D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our ability to execute our business strategy and grow on our agricultural logistics businesses and rural-urban migration and city re-development business will depend in part on the success of the PRC’s agricultural industry and the economic growth and implementation of government policies, and if the PRC agricultural industry and economy do not continue to grow at a strong rate or the local government fails to implement its policies, our business may suffer. We have established logistics platforms in Tieling, Liaoning Province called “China Northeast Logistics City—Tieling”, Dezhou, Shandong Province called “China Northeast Logistics City—Dezhou”, Hengyang, Hunan Province called “China Glorious City—Hengyang” and Zhoukou, Henan Province called “China Glorious City—Zhoukou”, which are available to regional and international traders based upon an open and free market system for the mutual benefit of sellers and buyers. The logistics platforms are designed to facilitate the marketing of products provided or desired by willing buyers and sellers. Agriculture products have risk exposure, including weather, climate and seasonal price fluctuations. Farmers are exposed to risks associated with output and input prices, production volume and risks associated with income from non-farm sources. In the past, we established a rural-urban migration and city re-development business in Qiqihar, Heilongjiang Province called “China Focus City—Qiqihar”, which was available to Qiqihar as well as regional traders and residents which was to be comprised of commercial, business, residential and governmental districts. China Focus City—Qiqihar was designed to accommodate the local government’s plan to relocate the administration center of Qiqihar. Following the disposal of China Focus City—Qiqihar in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, we have continued to carry out this business through existing locations. The rural-urban migration and city re-development business has risk exposure including change of local and national economic climates and government policies. Our results of operation may be significantly adversely affected by these risks. The PRC Government may introduce new “green laws” with environmental challenges that may have an adverse effect on our actual and prospective tenants and customers, and therefore could adversely affect our operations. There are few quantitative estimates of projected environmental degradation associated with intensive agricultural production. Yet environmental cleanup will pose a competing challenge for investment in agriculture. Abundant use of coal to meet the increasing demands for energy and rapid growth of cities with associated growth of automobiles and municipal waste have been large sources of incredibly high levels of air pollution in China. Acid rain and water use and pollution associated with industrialization and urbanization are other major sources of water constraint. Disposal of industrial waste and organic fertilizer runoffs has been the major source of water pollution. Yet the health impact has been generally contained due to the widespread availability of safe drinking water. Still, water pollution is increasing water shortages and increasing the cost of provision of drinking water since this often requires that people move to safer areas. 9 Table of Contents China’s per capita energy demand and increased use of automobiles associated with urbanization will critically shape the environmental prospects in China. Reduction in environmental pollution will require the PRC Government to encourage the replacement of outdated and environmentally polluting technologies, increasing energy efficiency and emission standards comparable to those used in Europe and the U.S., and price polluting industrial inputs to reflect the cost of pollution cleanup. The PRC Government would also need to consider imposing taxes on such items as coal, based on sulfur and ash content, investing in alternative technologies in public transport and domestic energy use, such as the greater use of gas for cooking, planning and regulating industrial, and public and household uses more effectively. Each of these events could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The results of our operations substantially depend on our ability to execute our business strategy and on economic growth in the regions of our trade center projects. The results of our operations substantially depend on the successful execution of our business strategy to attract and retain high quality tenants, achieve market rental rates and improve the surrounding infrastructure. Our success will also depend upon continuing growth in the economic activities region, as well as regions surrounding properties planned for future development, and our ability to compete with other similar businesses. We may face challenges in implementing our strategy, and our ability to achieve our goals may be adversely affected by various factors, some of which are beyond our control. If we are not able to execute our business strategy or successfully compete with other similar businesses, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to increase our revenues from servicing and assignments of development rights, sales or leases of properties or achieve satisfactory rental rates from period to period. Our revenues from the sales of trade center units in fiscal year 2013 and fiscal year 2014 were HK$273.4 million and HK$205.0 million, respectively. Our revenue from the leases of properties decreased from HK$5.0 million in the fiscal year 2013 to HK$4.8 million in the fiscal year 2014 and our revenue from property management services decreased from HK$6.4 million in the fiscal year 2013 to HK$5.4 million in the fiscal year 2014. Our revenue from servicing and assignments of development rights in the fiscal year 2014 was HK$171.8 million. Our revenue in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 was HK$1,400.7 million, which includes revenue from sales of trade centers units, leases of properties, property management services and hotel income of HK$1,393.9 million, HK$2.9 million, HK$2.8 million and HK$1.1 million, respectively. Each servicing and assignment of development rights was negotiated with independent third parties on a case by case basis and the premium may be significantly affected by economic climates and other factors at the time of negotiation. We therefore cannot assure you that, in the future, we will be able to negotiate a premium that is higher than a rate we have already achieved in previous periods, nor we will be able to increase the number of successful negotiations with independent third parties. Our certain commission lease arrangements provide us the right to lease to, and receive rental income from, third parties for the trade center units that we have sold to the purchasers of these units, for a period of approximately three years. However, if we are unable to lease the trade center units for which we have entered into such commission lease arrangements, we will not receive any rental income from these units. Under these commission lease arrangements, we are not obligated to pay any rent during the three-year period. Such transactions are accounted for as a sale and operating leaseback given that as part of the sale transaction, the Company disposes of substantially all risks and rewards of owning the property. In concluding that substantially all risks and rewards of owning the property have been transferred, the Company considers the short period of the lease and the expected future rentals it could earn by letting out these properties, which are insignificant relative to the value of the property. We cannot assure you that, in the future, we will be able to charge sufficiently high rental rates. As a result, failure to lease the trade center units or to lease the units at satisfactory rental rates would adversely affect our profits for the applicable period. 10 Table of Contents Some of our buyers may not be able to obtain mortgages from banks and the inability to secure financing may adversely impact the Company’s stock price. Currently a significant portion of our sales are settled by one-off payment from buyers. The remaining buyers purchase spaces in our trade centers through mortgages with banks with typically at least a 50% down payment. Due to the volume involved and the mortgage approval process, some of the buyers that intend to purchase spaces in our trade centers through mortgage financing may not be successful in their mortgage applications for a variety of reasons. In the event that the applicants do not successfully receive mortgage financing, the Company may not be able to recover its accounts receivable from those buyers on time, the Company’s financials may be impaired, and the Company’s stock price may go down. We currently rely on China Glorious City—Zhoukou and China Glorious City—Hengyang for all of our rural-urban migration and city re-development business revenues and China Northeast Logistics City—Dezhou and China Northeast Logistics City—Tieling for all of our agricultural logistics business revenues. We may be unsuccessful in expanding our projects in these cities, and if we are unsuccessful, our stock price may fall. Although our agricultural logistics business has properties under development and planned for future development, we currently rely on China Northeast Logistics City—Dezhou and China Northeast Logistics City—Tieling for our agricultural logistics business revenues, and China Glorious City—Zhoukou and China Glorious City—Hengyang for our rural-urban migration and city re-development business. These revenue sources may entail a higher level of risk as compared to other operators of trade centers that have revenue-generating properties spread over several different locations or have a more diverse range of property investments. In the event of a circumstance which adversely affects the operations or business of China Glorious City—Zhoukou, China Glorious City—Hengyang, China Northeast Logistics City—Dezhou and China Northeast Logistics City—Tieling, or their attractiveness to tenants and developers, we will not have income from other properties in our agricultural logistics business and rural-urban migration and city re-development business to mitigate any ensuing loss. A concentration of investments in only few locations will cause us to be highly susceptible to a downturn in regional agricultural, property or logistics industry. In addition, any property damage at any one of China Glorious City—Zhoukou, China Glorious City—Hengyang, China Northeast Logistics City—Dezhou and China Northeast Logistics City—Tieling, resulting from fire or other causes, or a downturn in the industrial materials, agricultural or manufacturing industries in China, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we cannot assure that China Glorious City—Zhoukou, China Glorious City—Hengyang, China Northeast Logistics City—Dezhou and China Northeast Logistics City—Tieling will continue to attract tenants or developers to generate revenue, or that we will be successful in the future. Although we have projects planned for future development in fiscal years 2016, 2017 and 2018, we cannot assure that we will be able to successfully obtain state-owned land use rights for all or any portion of land necessary for the development of these projects, complete the development of these projects or generate revenue and net income from these projects at all or in amounts that we expect. If we are unable to obtain the state-owned land use rights for our properties planned for future development, we will not be able to develop these planned projects. Our Hong Kong subsidiary, China Metro-Rural Exchange Limited, signed a framework agreement with Tieling Municipal Government in 2006. Pursuant to this master agreement, the Tieling Municipal Government has identified land which is suitable for our development strategy to develop logistics platforms called “China Northeast Logistics City—Tieling”. Our Hong Kong subsidiary, China Metro-Rural Development Limited, signed a framework agreement with Dezhou Municipal Government in 2010. Pursuant to this framework agreement, the Dezhou Municipal Government has identified land which is suitable for our development strategy to develop logistics platforms called “China Northeast Logistics City—Dezhou”. 11 Table of Contents Our Hong Kong subsidiary, China Glorious City Development Limited, signed a framework agreement with Hengyang Municipal Government in 2012. Pursuant to this framework agreement, the Hengyang Municipal Government has identified land which is suitable for our development strategy to develop logistics platforms called “China Glorious City—Hengyang”. Our Hong Kong subsidiary, China Glorious City Investments Limited, signed a framework agreement with Zhoukou Municipal Government in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. Pursuant to this framework agreement, the Zhoukou Municipal Government has identified land which is suitable for our development strategy to develop logistics platforms called “China Glorious City—Zhoukou”. However, the signing of these master framework agreements do not guarantee that we will obtain the land identified therein, which will be transferred by public tender, auction or listing for sale. We cannot assure that the relevant land administration authorities will grant us the appropriate land use rights or issue the relevant land use right certificates in a timely manner, or at all. Moreover, we cannot assure that we will be successful in our bidding for the plots of land or that we will be able to obtain the land at our desired price. If we are not successful in our bidding for the plots of land in the future or fail to obtain land use rights for all or any portion of such land, we may not be able to develop any future projects. We may experience conflicts of interest with China South City Holdings Limited as a result of contracts to which certain of our major shareholders are a party. In addition to their investments in the Company, Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky, and his brother, Mr. Cheng Tai Po, own all of the outstanding shares of Accurate Gain Developments Limited and Proficient Success Limited. As of March 31, 2015, Accurate Gain Developments Limited, Proficient Success Limited, Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky, and Mr. Cheng Tai Po owned an aggregate of 2,451,116,976 of the 8,000,671,999 outstanding shares of China South City Holdings Limited, or China South City. China South City is a leading developer and operator of large-scale integrated logistics and trade centers in China, providing a comprehensive trading platform for domestic and international wholesale suppliers, buyers, manufacturers, distributors and end-users of products from raw materials to finished products. It sells and leases well-designed, high quality trade center units for businesses to display and sell their products. China South City also provides their clients with one-stop convenient supply chain solutions that include a full range of facilities and services such as offices, residential, conference and exhibition facilities, hotels and restaurants, warehousing and on-site logistics services, property management, e-commerce, banking, on-site government services in a bid to offer. Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky, is also the Co-Founder, Co-Chairman and Executive Director of China South City. In addition, Mr. Leung Moon Lam is a Co-Founder, Executive Director and the Chief Executive Officer of China South City. Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky, and Mr. Leung Moon Lam are each a party to a deed of option and undertaking with China South City. Pursuant to the deed of option and undertaking of which we are not a party, each of Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky, and Mr. Leung Moon Lam has granted to China South City an option to acquire all their respective effective interests in China Northeast Logistics City—Tieling at any time until September 30, 2014 or two years after the completion of the development of China Northeast Logistics City—Tieling (whichever is later) so long as: (i) for Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky, he remains a controlling shareholder of China South City or a director of China South City; or (ii) for Mr. Leung Moon Lam, he remains a director of China South City. China South City also has the right to buy all the respective interests held by Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky, and/or Mr. Leung Moon Lam in China Northeast Logistics City—Tieling before they are offered to any other third party. The price payable by China South City for such interests shall be determined with reference to the fair market value of such interests as determined by an internationally recognized valuer. 12 Table of Contents If China South City decides, after due consideration, not to exercise the option but wishes to develop China South City’s business operations in Liaoning Province, which may result in competition between China South City and China Northeast Logistics City—Tieling, China South City shall be entitled to, at any time within the above option period, require Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky (so long as he remains a controlling shareholder of China South City or a director of China South City), and/or Mr. Leung Moon Lam (so long as he remains a director of China South City) to dispose of all their respective interests in China Northeast Logistics City—Tieling to independent third parties as soon as practicable and in any event prior to the occurrence of any competition between China South City and China Northeast Logistics City—Tieling. As a result, there may be conflicts of interest presented by Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky’s, and Mr. Leung Moon Lam’s relationships with both us and China South City, which may adversely affect our opportunities, prospects and results of operations. In connection with our Merger in 2010, Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky and Mr. Leung Moon Lam sought confirmation from China South City as to whether China South City would opt to exercise its rights of first offer granted to it by both Mr. Cheng and Mr. Leung to purchase all their respective effective interests in China Northeast Logistics City—Tieling. Following that request, China South City held an extraordinary general meeting in which its independent shareholders approved, confirmed and ratified its non-exercise of the rights of first offer granted to it by each of Mr. Cheng and Mr. Leung in relation to the Merger. While the rights of first offer no longer exist with respect to the completed Merger, the option to exercise the rights of first offer remains in effect with respect to subsequent transfers until September 30, 2014 or two years after the completion of the development of China Northeast Logistics City—Tieling (whichever is later). Five of our PRC subsidiaries, China Northeast Logistics City Co. Ltd., or China Tieling Northeast, China Northeast Logistics City Dezhou Co., Ltd., or China Dezhou Northeast, China Glorious City (Hengyang) Co. Ltd., or China Hengyang Glorious, China Glorious City Investments (Zhoukou) Co., Ltd., or China Zhoukou Glorious Investments, and China Glorious City Strategic (Zhoukou) Co., Ltd., or China Zhoukou Glorious Strategic, are wholly foreign owned enterprises, and are subject to restrictions imposed by relevant PRC laws and regulations. China Tieling Northeast, China Dezhou Northeast, China Hengyang Glorious, China Zhoukou Glorious Investments and China Zhoukou Glorious Strategic were approved by their respective local authorities and filed with the PRC Ministry of Commerce as wholly foreign owned enterprises and, accordingly, are subject to regulations and restrictions applicable to foreign investment real estate enterprises, including, but not limited to, restrictions on their ability to obtain loans within and outside of the PRC, as well as restrictions on the conversion and sale of foreign exchange into their capital accounts. In addition, China Tieling Northeast, China Dezhou Northeast, China Hengyang Glorious, China Zhoukou Glorious Investments and China Zhoukou Glorious Strategic, as foreign investment real estate enterprises, are required to maintain registered capital levels at 50% or more of their total investment. As of March 31, 2015, the registered total investment in China Tieling Northeast, China Dezhou Northeast, China Hengyang Glorious, China Zhoukou Glorious Investments and China Zhoukou Glorious Strategic were US$49.80 million, US$49.90 million, US$59.99 million, US$39.99 million and US$19.99 million respectively, including registered capital of US$35.00 million, US$49.90 million, US$30.00 million, US$20.00 million and US$10.00 million respectively, representing approximately 70%, 100%, 50%, 50% and 50% of their respectively registered total investments. Currently, China Tieling Northeast, China Dezhou Northeast, China Hengyang Glorious, China Zhoukou Glorious Investments and China Zhoukou Glorious Strategic, our project companies for our properties planned for future development in Liaoning, Shandong, Hunan and Henan, are our only subsidiaries categorized as foreign investment real estate enterprises. 13 Table of Contents The cyclical nature of the real estate, agricultural and logistics industries could adversely affect our results of operations. Our results of operations are and will continue to be affected by the cyclical nature of the real estate, agricultural and logistics industries in the PRC. Property values and rents are affected by, among other factors, the supply and demand of comparable properties, interest rates, inflation, the rate of economic growth, tax laws and political and economic developments in the PRC. Our tenants and customers may be affected by the weather, climate, import and export of agricultural products and machines, price of the agricultural products and the fluctuation of the RMB. We cannot assure that property values and rents will not decline. In addition, increased competition brought by any additional supply could adversely affect trade center rents and occupancy rates as well as sales prices for new trade center units. Our trade centers depend upon the growing demand for industrial and agricultural materials and logistics services in China. A significant downturn in the PRC economy could adversely affect such demand, as well as the demand by suppliers for trade center units. Our results of operations may fluctuate from period to period due to variations in the proceeds received from sales and leases of trade center units and the fair value of our investment properties. Our results of operations tend to fluctuate from period to period depending upon the proportion and gross floor area, or GFA, of trade center units that are sold or leased, and when our projects in various stages of development are completed. We generally sell trade center units in the initial stages following completion of a project subject to the then-current market conditions. The number of trade centers that we are able to develop or complete during any given period is limited due to the substantial capital requirements for land acquisition and construction, as well as the lengthy development periods required before positive cash flows may be generated. In addition, the trade centers that we have developed or that are under development are large-scale, integrated, multi-phase projects to be developed over the course of several years. The selling prices and rental rates of trade center units are also subject to fluctuation, which may impact our sales proceeds and rental income and, accordingly, our revenues for any given period. In this regard, rental rates also vary among trade centers, according to market demand and dates of completion of the various trade centers, which affects rental rates because we generally offer tenants of newly completed trade center units preferential rental rates and rent-free periods in order to increase occupancy rates of these trade centers. Our rental rates for future periods may also be affected by similar incentive plans, and may be adversely affected by cyclical changes in market demand. Our results of operations may also fluctuate due to changes in the fair value of our trade center units and other facilities retained for rental income and capital appreciation of investment properties. We reassess the fair value of our investment properties each year. Property valuation typically requires the use of certain bases and assumptions with respect to a variety of factors, including supply and demand of comparable properties, the rate of economic growth in the location of the property, interest rates, inflation and political and economic developments in the PRC. Our operations are subject to extensive governmental regulations, and we are susceptible to changes in policies related to the real estate, agricultural and logistics industries in the PRC. In order to develop and operate a trade center development, we must obtain various permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals from the relevant administrative authorities at various stages of our trade center development, including land use rights documents, planning permits, construction permits and certificates or confirmation of completion and acceptance. Each approval is dependent on the satisfaction of certain conditions. 14 Table of Contents We cannot assure that we will be able to fulfill the pre-conditions necessary to obtain required governmental approvals, or that we will be able to adapt to new laws, regulations or policies that may come into effect from time to time with respect to the real estate, agricultural or logistics industries in general or the particular processes with respect to the grant of approvals in China. There may also be delays on the part of relevant administrative bodies in reviewing our applications and granting approvals. We may also be subject to periodic delays in our trade center development projects due to building moratoria in the areas in which it operates or plans to operate. If we are unable to obtain, or experience material delays in obtaining, the requisite governmental approvals, or if a building moratorium is implemented at one or more of our project sites, the development and sale of our projects could be substantially disrupted, which would result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we cannot assure that the implementation of laws and regulations by relevant authorities, or the interpretation or enforcement of such laws and regulations, will not cause us to incur additional costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face competition from other agricultural logistics and industrial materials trade centers. Our logistics city projects may face competition from other agricultural and industrial materials trade centers in China. The greatest concentration of industrial materials trade centers in China is in Pearl River Delta, Yangtze River Delta and the Manchuria area. The agricultural, industrial materials and finished goods featured at these competing trade centers include agricultural products, building materials, automobile and accessories and small goods. In addition, there may be an increase in supply of industrial materials trade centers in Guangdong and elsewhere in China, such as Shenzhen and Guangzhou, in the future. The greatest concentration of agricultural trade centers in China is in Manchuria and Shanghai. The agricultural products for which these trade centers compete include raw materials, corns, wheat, fertilizers, seeds and pesticides, agricultural machinery and tools, which are concentrated in the Manchuria area. The Shanghai Agriculture Equity Exchange (SAEE) was established on September 8, 2009, and the management anticipates that similar exchanges will be established in the future. This competition may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and buyers and may reduce the rents or prices we are able to charge. We cannot assure that we will prevail in competing with other trade center operators. Our inability to compete effectively could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Demand for our trade centers may be negatively affected by uncertainty regarding the recovery of the global economy, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Uncertainty regarding the recovery of the global economy may diminish the demand from many parts of the world and increase volatility in credit and equity markets. If these conditions persist or worsen, regardless of any efforts by various governmental authorities to stimulate the economy, they may adversely affect the availability, terms and cost of borrowings in the future, including financing necessary to complete our properties planned for future development, as well as the demand for our trade center units. Because our operations are capital intensive, and rely principally on cash flows from operations and bank borrowings, we cannot assure that the global economic downturn will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. The timing and nature of any recovery in the global economy remain uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future or that our results will not be adversely affected. Furthermore, if economic conditions become worse, the development of our properties could be adversely affected and materially delayed. 15 Table of Contents We may not be able to renew or re-obtain qualification certificates as real estate developers upon expiration of our current qualification certificate, which could adversely affect our business. Our subsidiaries located in Tieling City, Dezhou City, Hengyang City and Zhoukou City are required to certain qualification certificates to enable us to conduct business as real estate developers. On December 22, 2010, China Tieling Northeast obtained from the Liaoning Housing and Urban Rural Construction Bureau a Qualification Certificate for Real Estate Development Enterprise in Grade III with an effective term until December 21, 2013 allowing China Tieling Northeast to undertake property development in the PRC. On April 17, 2014, this qualification certificate was renewed for a term until March 3, 2017. After the expiration of its current qualification certificate, China Tieling Northeast will need to renew this qualification certificate or apply for a qualification certificate in a higher grade. The Dezhou Housing and Urban Rural Construction Bureau has granted interim qualification certificates to China Dezhou Northeast and Dezhou Northeast City Property Co., Ltd. confirming that China Dezhou Northeast and Dezhou Northeast City Property Co., Ltd. are allowed to undertake the development of properties in the PRC. The interim qualification certificate of China Dezhou Northeast expired on September 30, 2014, but the qualification certificate was then renewed until December 31, 2015. The interim qualification certificate of Dezhou Northeast City Property Co., Ltd. expired on June 30, 2014 and currently we have no plan to further renew its qualification certificate as it is currently inactive. Upon expiration of the interim qualification certificate, China Dezhou Northeast will be required to renew its qualification certificate. The Hunan Housing and Urban Rural Construction Bureau has granted an interim qualification certificate to China Hengyang Glorious confirming that China Hengyang Glorious is allowed to undertake the development of properties in the PRC. The interim qualification certificate of China Hengyang Glorious expired on January 23, 2015, but the qualification certificate was then renewed until January 23, 2016. Upon expiration of the interim qualification certificate, China Hengyang Glorious will be required to renew its qualification certificate. The Zhoukou Housing and Urban Rural Construction Bureau has granted interim qualification certificates to China Zhoukou Glorious Investments, China Zhoukou Glorious Strategic and Zhoukou Huayu Industries Co., Ltd. confirming that China Zhoukou Glorious Investments, China Zhoukou Glorious Strategic and Zhoukou Huayu Industries Co., Ltd. are allowed to undertake the development of properties in the PRC. The interim qualification certificates of China Zhoukou Glorious Investments and China Zhoukou Glorious Strategic will expire on July 8, 2017. The interim qualification certificate of Zhoukou Huayu Industries Co., Ltd. expired on July 8, 2015 and the entity is in the process of renewing it. Upon expiration of the interim qualification certificates, China Zhoukou Glorious Investments and China Zhoukou Glorious Strategic will be required to renew their qualification certificates. We cannot assure that these entities will be able to renew the current qualification certificates or obtain a new qualification certificates in a timely manner, or at all. If these entities or other project companies for our future projects are unable to renew the current qualification certificates or obtain new qualification certificates, they may not be permitted by the PRC Government to continue to engage in property development activities associated with the development of their integrated logistics trade center business, which would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The appraisal value of our properties may materially differ from the value we could receive in an actual sales transaction. Property valuations include a subjective determination of certain factors relating to the properties, such as their relative market position, their financial and competitive strengths, location and their physical condition. Further, the valuation of the properties is not an indication of, and does not guarantee, a sale price corresponding to such valuation, currently or in the future. Unforeseen changes in a particular integrated logistics and trade center development or in general or local economic conditions could affect the value of our properties, and the resulting amounts we obtain may be materially lower than the amount set forth in the valuations. 16 Table of Contents Potential liability for environmental problems could result in substantial costs. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations during the construction of our development projects. The particular environmental laws and regulations which apply to any given project development site vary greatly according to the site’s location, the site’s environmental condition, the present and former uses of the site, as well as adjoining properties. Environmental laws and conditions may result in project delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs and can prohibit or severely restrict project development activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. In addition, we cannot predict the impact that unforeseeable environmental contingencies or new or changed laws or regulations may have on us or our trade center projects. As required by PRC law, independent environmental consultants have conducted environmental impact assessments at all of our construction projects. Although the environmental investigations conducted to date have not revealed any environmental liability that would be expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, it is possible that these investigations did not reveal all environmental liabilities or their extent, and there may be material environmental liabilities of which we are unaware. Upon completion of each project, the relevant environmental authorities will inspect the site to ensure compliance with all applicable environmental standards and prepare a report to confirm such compliance. We cannot assure that such internal control procedures will be effective in preventing non-compliance. If any portion of the project is found to be non-compliant with relevant environmental standards or if we are unable to obtain necessary licenses for releasing contaminants, it may be subject to suspension of a portion of our operations as well as fines and penalties. Sales of our properties are subject to land appreciation tax and income tax. Our sales of trade center units and residential properties are subject to land appreciation tax in the PRC. In addition, sales of properties in our properties planned for future development may be subject to land appreciation tax. Land appreciation tax is payable on the gain, representing the balance of the proceeds received on such sale, after deducting various prescribed items, including sums paid for acquisition of land use rights, the direct costs and expenses of the development of the land and construction of buildings and supplementary facilities or the appraised price of any previous buildings and structures existing on the land and taxes related to the assignment of the real property. Under applicable PRC laws and regulations, land appreciation tax is chargeable on the gain at progressive rates ranging from 30% to 60%. Certain exemptions may be available for the sale of ordinary residential properties if the appreciation of land value does not exceed 20% of the total deductible items as provided in the relevant tax laws. 17 Table of Contents On December 28, 2006, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice on Administration of the Settlement of Land Appreciation Tax of Property Development Enterprises, or the LAT Notice, which became effective on February 1, 2007. The LAT Notice provides that land appreciation tax should be settled in stages during a real estate development project and sets forth, among other things, methods of calculating land appreciation tax and a time frame for settlement of land appreciation tax. We have accrued all land appreciation tax payable on our property sales and transfers in accordance with the progressive rates specified in relevant tax laws mentioned above. We have paid such land appreciation tax expenses based on the total sales amount of the contracts it entered into with purchasers of trade center units for each fiscal year at the rates of ranging from 1.5% to 3% set by the local municipal tax authorities. As of March 31, 2014, we in aggregate paid land appreciation tax to the local municipal tax authorities an accumulated amount of HK$61.2 million and we made an accumulated provisions for land appreciation in the amounts of HK$107.8 million. Except for China Northeast Logistics City—Dezhou, the relevant tax authorities have yet to commence the assessment of our land appreciation taxes in order to collect the additional tax payments from it. During the fiscal year, year ended March 31, 2015, China Northeast Logistics City—Dezhou has completed a final assessment for land appreciation tax for one of its projects. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, we paid land appreciation tax to the local municipal tax authorities in the amount of HK$65.3 million which included an additional land appreciation tax of HK$30.3 million assessed for one of the projects at China Northeast Logistics City—Dezhou, and made a provision in the amount of HK$173.9 million. Our cash flows and financial condition will be affected if the PRC tax authorities do proceed to collect the land appreciation tax for which we have made provisions. In addition, provisioning for land appreciation tax requires our management to use a significant amount of judgment with respect to the appreciation of land value and the allowability of deductible items for income tax purposes. If the land appreciation tax provisions we have made are substantially lower than the actual land appreciation tax amounts assessed by the tax authorities, our results of operations and cash flows will be materially and adversely affected. We may be required to forfeit land to be developed if it does not comply with the terms of our land grant contract. Under PRC laws, if a developer fails to develop land according to the terms of its land grant contract (including those relating to payment of fees, land use or the time for commencement and completion of the development of the land), the relevant land administration authorities may issue a warning to or impose a penalty on the developer or require the developer to forfeit the land. Further, if the development is delayed for longer than one year, the developer may be restricted from bidding for any new land. Thus, if we were to delay development on the lands acquired for China Northeast Logistics City—Tieling, China Northeast Logistics City—Dezhou, China Glorious City—Hengyang and China Glorious City—Zhoukou (and if these restrictions were applied to us), we may be restricted from bidding for other land designated to us for development. We have not received such a warning or been subject to such a penalty or threat of forfeiture in the past. However, we cannot assure that circumstances leading to possible forfeiture of land or delays in the completion of the above projects will not occur in the future. In addition, although the local governments are responsible in the framework agreements for relocating existing residents on the land and associated relocation expenses, the local governments may experience delays in their negotiation process with the existing residents of the land which may result in delays in the development of any future properties by us. With respect to any future properties of ours, we will be responsible for land payments only following the successful relocation of existing residents by and at the cost of the local governments. 18 Table of Contents We may not be able to commence or complete our properties planned for future real estate projects on time or within budget. Our real estate projects involve acquiring land use rights for large plots of land, many of which have existing structures and residents, from municipal and provincial governments of the PRC. Other properties we may develop in the future may also involve similar circumstances. Acquiring these development rights, converting them into land use rights and committing the financial and managerial resources to develop the land involve significant risks. Before a real estate development project generates any revenue, we must make a variety of material expenditures, including to acquire the development rights and to construct the required infrastructure. It generally takes several years for a planned real estate project to generate revenue, and we cannot assure you that our real estate projects will achieve positive cash flow. As a result, our current and future real estate development activities may be exposed to the following risks: • we may lease or sell developed properties at below expected rental rates or sales prices, and we may experience delays in the sale or leasing of developed properties; • we may be unable to complete construction of our real estate projects on schedule, or on budget, due to a variety of factors including shortages of materials, equipment, technical skills and labor, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, labor disputes, disputes with contractors and sub-contractors, accidents, changes in government priorities and policies, changes in market conditions, delays in the relocation process, delays in obtaining the requisite licenses, permits and approvals from the relevant authorities and other problems and circumstances, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs; • occupancy rates, rents and sales prices at our real estate properties may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, and may result in our investments being less profitable than we expected or not profitable at all; • the services rendered by our contractors may not always meet our quality requirements, and negligence or poor work quality by any contractors may result in defects in our buildings or trade center units, which could in turn cause us to suffer financial losses, harm our reputation or expose us to third-party claims; • since it normally takes several years for us to complete a real estate project, we expect that we will be affected by increases in the costs of construction materials and the costs of other goods and services, most significantly labor costs; • we may delay, or change the structure of, real estate projects and as a result we may lose deposits paid to participate in the land tender process or fail to recover expenses already incurred; and • we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, required zoning, land use, building, occupancy, and other governmental permits, rights and authorizations, which could result in increased costs with respect to a project. The occurrence of any of these circumstances, most of which are beyond our control, could delay the completion of our real estate projects, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which in turn could cause the market value of our shares to decline. 19 Table of Contents We may not be able to obtain adequate funding for our property under development or any properties planned for future development. To date, for investment activities, we have relied primarily on bank borrowings and other loans for our funding and liquidity requirements; and to a lesser extent on cash inflows from operations. For further information on our available funding and liquidity resources, please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” As of March 31, 2015, we had net current assets of HK$981.6 million and the outstanding balance of our total indebtedness (including trade payables, other payables and accruals, excluding shareholder’s loans and loans from a non-controlling interest) amounted approximately HK$3,436.4 million, which included primarily bank and other borrowings, trade payables, other payables and accruals and convertible bonds in the amounts of HK$1,149.7 million, HK$1,679.2 million and HK$607.5 million, respectively. Approximately HK$621.7 million of our total bank and other borrowings were due within one year or on demand and approximately HK$528.0 million were due within a period of more than one year but not exceeding five years. The projected total investment for China Northeast Logistics City—Tieling, China Northeast Logistics City—Dezhou, China Glorious City—Hengyang and China Glorious City—Zhoukou could be up to an amount of approximately US$2 billion, US$5 billion, US$2 billion and US$4 billion, respectively. We also have available cash flow from our operations, but such amounts are not likely to be sufficient to fund our future development requirements. Due to the nature of our trade center development business, it may from time to time experience periods of net cash outflows, when imbalances may arise between the timing of cash inflows from rentals and sales of trade center units and our cash outflows relating to the construction of properties and purchases of state-owned land use rights. We may require additional bank borrowings and, if necessary, offerings of debt and equity securities for a significant portion of our liquidity requirements to finance the construction costs of these projects, which are expected to be completed in stages. We cannot assure that we will be able to obtain additional financing at competitive costs, or at all. In addition, although we have not experienced any difficulties in the past, we may not be able to renew our existing loan facilities granted by banks in the PRC on satisfactory terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain necessary additional financing or renew existing loan facilities, we will not be able to complete future projects, and our business development could be severely disrupted. We cannot assure that we will be able to obtain sufficient funding to finance intended purchases of land use rights, develop future projects or meet other capital needs as and when required at a commercially reasonable cost or at all. Failure to obtain adequate funding at a commercially reasonable cost may limit our ability to commence new projects or to continue the development of existing projects or may increase our borrowing costs. In previous years, the PRC Government introduced a number of measures and regulations to restrict the ability of property developers to raise capital through external financing and other methods. Because the local authorities treat our project companies, as real property developers, we have been subject to these measures and regulations with respect to China Tieling Northeast, China Dezhou Northeast, China Hengyang Glorious, China Zhoukou Glorious Investments, China Zhoukou Glorious Strategic and Zhoukou Huayu Industries Co., Ltd. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. As of March 31, 2015, our debt-to-equity ratio (total bank and other borrowings and convertible bonds/total equity) was approximately 124.7%. We may incur additional indebtedness to complete additional projects and grow our supporting infrastructure, and the amount of such additional indebtedness may be substantial. We will face more risks if we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt. For example, the additional debt could: • limit our ability to satisfy our obligations under our borrowings; • increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; 20 Table of Contents • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to servicing and repaying our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund project developments, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our businesses and the industry in which we operate; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or exploring business opportunities; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • limit, along with the restrictive covenants of our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds or make guarantees; and • increase the cost of additional financing. Our ability to generate sufficient cash to satisfy our outstanding and future debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by then prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We anticipate that our operating cash flow will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating expenses and to service our debt obligations as they become due. However, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow for these purposes. If we are unable to service our total indebtedness, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness or seeking additional equity capital. These strategies may not be implemented on satisfactory terms, if at all. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our loan agreements, there could be a default under the terms of these agreements, which could cause repayment of our debt to be accelerated. The bank loan agreements of our PRC subsidiaries contain a number of significant restrictive covenants. These covenants restrict, among other things, our PRC subsidiaries’ ability and the ability of their subsidiaries to incur additional debt or make guarantees, incur liens, pay dividends or distributions on its or its subsidiaries’ capital stock, prepay certain indebtedness, sell or transfer property or assets, make investments and merge or consolidate with another company. If our PRC subsidiaries are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in its current or future loan and other agreements, there could be a default under the terms of these agreements. In the event of a default under these agreements, the holders of the debt could terminate their commitments to lend to our PRC subsidiaries, accelerate the outstanding debt and/or terminate the agreements, as the case may be. If the underlying obligation relates to our PRC subsidiaries’ secured borrowings, the lender can enforce the mortgages over the property securing the defaulted loan. If any of these events occur, our PRC subsidiaries cannot assure that their assets and cash flows would be sufficient to repay all of their indebtedness, or that they would be able to obtain alternative financing on terms that are favorable or acceptable to our PRC subsidiaries. Our PRC subsidiaries are not currently in breach of any of these covenants. In addition, the terms and conditions of convertible bonds we issued during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, contained a number of significant restrictive covenants as well as financial covenants. These covenants restricted our ability and our non-PRC incorporated subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional secured debts, incur liens, pay dividends distribution on its capital stock, prepay certain indebtedness, sell or transfer assets and merge or consolidate with another company. If we are unable to comply with these restrictions and covenants, there could be a default under the terms of these convertible bonds. In the event of default under these convertible bonds, the holder of the convertible bonds could accelerate the repayment of these convertible bonds. If this occurs, we cannot assure that our assets and cash flows would be sufficient to repay all of our indebtedness, or that we would be able to obtain alternative financing on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. 21 Table of Contents We have obtained waivers from the holders of these convertible bonds in prior years in respect of any non-compliance of covenants for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013, 2014 and 2015. No waiver has been obtained for subsequent periods as of July 24, 2015 as it is uncertain as to whether a waiver is required. We depend on China Metro-Rural Limited’s founding shareholders. Our business and growth prospects may be severely disrupted if we lose the support and service of all or any one of them. Our success and growth depends on the efforts of the founding shareholders of the China Metro-Rural Limited (Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky and Mr. Leung Moon Lam). These founding shareholders are critical to our success because of their vision for us and their industry knowledge and relationships. If we were to lose their support, our relationships with bankers, government officials, potential tenants and industry personnel could be adversely affected. We may not be able to replace these founding shareholders easily or at all. As a result, the loss of any of these founding shareholders, whether because any one or more of them become unwilling to continue in their present capacities with us, develop disagreements between each other, leave to join a competitor or form a competing business, or other reasons, would severely disrupt our business and growth prospects. We depend on our senior management and other important staff members, as well as on our ability to attract and retain qualified management personnel. We depend on the efforts and skill of our senior management and other important staff members. As a result, our future success depends to a significant extent on the continuing service and coordination of these individuals, who are not obligated to remain employed with us. Our success also depends on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain suitably skilled and qualified employees with the requisite industry expertise. The loss of any member of our senior management team and our other employees could have a material adverse effect on our business if we are unable to find suitable replacements in a timely manner. Competition for such personnel is intense, and any failure to recruit and retain the necessary personnel or the loss of a significant number of employees at any time could harm our business and prospects. We may suffer losses caused by natural disasters or accidents and these losses may not be covered by insurance. Our business may be adversely affected due to the occurrence of typhoons, severe storms, floods, wildfires, earthquakes or other natural disasters, or accidents (including fire or explosion) or similar events in the areas where we operate our trade centers. We do not carry any property insurance. Should a loss occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from the property. Nevertheless, we would remain obligated for any bank borrowings or other financial obligations related to the property. It is also possible that if we were to obtain insurance, third-party insurance carriers would not be able to maintain reinsurance sufficient to cover any losses that may be incurred. Any material uninsured loss could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are a holding company and rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our funding requirements. As a holding company, we depend upon the receipt of dividends from our subsidiaries to pay dividends to our shareholders and satisfy our obligations. The ability of our direct and indirect subsidiaries to pay dividends to their shareholders (including us) is subject to relevant shareholders’ agreements or constitutional documents and restrictions contained in the loan agreements of such subsidiaries or other instruments. 22 Table of Contents In addition, the ability of our subsidiaries in the PRC to pay dividends to their shareholders is subject to the requirements of PRC law. PRC regulations permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Dividends may not be paid until cumulative prior years’ losses are made up. As a result, if our subsidiaries in the PRC incur losses, such losses may impair their ability to pay dividends or other distributions to us, which would restrict our ability to pay dividends and to service our indebtedness. Our PRC subsidiaries are required to make monthly contributions to the social security plan and the housing reserve fund maintained for their employees, consisting of pension benefits, personal injury insurance, maternity insurance and medical and unemployment benefits. In addition, some of our PRC subsidiaries may be required to set aside at least 10% of their after-tax profits based on PRC accounting standards in accordance with their articles of association and PRC law each year to their PRC statutory reserve until the cumulative amount of such reserve reaches 50% of their registered capital. As of March 31, 2015, we have PRC statutory reserve of approximately HK$143,070,000 for our PRC subsidiaries. Any occurrence of avian influenza or other widespread public health problems could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In December 2003, January 2004, March 2013 and November 2014, there were media reports regarding the spread of the avian influenza, among birds and in particular poultry, as well as some isolated cases in countries outside Hong Kong and PRC of transmission of the virus to humans. We cannot assure that there will not be a serious outbreak of a contagious disease in the PRC in the future. A renewed outbreak of SARS, pandemic avian influenza or other widespread public health problems in the PRC could have a material adverse effect on the PRC economy and our property market generally, and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Restrictions on foreign currency exchange may limit our ability to obtain and remit foreign currency or to utilize our revenues effectively. We currently receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi through our ownership and operation of China Glorious City—Zhoukou, China Glorious City—Hengyang, China Northeast Logistics City—Dezhou and China Northeast Logistics City—Tieling. However, certain of our expenses, including labor costs for our employees in Hong Kong, rental expenses for our office space in Hong Kong and advertising expenses for advertising in Hong Kong and overseas media are denominated in foreign currencies, mostly Hong Kong dollars and U.S. dollars. As a result, any restriction on currency exchange may limit our ability to use revenues generated in Renminbi to pay our foreign currency denominated expenses and service and repay our foreign currency denominated indebtedness. Our ability to satisfy our foreign currency denominated debt obligations depends upon the ability of our subsidiaries incorporated in the PRC to obtain and remit sufficient foreign currency. Our subsidiaries incorporated in the PRC must present certain documents to the designated foreign exchange bank before they can obtain and remit foreign currency out of the PRC (including, in the case of dividends, evidence that the relevant PRC taxes have been paid and, in the case of shareholder loans, evidence of the registration of the loan with the relevant local office of the State Administration for Foreign Exchange). We cannot assure that our subsidiaries incorporated in the PRC will not encounter difficulty in the future when undertaking these activities. If our PRC subsidiaries are unable to remit dividends to us, we would be unable to make payments of interest and/or principal on our foreign currency denominated indebtedness. We have exposure to general real estate investment risks. Real estate investments, like many other types of long-term investments, have historically experienced significant fluctuations in value, and specific market conditions and cycles may result in occasional or permanent reductions in the value of our investments. Property cash flows and the marketability and value of real property will depend on many factors beyond our control, including, without limitation: • adverse changes in international, national, regional and local economic and market conditions; • changes in interest rates or financial markets; 23 Table of Contents • fluctuating local real estate conditions and changes in local laws and regulations; • changes or promulgation and enforcement of governmental regulations relating to land use and zoning, environmental, occupational and safety matters; • changes in real estate tax rates and other operating expenses; • existence of uninsured or uninsurable risks; and • natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism. The cyclical nature of the real estate industry could adversely affect our results of operations. The results of our real estate operations are affected by the cyclical nature of the real estate industry in the PRC. Property values and rents are affected by, among other factors, supply and demand of comparable properties, interest rates, unemployment rates, inflation, the rate of economic growth, tax laws and political and economic developments in the PRC. We cannot assure you that property values and rents will not decline in the future. A significant downturn in demand for our units would result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to extensive governmental regulations, and we are susceptible to changes in policies related to the real estate market in the PRC. In order to develop and operate our projects, we must obtain various permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals from the relevant administrative authorities at various stages of development, including land use rights documents, planning permits, construction permits, and certificates or confirmations of completion and acceptance. Each approval is dependent on the satisfaction of certain pre-conditions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to fulfill the pre-conditions necessary to obtain required governmental approvals, or that we will be able to adapt to new laws, regulations or policies that may come into effect from time to time with respect to the real estate market in general or the particular processes with respect to the grant of approvals in China. There may also be delays on the part of relevant administrative bodies in reviewing our applications and granting approvals. If we fail to obtain, or experience material delays in obtaining, the requisite governmental approvals, the development, sale and lease of our projects could be substantially disrupted, which would result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our principal shareholder has substantial control over us and can affect decisions made by our shareholders. As of July 1, 2015, our principal shareholder, Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky, together with his affiliates, controls 43,082,427 of our outstanding ordinary shares and 100,000 of our outstanding preferred shares, which together represented 46,273,652, or 60.30%, of our outstanding voting shares. Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky has the requisite voting power to exert substantial influence over actions which require shareholder approval and generally to direct our affairs, including decisions regarding the election of directors, mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of the Company and might reduce the price of our shares. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. 24 Table of Contents Because we do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, you must rely on the appreciation in price of our ordinary shares for a return on your investment. Except for the Distribution, we have never declared or paid any dividends on our ordinary shares. We intend to retain any future earnings to finance the growth and development of our business and do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. Any dividends paid will be solely at the discretion of our Board of Directors, and the amount of any dividends will depend on various factors, including, without limitation, market conditions, our strategic plans and prospects, our business opportunities, our financial condition and operating results, working capital requirements and anticipated cash needs, contractual restrictions and obligations, payments by subsidiaries of cash dividends to us and legal, tax and regulatory restrictions, and other factors that our directors deem significant from time to time. Accordingly, the return on your investment in us will likely depend entirely upon any future price appreciation of our ordinary shares. Our ordinary shares may not appreciate in value or maintain the price at which you purchased units. You may not realize a return on your investment and may even lose the entire amount of your investment. It may be difficult to effect service of process upon us or our directors or to enforce any judgments obtained from non-PRC courts, and it therefore may be difficult for you to resolve any grievance you have with us. Our operations are substantially conducted and substantially all of our assets are located within China. Our directors reside in Hong Kong and China, where substantially all of their assets are located. Investors may experience difficulties in effecting service of process upon us, our directors or our senior management in China and it may not be possible to effect such service of process outside China. In addition, our PRC legal counsel has advised us that China does not have treaties with the United States and many other countries providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of court judgments. Therefore, recognition and enforcement in China of judgments of a court in the United States or certain other jurisdictions may be difficult or impossible. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares The market price and trading volume of our ordinary shares may be volatile. The market price of our ordinary shares may become highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, trading volume in our ordinary shares may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our ordinary shares include, among other things: actual or anticipated changes in our current or future financial performance and general market and economic conditions. We cannot assure you that the market price of our ordinary shares will not fluctuate or decline significantly. Future sales of our ordinary shares could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of ordinary shares, or the availability of shares for future sales, on the market price of our ordinary shares. Sales of substantial amounts of ordinary shares, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our ordinary shares. In addition, a large supply of saleable ordinary shares, such as those underlying warrants issued in our May 2011 offering and August 2011 placements, those underlying convertible bonds and warrants issued in our August 2012 placement, or those underlying convertible bonds issued in our December 2013, January 2014 and March 2014 placements or other shares eligible for future sale, may adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our ordinary shares. 25 Table of Contents Our convertible bonds issued in August 2012, December 2013, January 2014 and March 2014 could prevent the acquisition or sale of our business. The conversion price of the convertible bonds and the exercise price of the warrants issued in our August 2012 placement may be decreased if we issue securities below certain prices or if we fail to meet certain financial targets set forth in the warrants and convertible bonds. The exercise prices of the bonds issued in December 2013, January 2014 and March 2014 do not include this feature. The exercise of any of the convertible bonds and warrants could further dilute the holdings of existing shareholders. In addition, the issuance of our ordinary shares to the investors upon exercise of the offered warrants and convertible bonds could have an anti-takeover effect because such issuance will make it more difficult for, or discourage an attempt by, a party to obtain control of the Company by tender offer or other means. Such issuance of ordinary shares will increase the number of shares entitled to vote, increase the number of votes required to approve a change of control of the Company, and dilute the interest of a party attempting to obtain control of the Company. Risks Relating to Doing Business in the PRC Economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. All of our agricultural logistics business is conducted in, and all of our agricultural logistics revenues are derived from China. The economy of China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including, but not limited to: structure; governmental involvement; level of development; growth rate of gross domestic product, or GDP; capital re-investment; allocation of resources; control of foreign currency; and rate of inflation. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC Government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC Government. In addition, the PRC Government continues to play a significant role in regulating industries by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Policies and other measures taken by the PRC Government to regulate the economy could have a significant negative impact on economic conditions in China, with a resulting negative impact on our business. For example, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected by: • new laws and regulations and the interpretations of those laws and regulations; • the introduction of measures to control inflation or stimulate growth; • changes in the rate or method of taxation; or • the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversions and remittances abroad. 26 Table of Contents Previous macroeconomic measures taken by the PRC Government to manage economic growth could have adverse economic consequences, and recent fiscal stimulus measures may not be successful in offsetting a decline in the rate of economic growth in the PRC. In previous years, the PRC Government had periodically taken measures to slow economic growth to a more manageable level, in response to concerns about China’s historical high growth rate in industrial production, bank credit, fixed investment and money supply. These measures have included macroeconomic measures to control perceived over investment in the real property market. More recently, along with a decline in economic growth worldwide, the rate of growth of the PRC economy has slowed down. In 2014, China’s real GDP grew by a rate of an estimated 7.4% as compared to a rate of 7.7% and 7.75% in 2013 and 2012, respectively. In response to the recent global economic downturn, and a resulting slowdown in the PRC economy, the PRC Government has adopted increasingly flexible macroeconomic policies, including an announced fiscal stimulus package, aimed at offsetting the slowdown brought by the financial crisis. These policies include measures specifically designed to encourage development of the domestic property market, which represents a reversal on policies implemented since 2003 designed to tighten control on the real property market. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC Government’s fiscal stimulus package will be successful in offsetting the slowdown resulting from the current economic downturn and deterioration in the global credit markets, or that restrictive measures already in place will not adversely affect our business. The PRC legal system has inherent uncertainties that could negatively impact our business. Our business is operated through, and our revenues are generated by, our operating subsidiaries in the PRC. Substantially all of our assets are located in the PRC. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, the PRC Government has issued laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and their nonbinding nature, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, as the legal system in China develops, changes in such laws and regulations, their interpretation or their enforcement may have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks of fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Renminbi and foreign currencies. From 1994 until recently, the conversion of Renminbi into U.S. dollars was based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China, which were set daily based on the previous day’s PRC interbank foreign exchange market rate and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. On July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China announced a reform of its exchange rate system and revalued the Renminbi to RMB8.11 to US$1.00. Under the reform, the Renminbi would no longer be effectively linked to the United States dollar but instead would be allowed to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of foreign currencies. We cannot assure you that such exchange rate will not fluctuate widely against the U.S. dollar, Hong Kong dollar or any other foreign currency in the future. The PRC Government may adopt further reforms of its exchange rate system, including making the Renminbi freely convertible in the future. However, we cannot predict if or when these further reforms will occur. Although currently a substantial portion of our revenues, expenses and bank loans are denominated in Renminbi, we do have loans that are denominated in Hong Kong dollars and convertible bonds that are denominated in United States dollars. Fluctuation of the value of Renminbi will affect the amount of our non-Renminbi debt service in Renminbi terms since we have to convert Renminbi into non-Renminbi currencies to service our foreign debt. Since a substantial portion of income and profits are denominated in Renminbi, any appreciation of Renminbi will also increase the value of, and any dividends payable on, our shares in foreign currency terms. Conversely, any depreciation of Renminbi will decrease the value of, and any dividends payable on, our shares in foreign currency terms. 27 Table of Contents If the custodians or authorized users of controlling non-tangible assets of the Company, including corporate chops and seals, fail to fulfill their responsibilities or misappropriate or misuse these assets, the Company’s business and operations could be materially and adversely affected. Under PRC law, legal documents for corporate transactions, including contracts that the Company’s business relies on, are executed using the chops or seal of the signing entity or with the signature of a legal representative whose designation is registered and filed with the relevant branch of the Administration of Industry and Commerce (“AIC”). Although the Company usually utilizes chops to enter into contracts, the designated legal representatives of each of the Company’s PRC subsidiaries have the apparent authority to enter into contracts on behalf of such entities without chops and bind such entities. All designated legal representatives of the Company’s PRC subsidiaries are members of the Company’s senior management team who have signed employment agreements with the Company or its PRC subsidiaries under which they agree to abide by various duties they owe to the Company. In order to maintain the physical security of the Company’s chops, the chops are generally stored in secured locations accessible only by the authorized personnel in the legal or finance departments of each of the Company’s subsidiaries. The Company’s designated legal representatives generally do not have access to the chops, but if such designated legal representatives were to obtain the chops, in spite of these protections, the Company may encounter difficulties in maintaining control over the relevant entities. Although the Company has implemented internal control procedures to monitor the use of corporate chops, such procedures may not be able to prevent all instances of abuse or negligence. If any of the designated legal representatives obtains and misuses or misappropriates the Company’s chops and seals or other controlling intangible assets for whatever reason, the Company could experience disruption to its normal business operations. If a designated legal representative obtains control of the chops in an effort to obtain control over the entity, the Company or its PRC subsidiary would need to pass a new shareholder or board resolution to designate a new legal representative and the Company would need to take legal action to seek the return of the chops, apply for new chops with the relevant authorities, or otherwise seek legal redress for the violation of the representative’s fiduciary duties to the Company, which could involve significant time and resources and divert management attention away from the Company’s business. In addition, the affected entity may not be able to recover corporate assets that are sold or transferred out of the Company’s control in the event of such a misappropriation if a transferee relies on the apparent authority of the representative and acts in good faith. The audit report included in this Annual Report is prepared by an auditor who is not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Auditors of companies that are registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the “PCAOB”) and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because we have substantial operations within the PRC and the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections of the work of our auditors as it relates to those operations without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditor’s work related to our operations in China is not currently inspected by the PCAOB. This lack of the PCAOB inspections of audit work performed in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating audit work of any auditors that was performed in China including that performed by our auditors. As a result, investors may be deprived of the full benefits of the PCAOB inspections. 28 Table of Contents The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of audit work performed in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures as compared to auditors in other jurisdictions that are subject to the PCAOB inspections on all of their work. In May 2013, the PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the China Securities Regulatory Commission (“the CSRC”) and the PRC Ministry of Finance, which establishes a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations undertaken by the PCAOB, the CSRC or the PRC Ministry of Finance in the United States and the PRC, respectively. The PCAOB continues to be in discussions with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance to permit joint inspections in the PRC of audit firms that are registered with the PCAOB and audit PRC companies that trade on the U.S. exchanges. If additional remedial measures are imposed on the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms, including an affiliate of our independent registered public accounting firm, associated with administrative proceedings brought by the SEC alleging the firms’ failure to meet specific criteria set by the SEC, we could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. In December 2012, the SEC instituted administrative proceedings against the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms, including an affiliate of our independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that these firms had violated U.S. securities laws and the SEC’s rules and regulations thereunder by failing to provide to the SEC the firms’ work papers related to their audits of certain PRC-based companies that are publicly traded in the United States. On January 22, 2014, an initial administrative law decision was issued, sanctioning these accounting firms and suspending them from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The sanction will not take effect until there is an order of effectiveness issued by the SEC. Any Commission endorsement or other determination itself could be appealed by the accounting firms in the U.S. court system. On February 12, 2014, the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms initiated a review of the initial administrative law decision to the SEC. We were not and are not involved in the proceedings brought by the SEC against these accounting firms. On February 6, 2015, the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms each agreed to a censure and to pay a fine to the SEC to settle the dispute and avoid suspension of their ability to practice before the SEC and audit US-listed companies. The settlement required the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms to follow the SEC’s specified procedures and to seek to provide the SEC with access to the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms’ audit documents via the China Securities Regulatory Commission in response to future document requests by the SEC made through the China Securities Regulatory Commission. If potential document productions depart from the criteria pursuant to the SEC’s specified procedures, the SEC retains authority to impose a variety of additional remedial measures on the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms, depending on the nature of such departure. If the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms are subject to the additional remedial measures, because our auditor having its PRC-based affiliate carrying out audit procedures on our Mainland China operations, our ability to file our financial statements in compliance with SEC requirements could be impacted. Risk Related to U.S. Taxation There is a risk that we could be treated as a U.S. domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could result in a significant U.S. federal income tax liability to us. Section 7874(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, or Section 7874(b), generally provides that a corporation organized outside the United States which acquires, directly or indirectly, pursuant to a plan or series of related transactions substantially all of the assets of a corporation organized in the United States will be treated as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes if shareholders of the acquired corporation own at least 80% (of either the voting power or the value) of the stock of the acquiring corporation after the acquisition. If Section 7874(b) applied to the liquidation of Man Sang Holdings Inc. in 2009, then we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our worldwide taxable income following the liquidation. 29 Table of Contents We believe that under Section 7874(b), we should not be treated as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes because Man Sang Holdings Inc. transferred no assets to us (other than rights to a potential tax refund, which was insignificant). However, the IRS may assert that we are subject to U.S. federal income tax on our worldwide income after the liquidation. U.S. holders of our ordinary shares and warrants may suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a Passive Foreign Investment Company. There is a risk that we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our status as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to U.S. holders of our ordinary shares and warrants and may cause a reduction in the value of such shares and warrants. We will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which (i) at least 75% of our gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the average value of all of our assets produce or are held for the production of passive income. For this purpose, passive income includes dividends, interest, royalties and rents that are not derived in the active conduct of a trade or business. Based on the projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets, we do not believe we were a PFIC for the year ended March 31, 2015. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service or a U.S. court could determine that we are a PFIC in any year. If we are classified as a PFIC, U.S. holders of our ordinary shares and warrants could be subject to greater U.S. income tax liability than might otherwise apply, imposition of U.S. income tax in advance of when tax would otherwise apply, and detailed tax filing requirements that would not otherwise apply. The PFIC rules are complex and U.S. holders of our ordinary shares and warrants are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules to them in their particular circumstances. See “Material United States Federal Income Tax Consequences.” 