D. Risk Factors The risk factors below are associated with our company and our ADSs. Before purchasing our ADSs, you should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 20-F and, in particular, the risks described below. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our ADSs could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties below are not the only ones we face, but represent the risks that we believe are material. However, there may be additional risks that we currently consider not to be material or of which we are not currently aware and these risks could have the effects set forth above. Risks Related to Our Business Substantial leverage and debt service obligations may materially adversely affect our cash flow. We have substantial amounts of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2013, the principal amount of our external debt for bank loans, bonds, equipment financing, and loans from others amounted to approximately US$27.5 billion. In connection with the acquisition of Wind Telecom in April 2011, we incurred significant additional indebtedness to pay for the acquisition of Wind Telecom and to refinance debt of Wind Telecom entities that had to be refinanced because we acquired control. We refer to the acquisition of Wind Telecom in this Annual Report on Form 20-F as the “Wind Telecom Transaction.” For more information on the Wind Telecom Transaction, see “Item 4—Information on the Company—History and Development.” In addition to our debt existing before the Wind Telecom Transaction and the debt we incurred in connection with the Wind Telecom Transaction, in acquiring Wind Telecom we acquired entities with substantial debt that we did not refinance at the time, and most of this acquired debt either remains outstanding or has been refinanced (but not reduced in principal amount). Since the Wind Telecom Transaction, we have also incurred additional external debt through bank loans, bonds and equipment financing. As a result the leverage of the VimpelCom Group is substantial. Proceeds from debt obligations we have incurred or may incur are frequently loaned to our subsidiaries, including subsidiaries acquired in the Wind Telecom Transaction, and may be loaned by the borrowing subsidiaries to their subsidiaries. As a result, amounts we have received in incurring debt may not be available to us, or may not be repaid when needed, for support of our operations and payment of our debt service obligations. There can be no assurance that we will recover any amounts we lend to our subsidiaries. Furthermore, in the short to medium term we will not derive additional sources of cash flow or revenue from the Wind Telecom entities and will have to satisfy our debt service obligations from our operations in OJSC VimpelCom and Kyivstar. For more information regarding our outstanding indebtedness and the outstanding indebtedness of Wind Telecom entities, see “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financing Activities.” 13 Table of Contents Our substantial leverage, our lending to and refinancing of debt of our subsidiaries, including subsidiaries acquired in the Wind Telecom Transaction, and limits imposed by our debt obligations, including limits on subsidiaries we acquired in the Wind Telecom Transaction, could have significant negative consequences for our business. These factors could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for dividends, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, joint ventures and other purposes necessary for us to maintain our competitive position and placing us at a disadvantage in relation to competitors with less leverage and greater access to financial resources. These factors could also increase our vulnerability to, and limit our ability to respond to, general adverse economic and industry conditions, limit our ability to obtain additional financing, and increase the cost of such financing. We must generate sufficient net cash flow in order to meet the substantial debt service obligations which we have and may incur in the future, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those obligations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on a particular debt obligation, we would be in default under the terms of that debt, and the holders of that debt would be able to accelerate the maturity of that debt, which in turn could cause defaults under cross default provisions in our other debt obligations. Such defaults could also result in loss of any assets that secure defaulted debt. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in attempting to meet our obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans to alleviate liquidity constraints, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures or seeking additional capital. We cannot assure you that any refinancing or additional financing would be available on acceptable terms, or that assets could be sold, or if sold, that such sales would be on satisfactory terms, or that the proceeds realized from those sales or refinancing would be sufficient to meet our obligations or that such sales or refinancing could be effected in time to alleviate financial constraints. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance debt on commercially reasonable terms, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Covenants in our debt agreements could impair our liquidity and our ability to expand or finance our future operations. Agreements under which we borrow funds (as set forth in further detail in “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financing Activities”) contain a number of different covenants that impose on us certain operating and financial restrictions. Some of these covenants relate to our financial performance, such as the level of earnings, debt and assets and may have the effect of preventing us or our subsidiaries from incurring additional debt. Other covenants limit our ability, and that of certain of our subsidiaries, to create liens on assets, make acquisitions, dispose of assets, enter into business combinations or engage in certain activities with companies within our group. A failure to comply with these covenants would constitute a default under the relevant agreements, which could result in acceleration of debt under a relevant agreement, and such an acceleration could, in turn, trigger cross-acceleration defaults that would cause some or all of our debt to be in default, depending on which legal entity within our group experiences the default. This could also lead to secured creditors taking enforcement actions against pledged assets securing our debt. Such a default and acceleration of the debtor’s obligations under one or more of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and in particular on our liquidity and our shareholders’ equity. We may not be able to raise additional capital. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, including through debt financing. The actual amount of debt financing that we will need to raise will be influenced by the variety of factors that influence our revenues, profits and expenditures. These factors include the actual pace of customer growth and growth in usage over the period, the pace of technological development and consequent capital expenditures necessary to keep up with technological development, our acquisition plans, our plans for disposals and our ability to continue to generate sufficient amounts of revenue and ARPU growth. If we incur additional indebtedness, the related risks of leverage that we now face could increase. Specifically, we may not be able to generate enough cash to pay the principal, interest and other amounts due under our indebtedness. In addition, we may not be able to borrow money within the local or international capital markets on acceptable terms or at all. The sanctions recently imposed by the United States, European Union and other countries in connection with recent developments in Ukraine and Russia’s annexation of Crimea may also negatively affect our ability to raise external financing, particularly if the sanctions are broadened. As a result, we may be unable to make necessary or desired capital expenditures, to take advantage of investment opportunities, to refinance existing indebtedness or to meet unexpected financial requirements, and our growth strategy and liquidity may be negatively affected. This could cause us to be unable to repay indebtedness as it comes due, to delay or abandon anticipated expenditures and investments or otherwise limit operations, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 14 Table of Contents Furthermore, if credit ratings within our Group are downgraded, placed under surveillance or revised by rating agencies, our borrowing costs could increase and the access to the capital we need could be limited. Our credit ratings are based in part on factors over which we have no control, including conditions affecting the telecommunications industry in general or conditions affecting certain countries or regions in which we operate. Our credit ratings can change as a result of changing economic and market conditions, a deterioration in our results or performance or the ratings agencies’ perception of these or different factors. Any credit downgrade could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange loss and convertibility risks. A significant amount of our costs, expenditures and liabilities are denominated in U.S. dollars and Euros, including capital expenditures and borrowings, while a significant amount of our revenue is in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and Euro. As a result, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange loss risks related to the varying exchange rates of our local currencies against the U.S. dollar or Euro. Declining values of local currencies against the U.S. dollar or the Euro could make it more difficult for us to repay or refinance our U.S. dollar or Euro-denominated indebtedness or to purchase equipment and services. In Ukraine, for example, the recent political unrest and economic crisis, including international ratings agencies’ downgrading of Ukraine’s sovereign credit rating and significant capital outflows, have led to the weakening of the hryvnia since December 31, 2013. The Russian ruble has also fluctuated greatly since December 31, 2013, and may continue to be subject to volatility, potentially resulting in significant depreciation. Unless effectively hedged, foreign currency exchange risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively hedge currency fluctuations due to the cost or availability of hedging instruments. In addition, the existence or imposition of exchange controls or other similar restrictions on currency convertibility, including possible economic sanctions, in any of our geographic areas of operation could limit our ability to convert currencies in a timely manner or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and prospects. For more information about the market risks we are exposed to as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, see “Item 11—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and Notes 5 and 17 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 20-F. We may not realize the anticipated benefits from past, and any future, acquisitions, we may assume unexpected or unforeseen liabilities and obligations or incur greater than expected liabilities in connection with acquisitions and we may not be able to divest some of our activities as planned, in a timely manner or on terms and conditions acceptable to us. The actual outcome of our past, and any future, acquisitions and their effect on our company and its subsidiaries and the results of our operations may differ materially from our expectations as a result of the following factors, among others: • past and future compliance with the terms of the telecommunications licenses and permissions of the acquired companies, and their ability to obtain and maintain frequencies and numbering capacity; • past and future compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations (including, without limitation, tax, currency control, economic sanctions, anti-corruption and customs legislation); • unexpected or unforeseen liabilities or obligations or greater than expected liabilities incurred prior to or after the acquisition, including tax, customs, indebtedness and other liabilities; • the acquired company’s inability to comply with the terms of its debt and other contractual obligations; • the acquired company’s ability to obtain or maintain favorable interconnect terms; • our inability to extract anticipated synergies or to integrate an acquired business into our group in a timely and cost-effective manner; • changes to the incumbent management personnel of our acquired companies or the possible deterioration of relationships with employees and customers as a result of integration; • exposure to foreign exchange risks that are difficult or expensive to hedge; • the acquired company’s inability to protect its trademarks and intellectual property and to register trademarks and other intellectual property used by such company in the past; 15 Table of Contents • developments in competition within each jurisdiction, including the entry of new competitors or an increase in aggressive competitive measures by our competitors; • governmental regulation of the telecommunications industry in each jurisdiction, ambiguity in regulation and changing treatment of certain license conditions; • political, economic, social, legal and regulatory developments and uncertainties in each jurisdiction; and • claims by third parties challenging our ownership or otherwise. For information about our acquisitions, please see “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Investing Activities.” Furthermore, these acquisitions may result in additional financing needs which could adversely affect our financial leverage and our debt-to-equity ratio. Acquisitions may also lead to substantial increases in intangible assets, including goodwill. Our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 20-F reflect significant intangible assets, including goodwill. If we were to encounter continuing adverse business developments, including negative effects on our revenue, profits or cash or from foreign exchange rate developments, or if we were otherwise to perform worse than expected at the moment of an acquisition, then these intangible assets, including goodwill, might have to be written off, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The likelihood of such adverse business developments increases in times of difficult or uncertain macroeconomic conditions. Risk of goodwill write-downs is also discussed below under “—Risks Related to Our Markets—The international economic environment could have a material adverse effect on our business.” We may continue to pursue a strategy that includes additional expansion. Any future acquisitions or investments could be significant and in any case could involve risks inherent in assessing the value, strengths and weaknesses of such opportunities. Such acquisitions or investments may divert our resources and management time. We cannot assure you that any acquisition or investment could be made in a timely manner or on terms and conditions acceptable to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, our strategy contemplates improving operational excellence and cost management and reducing the ratio of our capital expenditure to revenue over time. This strategy includes network outsourcing and sharing, centrally led procurement, and a systematic approach to managing working capital and optimizing our capital structure. However, there can be no assurance that the full extent of the anticipated benefits will be realized within the envisaged timeline or at all. With respect to dispositions, we may not be able to divest some of our activities as planned, in a timely manner or on terms and conditions acceptable to us and the divestitures we do carry out could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and, potentially, our reputation. For example, we have announced our intention to divest our activities in the Central African Republic and Burundi but, as of the date this Annual Report on Form 20-F, have not been able to complete the sale of these operations. VimpelCom is a holding company and depends on the performance of its subsidiaries and their ability to make distributions to it. VimpelCom is a holding company and does not conduct any revenue-generating business operations of its own. Its principal assets are the equity interests it owns in its operating subsidiaries, either directly or indirectly. As a result, it is dependent upon cash dividends, distributions, loans or other transfers it receives from its subsidiaries in order to make dividend payments to its shareholders (including holders of ADSs), to repay any debt it may incur, and to meet its other obligations. In some instances, VimpelCom needs guarantees from its subsidiaries to incur debt. VimpelCom’s subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities. Any right that VimpelCom has to receive any assets of or distributions from any subsidiary upon its bankruptcy, dissolution, liquidation or reorganization, or to realize proceeds from the sale of the assets of any subsidiary, will be junior to the claims of that subsidiary’s creditors, including trade creditors. The ability of VimpelCom’s subsidiaries to pay dividends and make payments or loans to VimpelCom, and to guarantee VimpelCom’s debt, will depend on their operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, applicable covenants in debt agreements and corporate, tax and other laws and regulations. These covenants, laws and regulations include restrictions on dividends or limitations on repatriation of earnings under applicable local law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange restrictions in the jurisdictions in which VimpelCom’s subsidiaries operate. 16 Table of Contents VimpelCom has experienced significant examples of these limitations in its Italian and Algerian operations. In addition, VimpelCom’s subsidiaries operating under WIND Italy are restricted from paying dividends or making certain other payments to VimpelCom by existing covenants of the Wind Telecom Group, including in the senior facilities agreement entered into by WIND Italy and the senior notes and senior secured notes issued by Wind Acquisition Finance S.A. and guaranteed by WIND Italy. For more detail on the WIND Italy financings, see “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financing Activities.” Furthermore, our subsidiary in Algeria, Orascom Telecom Algérie S.p.A., or “OTA,” has been unable to repatriate certain dividends to foreign investors, including its parent company, during the pendency of the disputed tax assessment by the Algerian Directions des Grandes Entreprises (Tax Department for Large-Scale Companies, or “DGE”). In 2010, the Bank of Algeria effected an injunction that restricts all Algerian banks from engaging in foreign banking transactions on behalf of OTA, preventing OTA from transferring funds outside of Algeria, including by way of dividends or other distributions to GTH. For more information, see “—Legal and Regulatory Risks—The Algerian Government has made substantial tax and other claims against OTA which have harmed OTA’s business, and the Algerian Government has announced its intention to unilaterally acquire OTA from GTH” below. On April 18, 2014, we together with our subsidiary GTH entered into a share purchase agreement to settle our disputes with the Algerian Government and sell a non-controlling 51% interest in OTA to the Algerian National Investment Fund, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions precedent. One such condition precedent is the lifting of the Bank of Algeria injunction restricting all Algerian banks from engaging in foreign banking transactions on behalf of OTA. Although we expect the transaction to close by the end of 2014, there can be no certainty that the closing conditions will be satisfied or waived and that the transaction will be completed. For more information, see Note 28 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 20-F. We have a global strategy which is set by group leadership in our Amsterdam headquarters. For more information on our strategy, see “Item 4—Information on the Company—Strategy.” Management at our local operations is responsible for executing many aspects of our strategy. This can be made more challenging given the broad geographic span of our operations and great cultural diversity among our local operations, which can make it more difficult to implement and maintain effective internal communication and reporting across the group. Local management’s failure to execute our group strategy effectively or to comply with our policies, including internal controls over financial reporting, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our majority stake in an Egyptian public company may expose us to legal, regulatory and political risk and reputational harm. GTH, our subsidiary in Egypt, is a public company whose shares are listed on the Egyptian Stock Exchange and is therefore subject to Egyptian laws and regulations applicable to public companies and to enforcement actions by Egyptian authorities. Following the 2011 revolution, the election and inauguration of a new government in Egypt and the ouster and replacement of that government with another new government, there are significant uncertainties about the future political, economic and regulatory environment and stability in Egypt. As a result, we are exposed to the risk of unpredictable and adverse government action and severe delays in obtaining (or denials of) necessary approvals from government bodies. We may not be able to effectively challenge such actions through legal proceedings. Furthermore, Egyptian tax law could be changed significantly or become subject to new interpretation, which could expose GTH to increased tax liability. For more information on tax claims of the Egyptian authorities please see Note 27 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 20-F. In addition, authorities and GTH’s minority shareholders may bring claims against GTH or its officers and directors, some of whom are officers of VimpelCom. The risks relating to our majority stake in GTH could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we are unable to maintain our favorable brand image, we may be unable to attract new customers and retain existing customers, leading to loss of market share and revenue. We have expended significant time and resources building our “Beeline,” “Kyivstar,” “Wind,” “Infostrada,” “Mobilink,” “Leo,” “banglalink,” “Telecel,” and “Djezzy” brand images. Our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers depends in part on our ability to maintain what we believe to be our favorable brand image. Negative rumors or other claims by governmental authorities, individual customers and third parties against us could materially adversely affect this brand image. In addition, consumer preferences change and our failure to anticipate, identify or react to these changes by providing attractive services at competitive prices could negatively affect our market share. We cannot assure you that we will continue to maintain a favorable brand image in the future. Any loss of market share resulting from any or all of these factors could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 17 Table of Contents Our strategic partnerships and relationships to develop our business are accompanied by inherent business risks. We are in, and may enter into additional, strategic partnerships and joint ventures with other companies to develop our business and expand our operations. We currently participate in strategic partnerships and joint ventures in a number of countries where we operate, including Russia (Euroset), Kazakhstan (KaR-Tel, TNS-Plus, 2Day Telecom, S&G, KAZEUROMOBILE LLP), Uzbekistan (Buzton), Kyrgyzstan (Sky Mobile, Terra), Georgia (Mobitel), Tajikistan (Tacom), Laos (VimpelCom Lao Co., Ltd), and Zimbabwe (Telecel). Our participation in each of our subsidiaries and affiliated companies varies from market to market, and we do not always have a majority interest in our affiliated companies. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected if disagreements develop with our partners. Our ability to withdraw funds, including dividends, from our participation in, subsidiaries and investments may depend on the consent of partners. Further, failure to resolve any disputes with our partners in certain of our operating subsidiaries could restrict payments made by these operating subsidiaries to us and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, agreements governing these arrangements contain, in some cases, change of control and similar provisions, which, if triggered under certain circumstances could give other participants in these investments the ability to purchase our interests or enact other penalties. Emerging market strategic partnerships and joint ventures are often accompanied by risks, including in relation to: • the possibility that a strategic or joint venture partner or partners will default in connection with their obligations; • the possibility that a strategic or joint venture partner will hinder development by blocking capital increases and other decisions if that partner runs out of money, disagrees with our views on developing the business, or loses interest in pursuing the partnership or joint projects; • risk inherent in the business of the partnership or joint venture itself, such as funding and liquidity; • diversion of resources and management time; • potential joint and several or secondary liability for transactions and liabilities of the partnership or joint venture entity; • the possibility that our relationship with a strategic or joint venture partner will deteriorate; • the difficulty of maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; and • the loss of a strategic or joint venture partner and the associated benefits, such as insight into operating a business in an economic, social and political environment that is unfamiliar to us. Although we perform due diligence on our strategic or joint venture partners, and put in place contractual arrangements in an effort to secure that these partners comply with applicable law, we can nonetheless be subject to investigation, liability, and enforcement risk if they engage in conduct in violation of applicable law, including anti-corruption legislation. Moreover, it is possible that such an investigation or liability or enforcement action could constitute a default under relevant debt agreements, which might, in turn, cause the relevant debt to be accelerated and trigger cross defaults under other debt agreements. We are subject to investigations by the SEC, DOJ and the Dutch public prosecutor, and are conducting an internal investigation, and we are unable to predict the duration, scope or results of these investigations or their impact on us. As we previously disclosed, the SEC, DOJ and Dutch public prosecutor’s office are conducting investigations related to VimpelCom; these investigations appear to be concerned with our operations in Uzbekistan, including relations with Takilant Ltd. (“Takilant”). In June 2007, Takilant purchased from us a 7% interest in our business in Uzbekistan for US$20.0 million and entered into a shareholders agreement with us. In September 2009, Takilant exercised its option to put its 7% interest to us for US$57.5 million, an amount specified in the shareholders agreement. In addition, we had agreements with Takilant relating to the acquisition of frequency spectrum (including with respect to 3G and LTE) and channels in Uzbekistan pursuant to which we paid Takilant an aggregate of US$57.0 million. It has been reported in the press that Takilant is currently being investigated in Sweden and Switzerland on allegations that it and certain persons associated with it have committed acts of bribery and money-laundering connected with their activities in Uzbekistan, and also that Takilant is being investigated in the Netherlands and perhaps other jurisdictions. These investigations may, in part, involve us. As a result of concerns arising from press reports regarding Takilant, we commenced a review with respect to our operations in Uzbekistan, including our relations with Takilant, and in 2013 we retained external counsel with expertise relating to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and other anti-corruption laws and regulations to conduct such review. 18 Table of Contents Following notice of the investigations by the SEC, the DOJ and the Dutch public prosecutor’s office, we established a special committee of the supervisory board in March 2014, consisting of all outside directors, to oversee the internal investigation being conducted by the Company’s external counsel and our response to the inquiries by various authorities. While the initial focus of the investigation being conducted by the Company’s external counsel has been related to our Uzbek operations, including our relations with Takilant, and whether there was any conduct in our operations in Uzbekistan that may have violated the anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA, the FCPA’s books and records and internal controls provisions, applicable local laws and/or our own internal policies, the investigation is also reviewing our operations in additional countries. We expect to incur costs in responding to requests for information, testimony and other information in connection with the investigations and in conducting the internal investigation, and we cannot predict at this time the ultimate amount of all such costs. These matters may require the involvement of certain members of our senior management that could impinge on the time they have available to devote to other matters relating to the business. We may also see ongoing media and governmental interest in these matters that could impact the perception of us. The SEC, DOJ and Dutch investigations, as well as our own investigations, are continuing, and we are presently unable to predict the duration, scope or results of these investigations or how the results of these investigations may impact our internal controls, business, and the results of operations or financial condition. Further, there can be no assurance that such investigations will not be broader in scope than they currently appear, or that new investigations will not be commenced in these or other jurisdictions, or that there will not be litigation commenced against us. One or more enforcement actions could be instituted in respect of the matters that are the subject of some or all of the investigations. The DOJ and SEC have a broad range of civil and criminal sanctions under the FCPA and other laws and regulations including, but not limited to, judgments, settlements, injunctive relief, debarment or other relief, disgorgement, fines, penalties, modifications to business practices, including the termination or modification of existing business relationships, the imposition of compliance programs and the retention of a monitor to oversee compliance with the FCPA, and criminal convictions and/or penalties. The Dutch public prosecutor’s office and enforcement authorities in other jurisdictions also have a range of sanctions under the relevant laws and regulations. There can be no assurance that any investigation will not conclude that a violation of applicable law has occurred. The imposition of any of these sanctions or remedial measures could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. For more information on the risks associated with anti-corruption laws, see “—Legal and Regulatory Risks—We are subject to anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate” below. Our strategic shareholders may pursue different development strategies from us and from one another in the regions in which we operate, and this may hinder our ability to expand and/or compete in such regions and may lead to a deterioration in the relationship among our strategic shareholders. Our company’s largest shareholders, Altimo (a member of the Alfa group) and Telenor, and their respective affiliates, beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 90.9% of our outstanding voting shares. As a result, these shareholders, if acting together, have the ability to determine the outcome of matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the acquisition of assets by us. In addition, our largest shareholders have sufficient voting rights to jointly elect a majority of our supervisory board, and they may in the future enter into a shareholders agreement or similar arrangements which may impact the composition of our Supervisory board. Under our group’s corporate governance structure, significant corporate action on behalf of VimpelCom and/or its subsidiaries requires the prior approval of our supervisory board. Acting jointly, our largest shareholders can elect a majority of our supervisory board and as a result could cause us to take corporate actions or block corporate decisions by VimpelCom or its subsidiaries, including with respect to our capital structure, financings and acquisitions, which may not be in the best interest of our minority shareholders, or other security holders. In the past, Telenor and Alfa Group have had different strategies from us and from one another. In addition, in Pakistan and Bangladesh our subsidiaries directly compete with subsidiaries of Telenor and it is possible that we will compete with Telenor and/or Alfa Group in other markets in the future. We cannot assure you that we, the Telenor Group and the Alfa Group will not choose to pursue different strategies, including in markets or countries where the Telenor Group and the Alfa Group have a presence. Furthermore, if and to the extent that our strategic shareholders have different expansion strategies, it could lead to deterioration of their relationship which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 19 Table of Contents Litigation involving Altimo and Telenor, two of our largest shareholders, could lead to deterioration in their relationship and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. During the past eight years two of our largest shareholders, Altimo and Telenor, have been involved in various disputes and litigation regarding their ownership of and control over OJSC VimpelCom and Kyivstar. In October 2009, Telenor and Altimo entered into agreements under which, among other things, they agreed to dismiss or withdraw or to cause the dismissal or withdrawal of outstanding legal proceedings between, or involving, them and their respective affiliates, and reportedly they did so. In 2011 and 2012, Telenor and Altimo were again involved in litigation regarding their ownership of and control over our company. On January 28, 2011, Telenor commenced arbitration proceedings against each of Altimo Holdings, Altimo Coöperatief U.A. or “Altimo Coöperatief” (a subsidiary of Altimo Holdings), and VimpelCom Ltd. for the stated purpose of enforcing its alleged pre-emptive rights under the October 4, 2009 shareholders agreement among Altimo, Telenor and us in relation to our company (the “VimpelCom Shareholders Agreement”) with respect to VimpelCom shares issued in the Wind Telecom Transaction. In this Annual Report on Form 20-F, we refer to these proceedings as the “Arbitration Proceedings.” On February 15, 2012, Telenor notified the tribunal in the Arbitration Proceedings that it was withdrawing all of its claims against Altimo Holdings, Altimo Coöperatief and us. According to Telenor’s February 15, 2012 press release, Telenor withdrew its claims because it purchased 234,000,000 of Weather II’s VimpelCom convertible preferred shares, thus raising Telenor’s share of VimpelCom’s outstanding voting shares at the time to 36.4%. On March 8, 2012, the tribunal dismissed all claims in the Arbitration Proceedings with prejudice. For more information on our largest shareholders, see “Item 7—Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—A. Major Shareholders.” In addition, as a result of Altimo’s sale of 123,600,000 convertible preferred shares in June 2011, which reduced its voting rights in our company at the time to below 25%, the VimpelCom Shareholders Agreement terminated on December 10, 2011. The termination of the VimpelCom Shareholders Agreement could result in further disputes between Telenor and Altimo. Future legal proceedings between Altimo and Telenor and the termination of the VimpelCom Shareholders Agreement could cause the relationship between Altimo and Telenor to deteriorate. As a result of the disputes among two of our largest shareholders and claims made against us, we could suffer material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. A disposition by our strategic shareholders of their respective stakes in VimpelCom or a change in control of VimpelCom could harm our business. Certain of our debt agreements have “change of control” provisions that may require us to make a prepayment if certain parties acquire beneficial or legal ownership of or control over more than 50.0% of our shares, which could occur if certain parties acquired more than 50.0% of our company. Generally, this change of control provision is not triggered as long as a combination of the Alfa Group or Telenor own more than 50.0% of our company. If a change of control is triggered and we fail to make any required prepayment, this could lead to an event of default, and could trigger cross default/cross acceleration provisions under our other debt agreements. In such an event, our obligations under one or more of these agreements could become immediately due and payable, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We derive benefits and resources from the participation of Telenor and Altimo in our company. If Telenor or Altimo were to dispose of its stake in our company, either voluntarily or involuntarily, we may be deprived of the benefits and resources that we derive from it which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry Our business is highly capital intensive and requires substantial and ongoing expenditures of capital, which, in the future, we may not be able to obtain on favorable terms or at all. Our industry is highly capital intensive, and our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to keep pace with new developments in technology, to develop and market innovative products and to update our facilities and process technology. All of our operations have extensive capital expenditure programs that require substantial outlays. We may require additional capital in the future to finance our future growth and development, implement further marketing and sales activities, fund our ongoing research and development activities, implement new technological advances and meet our general working capital needs. The amount and timing of our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including acceptance of and demand for our products and services, the extent to which we invest in new technology and research and development projects, and the status and timing of competitive developments. We may require greater capital investments in shorter time frames than we have anticipated, and we or our operations may not have the resources to make such investments. If we do not have the resources for necessary capital expenditures, we may be required to raise additional debt or equity financing, which may not be available when needed on terms favorable to us or at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate funds on acceptable terms, we may be unable to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. For more information on future liquidity needs, see “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Future Liquidity and Capital Requirements.” Our revenue is often unpredictable, and our revenue sources are short-term in nature. Future revenue from our prepaid mobile customers, our primary source of revenue, and our contract mobile customers is unpredictable. We do not require our prepaid mobile customers to enter into long-term service contracts and cannot be certain that they will continue to use our services in the future. We require our contract mobile customers to enter into service contracts; however, many of these service contracts can be canceled by the customer with limited advance notice and without significant penalty. Consumption of mobile telephone services is driven by the level of consumer discretionary income. Deterioration in the economic situation could cause customers to have less discretionary income, thus affecting their spending on our services. The loss of a larger number of customers than anticipated could result in a loss of a significant amount of expected revenue. Because we incur costs based on our expectations of future revenue, our failure to accurately predict revenue could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are in competitive industries, and we may face greater competition as a result of market and regulatory developments. The markets in which we operate are competitive in nature, and we expect that competition, especially in the least developed markets, will continue to increase. If we are unsuccessful in our marketing campaigns or the services we introduce are not well received by consumers, or in the event of any delays in developing our networks, we will not generate the revenue anticipated and our ARPU may decline, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that our revenue will grow in the future, as competition puts pressure on prices. In addition, as the customer penetration rates increase and the markets in which we operate mature, mobile services providers, including us, may be forced to utilize more aggressive marketing schemes to retain existing customers and attract new ones. If this were to occur, we may choose to adopt lower tariffs, offer handset subsidies or increase dealer commissions, any or all of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Some of the markets in which we operate, including Russia and Italy, are already mature or approaching saturation and are characterized by high levels of competition. For more information on our markets and the competition we face, see “Item 4—Information on the Company—Description of Operations of the Russia Business Unit,” “—Description of Operations of the Italy Business Unit,” “—Description of Operations of the Africa & Asia Business Unit,” “—Description of Operations of the Ukraine Business Unit,” and “—Description of Operations of the CIS Business Unit.” In such mature markets, there are limits on the extent to which we can continue to grow our customer base. Competition for customers has in the past, and may in the future, create additional pricing pressure for operators, which could have a material adverse impact on our margins and profitability, as occurred during the summer in 2013 when all operators in Italy reduced pricing in order to gain market share. In our mature markets, the continued growth in our business and results of operations will depend, in part, on our ability to extract greater revenue from our existing customers, in addition to attracting customers of other operators, including through expansion of data services and introduction of next generation technologies. We may fail to develop and offer data services or technologies that are attractive to our existing or future customers or for which our existing or future customers are not willing or able to pay. We also may not be able to develop other platforms, products and services to attract and retain customers, or make strategic acquisitions in order to expand our business. Even if successful in making such developments or acquisitions, they may not result in an increased customer base or we may not be able to effectively monetize the use of such products and services to generate profits for us. If we fail to extract additional revenue from our existing customers or continue to expand our customer base, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be materially adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents In addition, as we expand the scope of our services, such as fixed-line residential and commercial broadband services, we may encounter a greater number of competitors who provide similar services. In the event we fail to successfully address challenges from our competition in new services, our business financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. The liberalization of the regulations in areas in which we operate could also greatly increase competition and put pressure on our pricing. If competitors are able to operate telecommunications networks that are more cost effective than ours, then they may have competitive advantages over us, which could harm our business. Providers of traditional fixed-line telephone services and mobile operators that have obtained fixed-line licenses may compete more effectively with us. Former state-controlled telecommunications service providers have dominated the fixed-line market in many of the countries in which we operate. These companies have some competitive advantages over our fixed-line operations, including: • significant resources and greater market presence and network coverage; • brand name recognition, customer loyalty and goodwill; and • control over domestic transmission lines and over access to these lines by other participants. Our competitors, particularly former state-controlled telecommunications service providers, may receive preferential treatment from the regulatory authorities and benefit from the resources of their shareholders, potentially giving them a substantial competitive advantage over us. Additionally, current or future relationships among our competitors and third parties may restrict our access to critical systems and resources. New competitors or alliances among competitors could rapidly acquire significant market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to forge similar relationships or successfully compete against them. We could experience customer database piracy or other database security breaches, which may materially adversely affect our reputation, lead to customer lawsuits, loss of customers or hinder our ability to gain new customers and thereby materially adversely affect our business. We may be exposed to database piracy or other database security breaches which could result in the leakage and unauthorized dissemination of information about our customers, including their names, addresses, home phone numbers, passport details and individual tax numbers. In addition, the breach of security of our database and illegal sale or other unauthorized release of our customers’ personal information could materially adversely impact our reputation, prompt lawsuits against us by individual and corporate customers, lead to violations of data protection laws and adverse actions by the telecommunications regulators and other authorities, lead to a loss in customers and hinder our ability to attract new customers. If severe customer data security breaches are detected, the regulatory authority can sanction our company, and such sanction can include suspension of operations for some time period. In addition, we may be exposed to cyber-attacks, which could result in equipment failures or disruptions in our operations. Our inability to operate our fixed-line or wireless networks as a result of such events may result in significant expense or loss of market shares. These factors, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our failure to keep pace with technological changes and evolving industry standards could harm our competitive position and, in turn, materially adversely affect our business. The telecommunications industry is characterized by rapidly evolving technology, industry standards and service demands. We experience new customer demand for more sophisticated telecommunications and Internet services in the markets in which we operate. Accordingly, our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to the changing technological landscape and the regulation of standards utilizing these technologies. In addition, market demand for new technologies in which we invest may not increase or may decrease over time, limiting our ability to recoup the costs of our investments in such new technologies. The rapid technological advances in the telecommunications industry make it difficult to predict the extent of future competition. It is possible that the technologies we utilize today will become obsolete or subject to competition from new technologies in the future for which we may be unable to obtain the appropriate license. We may not be able to meet all of these challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner. We operate third generation mobile technologies, or “3G,” networks in some of our markets, and we will need to develop 3G networks in additional markets in which we operate. In some areas, we operate in a 4G network, and we are exploring options for developing a 4G network in other markets. New network development requires significant financial investments and there can be no assurance that we will be able to develop 3G or 4G networks on commercially reasonable terms, that we will not experience delays in developing our networks or that we will be able to meet all of the license terms and conditions or that we will be granted such licenses at all. In addition, penetration rates for 4G compatible devices may not currently support the cost of 4G development in certain 22 Table of Contents markets, such as Russia, and such rates will need to increase to be commercially viable. Therefore, we may be unable to successfully compete in the future. If we experience substantial problems with our 3G or 4G services, or if we fail to introduce new services on a timely basis relative to our competitors, it may impair the success of such services, delay or decrease revenue and profits and therefore may hinder recovery of our significant capital investments in 3G or 4G services as well as our growth. The next step in telecommunications in Ukraine is the deployment of 3G networks. The 3G auction was announced and subsequently canceled by government authorities in 2009, and no auction has been held yet. The only operator in Ukraine holding a 3G license is Limited Liability Company “Trimob,” a subsidiary of Ukrtelecom. If Kyivstar is unable to obtain a 3G license or if a 3G license is awarded to one of Kyivstar’s competitors, Kyivstar would face increased competition in the provision of mobile services in Ukraine. Similarly, if Kyivstar ultimately acquires a 3G license later than its competitors or is required to pay a significantly higher price to obtain a 3G license than its competitors, it could be at a significant competitive disadvantage and face increased costs in implementing its 3G network roll-out. The next step in the development of telecommunications in Russia is the deployment of 4G/LTE networks. The cost of 4G/LTE network development and the quality of services (including data speed and quality of coverage) depend on the band and the width of frequency range given to an operator. In July 2012, OJSC VimpelCom was awarded one of four nationwide LTE licenses granted in Russia. The other three licenses were granted to MTS, MegaFon and Rostelecom. The license allows OJSC VimpelCom to provide services using radio-electronic devices in Russia via networks that use the LTE standard within certain designated frequency bands. Our license is subject to several conditions, including that we invest a certain amount in our network in each year in which it is being constructed. By the end of 2013, we launched LTE networks in seven regions, including Moscow. For more information regarding the terms of our LTE license, please see the section of this Annual Report on Form 20-F entitled “Item 4—Information on the Company—Description of Operations of the Russia Business Unit—Mobile Business in Russia—Mobile Telecommunications Licenses in Russia.” Additionally, the State Radio Frequencies Commission gave Scartel (Yota brand) two ranges of LTE frequencies, 30 MHz each, in the 2.5-2.7 GHz band for use in the whole territory of Russia in exchange for 4G frequencies held by Scartel for WiMax technology bandwidth of 70MHz (the exchange was completed on a non-auction basis). Initially it was planned that all operators would receive equal access to the Scartel infrastructure, which would allow each operator to reduce its 4G/LTE network development costs. However, according to public reports, shareholders of MegaFon and shareholders of Scartel established a joint venture, Garsdale Services Investment Ltd., through which shareholders of MegaFon indirectly hold an 82% equity interest in Scartel and MegaFon entered into a MVNO agreement with Scartel for the joint development and provision of 4G technology networks under the LTE standard in Russia. In the last quarter of 2013, MegaFon acquired LLC Scartel and LLC Yota from Garsdale Services Investments Ltd, MegaFon’s controlling shareholder. As a result, MegaFon obtained a competitive advantage both in terms of frequency resources and LTE network development using Scartel’s network. WIND Italy has made significant investments in obtaining its UMTS licenses related frequencies and has continued to significantly invest in the development of its network, in addition to the planned investments in its LTE network during the next several years. On the fixed-line network in Italy, our competitor, Telecom Italia, announced a plan to introduce a progressive roll-out of a “next generation network.” The “next generation network,” if introduced, would replace partially Telecom Italia’s legacy copper network with fiber. Although there is uncertainty around implementing the roll-out of such next generation network, including the timing, it is possible that as Telecom Italia upgrades its network, the local exchanges WIND Italy uses to provide LLU services could be closed over time. As a result, WIND Italy may be forced to co-locate at a different location where the cost of unbundling is likely to be more expensive and space for co-location is likely to be more limited, or adopt a different approach to its business or build its own fiber network at a material cost, which could have a material adverse effect on WIND Italy’s business or results of operations. Our ability to provide telecommunications services would be severely hampered if our access to local and long distance line capacity were limited or if the commercial terms of our interconnect agreements were significantly altered. Our ability to secure and maintain interconnect agreements with other wireless and local, domestic and international fixed-line operators on cost-effective terms is critical to the economic viability of our operations. Interconnection is required to complete calls that originate on our respective networks but terminate outside of our respective networks, or that originate from outside our networks and terminate on our respective networks. A significant increase in our interconnection costs as a result of new regulations, 23 Table of Contents commercial decisions by other fixed-line operators, increased inflation rates in the countries in which we operate or a lack of available line capacity for interconnection could have a material adverse effect on our ability to provide services, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our existing equipment, technological and management systems may be subject to disruption and failure, which could cause us to lose customers, limit our growth and violate our licenses. The successful build-out and operation of our networks depends heavily on obtaining adequate supplies of switching equipment, radio access network solutions, base stations and other equipment on a timely basis. We currently purchase our equipment from a small number of suppliers, principally Alcatel-Lucent, Cisco Systems, Comverse, Ericsson, Huawei and Nokia Solutions and Networks, although some of the equipment that we use is available from other suppliers. From time to time, we have experienced delays in receiving equipment. Our business could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies or equipment from our suppliers in a timely manner and on reasonable terms. Our business depends on providing customers with reliability, capacity and security. As telecommunications increases in technological capacity, it may become increasingly subject to computer viruses, software bugs and other disruptions. We cannot be sure that our network system will not be the target of a virus or, if it is, that we will be able to maintain the integrity of the data of our corporate customers or of that in individual handsets of our mobile customers or that a virus will not overload our network, causing significant harm to our operations. In addition to computer viruses, the services we provide may be subject to disruptions resulting from numerous other factors, including human error, security breaches, equipment defects, and natural disasters, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our technological infrastructure is vulnerable to damage or disruptions from numerous events, including fire, flood, windstorms or other natural disasters, power outages, terrorist acts, government shutdown orders, equipment or system failures, human error or intentional wrongdoings, including breaches of our network or information technology security. Problems with our backbone, switches, controllers, fiber optic network or network nodes at one or more of our base stations, whether or not within our control, could result in service interruptions or significant damage to our networks. All of our equipment for provision of mobile services in Moscow is located primarily in two buildings in Moscow. Disruption to the operation of these buildings, or buildings where our equipment is held in other jurisdictions where we operate, such as from electricity outages or damage to these buildings could result in disruption of our mobile services in those jurisdictions. Although we have back-up capacity for our network management operations and maintenance systems, automatic transfer to our back-up capacity may not be seamless, and may cause network service interruptions. In recent years, we have experienced network service interruptions, which occur from time to time during installations of new software. Interruptions of services could harm our business reputation and reduce the confidence of our customers and consequently impair our ability to obtain and retain customers and could lead to a violation of the terms of our licenses, each of which could materially adversely affect our business. In some of the markets in which we operate, we do not carry business interruption insurance to prevent against network disruptions. Our ability to manage our business successfully is contingent upon our ability to implement sufficient operational resources systems and processes to support our rapid growth. We may face risks in connection with the correct use of the newly introduced systems and processes in the regions where our group operates or integrating new technologies into existing systems. For example, if our billing systems develop unexpected limitations or problems, customer bills may not be generated promptly and/or correctly. This could materially adversely impact our business since we would not be able to collect promptly on customer balances and could impact our reputation if customers are billed incorrectly. We depend on third parties for certain services and products important to our business. There is inherent risk in relying on third parties for services and products important for our operations. For example, we may outsource our networks in certain markets in which we operate, and our networks are important to our business. In addition, we rely on roaming partners to provide services to our customers while they are outside the countries in which we operate. To the extent that we are unable to find and engage appropriate third party providers on acceptable terms or the third parties on which we rely fail to provide the required services or products, it could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We expect that the sales of handsets, including iPhones and other smartphones, will contribute to our customer growth, and such sales are therefore critical for our overall growth strategy. In the event we are unable to extend our existing agreements with, or fail to agree on acceptable terms or lose exclusivity in our agreements with, handset providers, we could experience a negative impact on our ARPU and our churn rate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Many of our mobile products and services are sold to customers through retail channels. The third party retailers and dealers that we use to distribute and sell products are not under our control and may stop distributing or selling our products at any time. Should this occur with particularly important retailers or dealers, we may face difficulty in finding new retailers or sales dealers that can generate the same level of revenue. In addition, retailers and dealers that also distribute or sell competing products and services may more actively promote the products and services of our competitors. Such developments with our third party retailers and dealers could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects. Allegations of health risks related to the use of mobile telecommunication devices and base stations could have a material adverse effect on us. There have been allegations that the use of certain mobile telecommunication devices may cause serious health risks. The actual or perceived health risks of mobile devices could diminish customer growth, reduce network usage per customer, spark product liability lawsuits or limit available financing. Each of these possibilities has the potential to cause material adverse consequences for us and for the entire mobile industry. Our intellectual property rights are costly and difficult to protect, and we cannot guarantee that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate. We regard our copyrights, trademarks, trade dress, trade secrets and similar intellectual property, including our rights to certain domain names, as important to our continued success. We rely upon trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our proprietary rights. However, intellectual property rights are especially difficult to protect in the markets in which we operate. In these markets, the regulatory agencies charged to protect intellectual property rights are inadequately funded, legislation is underdeveloped, piracy is commonplace and enforcement of court decisions is difficult. In addition, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement. As the number of convergent product offerings and overlapping product functions increase, the possibility of intellectual property infringement claims against us may increase. Any such litigation may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, and, if decided unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We also may incur substantial acquisition or settlement costs where doing so would strengthen or expand our intellectual property rights or limit our exposure to intellectual property claims of third parties. While we have successfully enforced our intellectual property rights in courts in the past, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully protect our property rights in the future. Our competitive position and future prospects depend on our senior management and other key personnel and our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to maintain our competitive position and to implement our business strategy is dependent to a large degree on our senior management team and other key personnel. In the markets in which we operate, competition for personnel with relevant expertise is intense. The loss of members of our businesses’ senior management teams or an inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Legal and Regulatory Risks We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to a large variety of laws and extensive regulatory requirements. As a multinational telecommunications company that operates in regulated markets, we are subject to different laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we provide services. Mobile, Internet, fixed-line, voice and data markets are all generally subject to extensive regulatory requirements, including strict licensing regimes, as well as anti-monopoly and consumer protection regulations, in the countries in which we operate. Regulations may be especially strict in the markets of those countries in which we are considered to hold a significant or dominant market position. Furthermore, regulations could require us to reduce 25 Table of Contents roaming prices and termination rates in mobile and/or fixed-line networks, require us to offer access to our network to other operators, and result in the imposition of fines if we fail to fulfill our service commitments. Such regulations and regulatory actions could place significant competitive and pricing pressure on our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. For more information on the regulatory environment in which we operate, see “Item 4—Information on the Company—Regulation of Telecommunications.” Anti-monopoly regulations in the countries in which we operate may require us to obtain anti-monopoly approvals for certain acquisitions, reorganizations or other transactions as may be provided for in applicable law. The applicable rules are generally subject to different interpretations and the competent authorities may challenge the positions that we take. We may also be unable to comply with anti-monopoly approvals due to administrative delays in the review process or for other reasons. Failure to obtain such approvals or the activities of the relevant anti-monopoly bodies may impede or adversely affect our business and ability to expand our operations. Anti-monopoly and consumer protection regulators in countries where we operate have oversight over consumer affairs and advertising and are authorized to regulate companies deemed to be a dominant force in, or a monopolist of, a market. In some countries in which we operate, including Russia, Italy, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Armenia, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan and Pakistan, we have been identified by the regulators as having a significant or dominant market position. In such markets, regulations could require us to reduce roaming prices, retail mobile prices and/or termination rates in mobile and/or fixed networks, require us to grant access to our network to other operators and result in the imposition of fines if we fail to fulfill our service commitments. In addition, because of our identification as holding a dominant or significant market position, we are subject to stricter controls on our operations and higher scrutiny in achieving anti-monopoly approvals in such markets, potentially making us less flexible in terms of pricing our services and causing us to incur additional obligations when completing acquisitions. Regulatory measures taken in response to competition violations may include inter alia the requirement to discontinue certain activities, the imposition of fines, confiscation of revenue derived from monopolistic activities, restrictions on increase of tariffs on acquisitions or on other activities, such as contractual obligations. Any successful challenge by an anti-monopoly regulator or other competent authority may expose us or certain of our officers, directors, or shareholders to fines or penalties and may result in the invalidation of certain agreements or arrangements. This may materially adversely affect the manner in which we manage and operate certain aspects of our business. In addition, the potential fines imposed on us by a regulatory authority in relation to competition violations may be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In connection with the approval of the Russian Federal Anti-Monopoly Service, or “FAS,” of our acquisition of an additional 0.1% stake in Euroset Holding N.V., or “Euroset,” in December 2012 (which increased our stake to 50.0%), the FAS issued orders that prohibit us from setting discriminatory terms while selling our services through Euroset and require that we instruct those entities controlled by us with regard to the orders. Since Euroset is 50.0% owned by us and 50.0% by Lefbord, our company does not control Euroset and we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with the FAS orders. If we fail to comply with the FAS orders, the FAS may impose a fine on us and may apply to a court to invalidate the acquisition of our entire stake in Euroset. For more information about the competition proceedings in which our subsidiaries are involved, see Note 27 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 20-F. New or proposed changes to laws in Russia and other markets in which we operate may adversely affect our business. In December 2012 legislation was adopted in Russia, which permitted mobile customers to use the mobile number portability service, or “MNP,” for a fee determined by the operator (which must not exceed 100 rubles) from December 1, 2013. MNP was implemented during 2013 only at the regional level, allowing customers to retain their mobile phone numbers only after switching their mobile operator within the same region without obtaining the approval of the Federal Communications Agency. The number database for customers who would like to use MNP has been set up by the Russian government. We spent US$17 million on MNP launch and support in 2013. Although we expect that, until the end of the first quarter of 2014 (as discussed below), the launch of MNP will not affect the market shares of operators, we cannot be certain that this will not negatively impact our market share over a longer term, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In November 2013, the Russian Government approved a transitional period for MNP up to April 7, 2014, during which the receiving operator (recipient) has a right to appoint the terms of number portability, but no later than April 15, 2014. From April 8, 2014, all operators will be obliged to transfer customer numbers to a new operator within eight days after conclusion of a new 26 Table of Contents operator contract with consumers or 29 days for corporate customers. Operators (donors) who do not comply with these terms will have to serve these customers free of charge until the end of the MNP time limits. We currently anticipate that we will be able to complete MNP requests within these time limits. However, if, after we receive a warning from the relevant regulator, we are still unable to comply with the time limits for MNP, the relevant license under which we provide the services to the transferring customer could be revoked. Accordingly, these MNP regulations or other similar regulations in other markets in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Certain draft laws are under discussion in Russia which, if adopted as currently drafted, could cause our revenue from the provision of roaming services and international roaming retail services to decline. This and other potential regulatory changes that may be enacted in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. For a discussion of developments in the regulation of mobile termination rates affecting our business in Italy, see “Item 4—Information on the Company—Regulation of Telecommunications—Regulation of Telecommunications in Italy.” These developments have in the past and can in the future adversely affect our business in Italy. In Bangladesh, the new regulations set by the local regulator, the Bangladesh Telecommunications Regulatory Commission, or “BTRC,” regarding VoIP usage forced our subsidiary in Bangladesh to disconnect suspected VoIP users with high ARPU. This negatively affected revenue and had a significant negative impact during 2013. These or similar regulations in other markets in which we operate could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In Ukraine, new legislation came into effect in 2012, which, among other things, implements a national roaming service giving customers the ability to transfer their mobile numbers from one telecommunication network to another. In 2013, the procedure for the provision of MNP services was approved by the Ukrainian regulator with a starting date of MNP service from July 1, 2014. The implementation of MNP may result in changes to the current market shares of the Ukrainian mobile telecommunications operators. In December 2012, the National Regulator of Armenia adopted the principles and timetable for the Implementation of MNP services in Armenia. The porting time may not exceed three working days with gradual reduction to one working day and shall be free of charge. Since December 2012 the National Regulator of Armenia adopted further rules and took further actions to implement the various decisions. MNP was implemented on April 1, 2014. The implementation of MNP may result in changes to the current market shares of the Armenian telecommunications operators. Our licenses may be suspended or revoked and we may be fined or penalized for alleged violations of law or regulations. We are required to meet certain terms and conditions under our licenses, including meeting certain conditions established by the legislation regulating the communications industry. For more information on our licenses and their related requirements, please see the sections of this Annual Report on Form 20-F entitled “Item 4—Information on the Company—Description of Operations of the Russia Business Unit,” “—Description of Operations of the Italy Business Unit,” “—Description of Operations of the Africa & Asia Business Unit,” “—Description of Operations of the Ukraine Business Unit,” and “—Description of Operations of the CIS Business Unit.” If we fail to comply with the conditions of our licenses or with the requirements established by the legislation regulating the communications industry, or if we do not obtain or comply with permits for the operation of our equipment, use of frequencies or additional licenses for broadcasting directly or through agreements with broadcasting companies, we anticipate that we would have an opportunity to cure any non-compliance. However, we cannot assure you that we will receive a grace period, and we cannot assure you that any grace period afforded to us would be sufficient to allow us to cure any remaining non-compliance. In the event that we do not cure any non-compliance, the applicable regulator could decide to suspend and seek termination of the license or permit. The occurrence of any of these events could materially adversely affect our ability to build out our networks in accordance with our plans and to retain and attract customers, could harm our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may from time to time receive notices with respect to violations of our licenses. To the extent possible, we take measures to comply with the requirements of the notices. To the extent the alleged violations in these notices are not resolved within the required period, including due to delay of the authorities, we may suffer significant interruptions to our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If a government regulator finds that we have failed to fulfill the specific terms of any of our licenses, frequency permissions or other governmental permissions or permits or that we have provided services in a manner that violates applicable legislation, government regulators may levy fines, suspend or terminate our licenses, frequency permissions, or other governmental permissions or permits or refuse to renew licenses, frequency permissions or other governmental permissions or permits that are up for renewal. 27 Table of Contents A suspension and/or the subsequent termination of licenses or refusal to renew our licenses, frequency permissions and/or other governmental permissions or permits could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our licenses are granted for specified periods and they may not be extended or replaced upon expiration. Most of our licenses are granted for specified terms, and we can give you no assurance that any license will be renewed upon expiration. If renewed, our licenses may contain additional obligations, including payment obligations (which may involve a substantial renewal or extension fee), or may cover reduced service areas or scope of service. As a rule, the expiration date of frequency permissions for most of our mobile communications and radio-relay line base stations exceeds the validity period of communications service licenses. We cannot predict whether, upon the renewal or extension of a license, we will be able to obtain extensions of our frequency permissions and whether these extensions will be formalized and granted by the regulatory agency in a timely manner and without any significant additional costs. It is possible that upon expiration of frequency permissions the frequency bands currently in use by us will be wholly or partly reallocated in favor of other communications technologies or other communications operators, requiring that we coordinate the use of our frequencies with the other license holders or experience a loss of quality in our network. If our licenses for provision of telecommunications services or frequency allocations are not renewed, our business could be materially adversely affected. For more information our licenses, please see the section of this Annual Report on Form 20-F entitled “Item 4—Information on the Company—Description of Our Business.” We face uncertainty regarding our frequency allocations, equipment permits and network registration, and we may experience limited spectrum capacity for providing wireless services. To establish and commercially launch a mobile telecommunications network, we are required to receive, among other things, frequency allocations for bandwidths within the frequency spectrums in the regions in which we operate. There is a limited number of frequencies available for mobile operators in each of the regions in which we operate or hold licenses to operate. We are dependent on access to adequate frequency allocation in each such market in order to maintain and expand our customer base. If frequencies are not allocated to us in the future in the quantities, with the geographic span and for time periods that would allow us to provide mobile services on a commercially feasible basis throughout all of our license areas, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected. In addition, a failure to make payments for frequency allocations could result in the suspension or revocation of our frequency allocations. A loss of allocated frequency that is not replaced by other adequate allocations also could have a substantial adverse impact on our network capacity and our ability to provide mobile services. In addition, frequency allocations may be issued for periods that are shorter than the terms of our licenses, and such allocations may not be renewed in a timely manner or at all. For instance, we have in the past been unable to obtain frequency allocations necessary to test or expand our networks in Russia. If our frequencies are revoked or we are unable to renew our frequency allocations, or obtain additional ones, our network capacity and our ability to provide mobile services would be constrained and our ability to expand would be limited, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operations and prospects. In addition, 3G and advanced spectrum auctions are expected to be held in a number of jurisdictions in which we operate, and failure to obtain sufficient spectrum at acceptable prices in these markets, or other markets in which 3G and advanced spectrum are introduced, may materially adversely affect our business, financial performance and results of operations. In Algeria, OTA was officially notified of the award of its 3G license on December 3, 2013 and in Bangladesh, banglalink was awarded a 3G license on September 8, 2013. In Pakistan, Mobilink, was awarded a 3G license on April 23, 2014. We may encounter difficulties in building our networks, and we may face other factors beyond our control that could affect our ability to operate our networks, decrease the quality of our services, increase the cost of construction or operation of our networks or delay the introduction of services. As a result, we could experience difficulty in increasing our customer base or could fail to meet license requirements, either of which may have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we could face significant increased costs if the laws or authorities in the countries in which we operate change the requirements for our equipment or networks, including, but not limited to, prohibiting the use of equipment from certain manufactures due to national security concerns or imposing important bans on certain types of equipment. This or similar measures in other jurisdictions in which we operate could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 28 Table of Contents The laws of the countries in which we operate generally prohibit the operation of telecommunications equipment without a relevant permit from the appropriate regulatory body. Due to complex regulatory procedures, it is frequently not possible for us to procure in a timely manner the permissions and registrations required for our base stations, including registration of our title to land plots underlying our base stations and construction permits, or other aspects of our network before we put the base stations into operation or to amend or maintain the permissions in a timely manner when it is necessary to change the location or technical specifications of our base stations. At times, there can be a number of base stations or other communications facilities and other aspects of our networks for which we are awaiting final permission to operate for indeterminate periods. This problem may be exacerbated if there are delays in issuing necessary permits. We also regularly receive notices from regulatory authorities in countries in which we operate warning us that we are not in compliance with aspects of our licenses and permits and requiring us to cure the violations within a certain time period. We have closed base stations on several occasions in order to comply with regulations and notices from regulatory authorities. Any failure by our company to cure such violations could result in the applicable license being suspended and subsequently revoked through court action. Although we generally take all necessary steps to comply with any license violations within the stated time periods by switching off base stations that do not have all necessary permits until such permits are obtained, we cannot assure you that our licenses will not be suspended and not subsequently be revoked in the future. If we are found to operate telecommunications equipment without an applicable permit, we could experience a significant disruption in our service or network operation and this would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may be subject to increases in payments for frequency allocations under the terms of some of our licenses. Legislation in many countries in which we operate, including Russia, require that we make payments for frequency spectrum usage. As a whole, the fees for all available frequency assignments have been significant. Any significant increase in the fees payable for the frequencies that we use or for additional frequencies that we need could have a negative effect on our financial results. We cannot assure you that the fees we pay for radio-frequency spectrum use will not increase, and such an increase could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For more information on the payment requirements relating to frequency allocation, see “Item 4—Information on the Company—Regulation of Telecommunications.” We are involved in disputes and litigation with regulators, competitors and third parties. We are party to lawsuits and other legal, regulatory and antitrust proceedings, the final outcome of which is uncertain. Litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently unpredictable. For more information on these disputes, see Note 27 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 20-F. An adverse outcome in, or any settlement of, these or other proceedings (including any that may be asserted in the future) may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We could be subject to tax claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Tax audits in the countries in which we operate are conducted regularly. We have been subject to substantial claims by tax authorities in Russia, Italy, Algeria, Egypt, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Armenia, Georgia, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan. These claims have resulted in additional payments, including fines and penalties, to the tax authorities. For more information regarding tax claims and their effects on our financial statements, see Note 27 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 20-F. Risks relating to tax claims of the Algerian tax authorities are described in greater detail below in “—The Algerian Government has made substantial tax and other claims against OTA which have harmed OTA’s business, and the Algerian Government has announced its intention to unilaterally acquire OTA from GTH.” Although we are permitted to challenge in court the decisions of tax inspectorates, there can be no assurance that we will prevail in our litigation with tax inspectorates. In addition, there can be no assurance that the tax authorities will not claim on the basis of the same asserted tax principles they have claimed against us for prior tax years or different tax principles that additional taxes are owed by us for prior or future tax years or that the relevant governmental authorities will not decide to initiate a criminal investigation in connection with claims by tax inspectorates for prior tax years. The adverse resolution of these or other tax matters that may arise could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents The Algerian Government has made substantial tax and other claims against OTA which have harmed OTA’s business, and the Algerian Government has announced its intention to unilaterally acquire OTA from GTH. GTH’s subsidiary OTA accounts for a significant proportion of GTH’s consolidated revenue. For the past several years, OTA has suffered from various ongoing measures taken by the Algerian Government and its various regulatory agencies. The Algerian tax authority has made substantial tax claims against OTA for the tax years 2004 to 2009. OTA continues to challenge these claims but has prepaid, under protest, claimed amounts and penalties totaling approximately DZD71.9 billion (equal to approximately US$955 million using the average annual exchange rates according to the years in which amounts were prepaid) during the pendency of its legal challenges. On April 15, 2010, an injunction by the Bank of Algeria came into effect that restricts all Algerian banks from engaging in foreign banking transactions on behalf of OTA. OTA has challenged this injunction in the Algerian courts but the case is still pending. As a result of the injunction OTA is prevented from importing equipment from foreign suppliers, save for a recent limited exemption allowing the importation of 3G equipment, and is prevented from transferring funds outside of Algeria. The Algerian authorities alleged breaches of foreign exchange regulations by OTA and a member of its senior management. On March 28, 2012, the Algerian Court of First Instance handed down a judgment against OTA and a member of OTA’s senior executive team. The judgment consists of fines of DZD99.0 billion (approximately US$1.3 billion at the exchange rate as of March 28, 2012) including a criminal sentence against a member of OTA’s senior executive team. On April 5, 2012, OTA and its senior executive appealed the Criminal Court’s judgment and on May 27, 2012, the Algerian Criminal Court of Appeal handed down judgment on the day of the hearing, confirming the judgment against OTA, suspending the criminal custodial sentence previously ordered against OTA’s senior executive and transferring the burden of payment of the DZD6 billion fine ordered against the senior executive to OTA. On May 31, 2012, OTA lodged a final appeal against the May 27, 2012 judgment before the Algerian Supreme Court, which is still pending. On April 12, 2012, GTH submitted a formal Notice of Arbitration against the Algeria State in respect of actions taken by the Algerian State against OTA. The claim in the Notice of Arbitration is being made under the arbitration rules of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law. In its Notice of Arbitration, GTH asserts that since 2008 its rights under the Agreement on the Promotion and Reciprocal Protection of Investments between Egypt and Algeria have been violated by actions taken by the Algerian State against OTA, including the Algerian Court of First Instance’s March 28, 2012 judgment against OTA and a member of its senior executive team and the Tax Reassessments. Furthermore, the Algerian Government has announced its intention to unilaterally purchase OTA, alleging that it has the right to do so under the pre-emption right contained in the 2009 Finance Act and the 2010 Supplemental Finance Act. For more information, see Note 27 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 20-F. The 2010 Supplement Finance Act also introduced a new penalty for failing to identify SIM card users and a future tax on certain profit, each of which could result in additional costs to the company. On April 18, 2014, we together with our subsidiary GTH entered into a share purchase agreement to settle our disputes with the Algerian Government and sell a 51% interest in OTA to the Algerian National Investment Fund, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions precedent. Specifically, as part of the settlement: (1) at closing of the transaction, OTA will definitively discontinue, with no admission of wrongdoing or liability, all pending proceedings relating to the disputes with the Algerian tax administration relating to tax reassessments for the years 2004 to 2009, (2) the foreign exchange and import restrictions put in place by the Bank of Algeria against OTA on April 15, 2010 will be lifted on closing of the transaction, following the payment by OTA to the Algerian Treasury of the fine of DZD99.0 billion (approximately US$1.266 billion), (3) at closing of the transaction, OTA will definitively discontinue (with no admission of wrongdoing or liability) all pending related proceedings, and (4) upon signing of the share purchase agreement on April 18, 2014, GTH suspended its current arbitration against the Algerian State initiated on April 12, 2012 and, upon closing of the transaction, the parties to the arbitration will terminate the arbitration and all claims relating thereto. Although we expect the transaction to close by the end of 2014, there can be no certainty that the closing conditions will be satisfied or waived and that the sale transaction will be completed. If the sale transaction is not completed, then the aforementioned settlements will not be effected. In such case, there can be no certainty that the Algerian tax authority will not make further tax assessments against OTA or other GTH companies in the future or that we would be successful in challenging any assessment or successful in recovering amounts that we have prepaid against these claims. Payment of, or lack of recovery of, claimed tax amounts may have an adverse effect on GTH’s business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, although OTA maintains that it has, and its senior executive has, acted in compliance with the law, if the sale transaction is not completed there is no guarantee that OTA will not become liable to pay some or all of the Bank of Algeria fines and become liable to further penalties and levies. This case may also interfere with the ability of members of the senior management of OTA to perform their functions and manage the company. If the sale transaction is not completed, GTH’s ability to repatriate profits from Algeria in the future and to continue to own and control its operations in Algeria may be impacted by the ongoing court cases, arbitration and disputes. In addition, a number of laws have been enacted in Algeria which have an impact on OTA and GTH’s investments in Algeria, and there can be no assurance that there will not be further new laws and changes to existing laws that will 30 Table of Contents have a negative impact on OTA and GTH. These and other measures taken by the Algerian Government and its agencies against OTA have adversely impacted the business, financial condition and results of operations of OTA and may continue into the future. The tax and other regulatory laws and regulations in Algeria, are subject to change or interpretation by the local authorities, including changes or interpretations that may subject OTA to material penalties, both monetary and statutory, which could adversely affect the conduct of its business. For more information, see Notes 27 and 28 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 20-F. Unpredictable tax systems give rise to significant uncertainties and risks that could complicate our tax planning and business decisions. The tax systems in the markets in which we operate may be unpredictable and give rise to significant uncertainties, which could complicate our tax planning and business decisions, especially in emerging markets in which we operate. Tax laws in many of the emerging markets in which we operate have been in force for a relatively short period of time as compared to tax laws in more developed markets. Tax authorities in our markets are often arbitrary in their interpretation of tax laws, as well as in their enforcement and tax collection activities which may increase the likelihood that tax authorities will impose arbitrary or onerous taxes and penalties in the future or require us to resort to court proceedings to defend our position against the tax authorities. Any additional tax liability imposed on us by tax authorities in this manner, as well as any unforeseen changes in applicable tax laws or changes in the tax authorities’ interpretations of the respective double tax treaties in effect could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations, cash flows or the amounts of dividends available for distribution to shareholders in a particular period. We may be required to accrue substantial amounts for contingent tax liabilities and the amounts accrued for tax contingencies may not be sufficient to meet any liability we may ultimately face. From time to time, we may also identify tax contingencies for which we have not recorded an accrual. Such unaccrued tax contingencies could materialize and require us to pay additional amounts of tax. Introduction of the new tax laws or the amendment of existing tax laws, including, but not limited to those relating to transfer pricing rules or the deduction of interest expenses in the markets in which we operate may increase the risk of adjustments being made by the tax authorities and, as a result, could have a material impact on our business, financial performance and results of operations. However no assurance can be currently given as to whether and when these amendments will be enacted, their exact nature, and the possible impact on our business. For more information on risks relating to the Italian tax system, see “—Italian CFC legislation has been extended to EU companies.” For more information on risks relating to Algerian tax claims, see “—The Algerian Government has made substantial tax and other claims against OTA which have harmed OTA’s business, and the Algerian Government has announced its intention to unilaterally acquire OTA from GTH.” above. Repeated tax audits and extension of liability beyond the limitation period may result in additional tax assessments. Tax declarations together with related documentation are subject to review and investigation by a number of authorities, which are empowered to impose fines and penalties on taxpayers. In Russia, for example, tax returns remain open and subject to inspection by tax and/or customs authorities for three calendar years immediately preceding the year in which the decision to conduct an audit is taken. However, the fact that a particular year has been reviewed by tax authorities does not preclude that year from further review or audit during the eligible three-year limitation period by a superior tax authority. On July 14, 2005, the Russian Constitutional Court issued a decision allowing the statute of limitations for tax liabilities to be extended beyond the three-year term set forth in the tax laws if a court determines that the taxpayer has obstructed or hindered a tax inspection. Moreover, amendments to the first part of the Russian Tax Code, effective January 1, 2007, provide for the extension of the three-year statute of limitations if the actions of the taxpayer created insurmountable obstacles for the tax audit. Because none of the relevant terms is defined, tax authorities may have broad discretion to argue that a taxpayer has “obstructed,” “hindered” or “created insurmountable obstacles” in respect of an inspection and to ultimately seek review and possibly apply penalties beyond the three-year term, and there is no guarantee that the tax authorities will not review our compliance with applicable tax law beyond the three-year limitation period. Therefore, the statute of limitation is not entirely effective. Other jurisdictions in which we operate provide, or in the future may provide, similar powers to their taxing authorities. 31 Table of Contents Tax audits may result in additional costs to our group if the relevant tax authorities conclude that entities of the group did not satisfy their tax obligations in any given year. Such audits may also impose additional burdens on our group by diverting the attention of management resources. The outcome of these audits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Under such review the relevant tax authorities may conclude that we had significantly underpaid taxes relating to earlier periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, in recent years, the Russian tax authorities have aggressively brought tax evasion claims relating to Russian companies’ use of tax-optimization schemes, and press reports have speculated that these enforcement actions have been selective and politically motivated. Italian CFC legislation has been extended to EU companies. As a result of Italian legislation enacted in 2009 and 2010, which provides for taxation of foreign companies located in certain countries and territories with a privileged tax regime that are directly or indirectly controlled by Italian resident individuals, companies and entities, certain WIND Italy group companies located within the EU, may be subject to additional taxation. However, there is still significant uncertainty regarding the application of these rules. Accordingly, WIND Italy continues to analyze the possible application developments and interpretations of this legislation. WIND Italy may be subject to a deferral or to a limitation of the deduction of interest expenses in Italy. For taxpayers like WIND Italy, Article 96 of Decree No. 917, as amended and restated, provides for the Italian regime of interest expenses deduction, aimed at rationalizing and simplifying the interest expenses deduction for Italian corporate income tax, or “IRES,” purposes. Specifically, the rules allow for the full tax deductibility of interest expense incurred by a company in each fiscal year up to the amount of the interest income of the same fiscal year, as evidenced by the relevant annual financial statements. A further deduction of interest expense in excess of this amount is allowed up to a threshold of 30% of the EBITDA of a company (i.e., “risultato operativo lordo della gestione caratteristica,” or “ROL” calculated as the difference between (i) the value of production -item A of the profit and loss account scheme contained in Article 2425 of Italian Civil Code- and (ii) the costs of production -item B of the profit and loss accounts scheme contained in Article 2425 of Italian Civil Code-, excluding depreciation, amortization and financial leasing installments relating to business assets) as recorded in such company’s profit net loss account. The law provides that the amount of ROL (i) produced as from the third fiscal year following the fiscal year 2007 (i.e., 2010) and (ii) not used for the deduction of the amount of interest expense that exceeds interest income, can be carried forward, increasing the amount of ROL for the following fiscal years. Interest expense not deducted in a relevant fiscal year can be carried forward to the following fiscal years, provided that, in such fiscal years, the amount of interest expense that exceeds interest income is lower than 30% of ROL. Special rules apply to companies participating in the same tax group, allowing, to a certain extent and with certain limitations, to offset the excess interest expenses incurred by an Italian company in the tax group with 30% of ROL of other companies in the same tax group. Subject to certain limitations, the 30% of the foreign controlled entities’ ROL may be used to offset any excess interest expenses of Italian companies participating to the tax group. Based on the above rules, WIND Italy currently is not able to deduct all of its interest expenses, though it is able to carry forward accrued and unused deductions to future fiscal years. Furthermore, any future changes in current Italian tax laws or in their interpretation and/or any future limitation on the use of the foreign controlled entities ROL may have an adverse impact on the deductibility of interest expenses for Wind Italy which, in turn, could adversely affect VimpelCom’s and WIND Italy’s financial condition and results of operations. We operate in an uncertain regulatory environment, which could cause compliance to become more complicated, burdensome and expensive and could result in our operating without all of the required permissions. The application of the laws of any particular country is not always clear or consistent. This is particularly true in many of the emerging market countries in which we operate where legislative drafting has not always kept pace with the demands of the marketplace. For more information on the risks associated with emerging markets, see “—Risks Related to Our Markets—Investors in emerging markets, where most of our operations are located, are subject to greater risks than investors in more developed markets, including significant political, legal and economic risks and risks related to fluctuations in the global economy” below. As a result, it is often difficult to ensure that we are in compliance with changing legal requirements. As an example, authorities in the Russian Federation are discussing the possible introduction of substantial fines for violation of the laws relating to customers’ personal data processing. The amount of a fine might run up to US$8,600 for each violation. In addition, in 2010, the Algerian government issued a new finance law, where in case of failure to identify the SIM card user, a penalty amounting to DZD100,000 (equivalent to US$1,267) for each unidentified SIM is paid for the first year and increase to DZD150,000 (equivalent to US$1,901) for the second year. This law also specifies that the details of implementation of this provision 32 Table of Contents will be clarified by further legislation that has not been published. Following the measures that are currently being introduced in order to modernize the Algerian administrative system, in some regions the competent bodies have started to refuse legalizing IDs. The Ministry of Home Affairs is expected to clarify the approach to be taken by mobile operators. If we are found to be involved in practices that do not comply with local laws or regulations, we may be exposed, among other things, to significant fines, the risk of prosecution or the suspension or loss of our licenses, frequency allocations, authorizations or various permissions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The regulators responsible for the control and supervision of communications services in each country in which we operate frequently check our compliance with the requirements of the applicable legislation and our telecommunications licenses and permits. We intend to make all necessary efforts to comply with all such requirements. However, we cannot assure you that in the course of future inspections, we will not be found to be in violation of the applicable legislation, licenses and/or permits. Any such finding could have a material adverse effect on business, financial condition or results of our operations. In addition, it may be difficult and/or prohibitively expensive for us to comply with applicable telecommunications regulations related to state surveillance of communications traffic. Full compliance with regulations that allow the state to monitor voice and data traffic may be overly burdensome and expensive and lead to a drop in quality of service. Non-compliance with such regulations may lead to the imposition of fines or penalties on us, or the revocation of our operating licenses. Further, some customers may refuse to utilize the services of a telecommunications operator whose networks facilitate state surveillance of communications traffic. As a result of the uncertainty in the regulatory environment we have experienced and could experience in the future: • restrictions or delays in obtaining additional numbering capacity, receiving new licenses and frequencies, receiving regulatory approvals for rolling out our networks in the regions for which we have licenses, receiving regulatory approvals for changing our frequency plans and importing and certifying our equipment; • difficulty in complying with applicable legislation and the terms of any notices or warnings received from the regulatory authorities in a timely manner; • significant additional costs; • delays in implementing our operating or business plans; and • a more competitive operating environment. Arbitrary action by the authorities may have a material adverse effect on our business. In countries where we operate, governmental, regulatory and tax authorities have a high degree of discretion and at times exercise their discretion arbitrarily, without a hearing or prior notice, and sometimes in a manner that is contrary to law. Arbitrary, inconsistent or unlawful actions by authorities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Developing legal systems in the countries in which we operate create a number of uncertainties for our business. Many aspects of the legal systems in our countries of operation create uncertainties with respect to many of the legal and business decisions that we make, many of which do not exist in countries with more developed legal systems. The uncertainties we face include, among others, potential for negative changes in laws, gaps and inconsistencies between the laws and regulatory structure, difficulties in enforcement and inconsistency in the judicial interpretation of legislation in similar cases due to an underdeveloped judicial system. Lack of independence and experience of the judiciary, difficulty of enforcing court decisions, the unpredictable acknowledgement and enforcement of foreign court judgments or arbitral awards in a number of the countries in which we operate and governmental discretion in enforcing claims give rise to significant uncertainties. In a number of the countries in which we operate, the independence of the judicial system and its immunity from political, economic and nationalistic influences remains largely untested. Additional factors, such as lack of formal binding effect of judicial precedents, poor availability and organization of legislation and court decisions, slow pace of judicial processes and difficulty in enforcement of court orders, make judicial decisions in many of the countries in which we operate difficult to predict and make effective redress uncertain. Additionally, court claims are often used in furtherance of political aims. We may be subject to such claims and may not be able to receive a fair hearing. Additionally, court orders are not always enforced or followed by law enforcement agencies. 33 Table of Contents In addition, many of the countries in which we operate are not parties to any multilateral or bilateral treaties with most Western jurisdictions, including the United States and the United Kingdom, for the mutual enforcement of judgments of state courts. Consequently, should a judgment be obtained from a court in any of such jurisdictions, it is highly unlikely to be given direct effect in the courts of such countries. There is also a risk that new legislation in such countries will introduce further grounds for preventing foreign court judgments and arbitral awards from being recognized and enforced. Laws restricting foreign investment could materially adversely affect our business. We could be materially adversely affected by existing laws restricting foreign investment or the adoption of new laws or regulations restricting foreign investment, including foreign investment in the telecommunications industry in Russia or other markets in which we operate. Russian legislation, named “Russian Foreign Investment Law,” limits foreign investment in companies that are deemed to be strategic. Under the Russian Foreign Investment Law, a company operating in the telecommunications sector may be deemed strategic if it holds a dominant position in the Russian communications market (except for the Internet services market) or, in the case of fixed-line telecommunications, if the particular company’s market covers five or more Russian regions or covers Russian cities of federal importance. In connection with the adoption of the Russian Foreign Investment Law, amendments were adopted to certain provisions of the Russian Communications Law which provide that with respect to mobile telecommunications, a company will be deemed to have a dominant position for purposes of application of the Russian Foreign Investment Law if its share of the Russian mobile telecommunications market exceeds 25.0%. The FAS has previously determined that a group of persons consisting of OJSC VimpelCom and two of its Russian subsidiaries, one of which subsequently merged with and into OJSC VimpelCom, has a dominant position, because their share of the Russian mobile telecommunications market exceeds 25.0%. As a result, OJSC VimpelCom is deemed to be a strategic enterprise and, among other things, any acquisition by a foreign investor of direct or indirect control over more than 50.0% of its voting shares, or 25.0% in the case of a company controlled by a foreign government, requires the prior approval of the Russian authorities pursuant to the Russian Foreign Investment Law. In the event of any future transactions resulting in the acquisition by a foreign investor of direct or indirect control over OJSC VimpelCom, such a transaction will require prior approval in accordance with the Russian Foreign Investment Law. Additionally, companies controlled by foreign governments are prohibited from acquiring control over strategic enterprises. For example, the FAS claim filed in April 2012 sought to invalidate acquisitions by Telenor of VimpelCom Ltd. shares on grounds that Telenor is majority owned by the Norwegian government, a foreign government and such acquisitions were in violation of the Foreign Investment Law. The FAS claim was terminated without a determination of the issue. As a result, our ability to obtain financing from foreign investors may be limited, should prior approval be refused, delayed or require foreign investors to comply with certain conditions imposed by the Government Commission on Control of Foreign Investments in the Russian Federation or the FAS, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are subject to anti-corruption laws. We are subject to a number of anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA and various other anti-corruption laws. Our failure to comply with anti-corruption laws applicable to us could result in penalties which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The FCPA generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business and/or other benefits. The FCPA also requires public companies to maintain accurate books and records and devise a system of sufficient internal accounting controls. We regularly review and update our policies and procedures and internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that we, our employees, distributors and other intermediaries comply with the anti-corruption laws to which we are subject. However, there are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any policies, procedures and internal controls, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the policies, procedures and internal controls. There can be no assurance that such policies or procedures or internal controls will work effectively at all times or protect us against liability under these or other laws for actions taken by our employees, distributors and other intermediaries with respect to our business or any businesses that we may acquire. We operate in Africa, Russia and other countries of the former Soviet Union, as well as other countries which pose elevated risks of corruption violations. If we are not in compliance with anti-corruption laws and other laws governing the conduct of business with government entities and/or officials (including local laws), we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Any investigation of any actual or alleged violations of such laws or policies by us or any governmental body could also have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 34 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Markets The international economic environment could have a material adverse effect on our business. After late 2008, the economies in our markets were adversely affected by the international economic crisis, and economies in markets in which we operate continue to suffer. Among other things, the crisis led to a slowdown in gross domestic product growth, increase of inflation, devaluations of the currencies in Russia and the other markets in which we operate and a decrease in commodity prices. Although in certain markets in which we operate economic conditions have been improving, the timing of a return to sustained economic growth and consistently positive economic trends is difficult to predict. The recessionary effects, debt crisis and Euro crisis in Europe continue to pose potentially significant macroeconomic risks to our group. The economic climate is further strained by high energy costs, in large part due to conflicts or social unrest in the Middle East and Northern Africa, which can increase various costs including some of our operations’ costs, while at the same time discouraging spending by customers. In addition, because Russia and Kazakhstan, currently two of our larger markets, produce and export large amounts of oil, their economies are particularly vulnerable to fluctuations in the price of oil on the world market and those fluctuations can adversely affect such economies and those of other markets in which we operate. The current difficult economic environment and any future downturns in the economies of markets in which we operate or may operate in the future could diminish demand for our services, increase our costs, constrain our ability to retain existing customers and collect payments from them and prevent us from executing our growth strategy. Adverse economic conditions could also hurt our liquidity and prevent us from obtaining financing needed to fund our development strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. When we purchase a company, we record the difference between the sum of the purchase price plus the fair value of non-controlling interest and the fair value of the net assets acquired as goodwill. VimpelCom has recognized substantial amounts of goodwill in connection with its acquisitions, in particular the acquisitions of Golden Telecom in 2008, Kyivstar in 2010 and Wind Telecom in 2011. At December 31, 2013 the gross value of goodwill was US$14,709 million. In 2013 we recorded impairment of goodwill in Ukraine of US$ 2,085 million, the investment in Canada of US$ 764 million and other assets in various countries of US$ 124 million. On at least an annual basis, we perform an impairment test for each cash generating unit (“CGU”) as required by IFRS. Estimating recoverable amounts of CGUs must, in part, be based on management’s evaluations, including the determination of the appropriate CGUs, the discount rate, estimates of future performance, the revenue generating capacity of the assets, timing and amount of future purchases of property and equipment, assumptions of the future market conditions and the long-term growth rate into perpetuity (terminal value). A deterioration in macroeconomic conditions in the countries in which we operate and/or a significant difference between the performance of an acquired company and the business case assumed at the time of acquisition could require us to further write down the value of the goodwill. In addition, the different possible developments as a result of a financial and economic crisis, in particular related to customer behavior, competition reaction in this environment in terms of offers and pricing or in response to new entrants, regulatory adjustments in relation to reductions in consumer prices and our ability to adjust costs and investments in keeping with possible changes in revenue may adversely affect our forecasts and lead to a write-down in tangible and intangible assets. A write-down in tangible and intangible assets could impact any covenants under our debt agreements and could lead to a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. For further information on the impairment of tangible and intangible assets and recoverable amounts (particularly key assumptions and sensitivity), see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 20-F. Investors in emerging markets, where most of our operations are located, are subject to greater risks than investors in more developed markets, including significant political, legal and economic risks and risks related to fluctuations in the global economy. Most of our operations are in emerging markets. Investors in emerging markets should be aware that these markets are subject to greater risks than more developed markets, including in some cases significant political, legal and economic risks. Emerging market governments and judiciaries often exercise broad, unchecked discretion and are susceptible to abuse and corruption and rapid reversal of political and economic policies on which we depend. Political and economic relations among the countries in which we operate are often complex and have in the past resulted in, and may in the future result in conflicts, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. In addition, emerging economies are subject to rapid change and the information set out in this Annual Report on Form 20-F may become outdated relatively quickly. The economies of emerging markets 35 Table of Contents are vulnerable to market downturns and economic slowdowns elsewhere in the world. As has happened in the past, financial problems or an increase in the perceived risks associated with investing in emerging economies could dampen foreign investment in these markets and materially adversely affect their economies. These developments could severely limit our access to capital and could materially adversely affect the purchasing power of our customers and, consequently, our business. Some of the jurisdictions in which we operate have experienced significant social unrest. For example, GTH is an Egyptian company listed on the Egyptian Stock Exchange. Since 2011, there have been widespread protests against the government, resulting in a negative impact on the share prices of companies listed on the Egyptian Stock Exchange and resulted in extensive disruption and damage throughout the country to public and private property and infrastructure. In addition, in 2012 and 2013, there was significant social unrest in Bangladesh and Pakistan. These events and similar events in other jurisdictions where we operate could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a number of the jurisdictions in which we operate may present security risks to our local businesses, management and employees, and this may make it more difficult to attract and retain effective management personnel. Ukraine has experienced significant social and political unrest in recent months, including large-scale political protests resulting in the death of numbers of Ukrainians and the removal of Viktor F. Yanukovich as president of Ukraine in February 2014. Further deterioration of conditions in Ukraine could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Due to recent developments in Ukraine and Russia’s annexation of Crimea, the United States, the European Union, Australia, Canada, and a number of other countries have imposed sanctions on certain individuals and financial institutions in Russia and have proposed the use of broader economic sanctions. In response, Russia has imposed entry bans on certain U.S. and E.U. officials, and some Russian officials have indicated that Russia would impose sanctions in response to sanctions imposed on Russia by other countries. If the United States and the European Union were to impose further sanctions, including sanctions on additional Russian businesses or additional Russian financial institutions, or if there were an increase in hostilities in Ukraine or in the region, it could result in instability or worsening of the overall economic situation in Ukraine, Russia, Europe or in the global capital markets generally, which could impact our group. In particular, we could be materially adversely impacted by a decline of the Ruble against the U.S. Dollar or the Euro exchange rates and the general economic performance of Russia. The annexation of the Crimea by Russia and unrest in Eastern Ukraine may result in significant damage or loss of assets and may also present some regulatory issues, the resolution of which may adversely impact our group. As a result, the instability in the region and economic sanctions and other geopolitical developments could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. For more information about the market risks we are exposed to as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, see “—Risks Related to Our Business—We are exposed to foreign currency exchange loss and convertibility risks.” In case of significant social unrest in some of the countries in which we operate, the local authorities may order our subsidiaries to temporarily shut down their entire network or our networks may be shut down due to nationwide strikes. For example, in 2013, our subsidiary in Pakistan was ordered to shut down parts of its mobile network and services on a regular basis. Also, our subsidiary in Bangladesh was forced to shut down its network on a number of occasions due to nationwide strikes. In addition, local governments or other factions could make inappropriate use of our network and force us to broadcast propaganda or illegal instructions to our customers. Forced shutdowns or inappropriate use of our network in the countries where we have operations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Generally, investment in emerging markets is only suitable for sophisticated investors who fully appreciate the significance of the risks involved and investors are urged to consult with their own legal, financial and tax advisors. Sustained periods of high inflation may materially adversely affect our business. The countries in which we operate have experienced periods of high levels of inflation, including certain cases of hyperinflation. Our profit margins could be adversely affected if we are unable to sufficiently increase our prices to offset any significant future increase in the inflation rate, which may become more difficult as we attract more mass market customers and our customer base becomes more price sensitive. Inflationary pressure in the countries where we have operations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 36 Table of Contents Social instability in the countries where we operate could lead to increased support for centralized authority and a rise in nationalism, which could harm our business. Social instability in the countries in which we operate, coupled with difficult economic conditions, could lead to increased support for centralized authority and a rise in nationalism. These sentiments could lead to restrictions on foreign ownership of companies in the telecommunications industry or large-scale nationalization or expropriation of foreign-owned assets or businesses. In most of the countries in which we operate, there is relatively little experience in enforcing legislation enacted to protect private property against nationalization or expropriation. As a result, we may not be able to obtain proper redress in the courts, and we may not receive adequate compensation if in the future the governments decide to nationalize or expropriate some or all of our assets. If this occurs, our business could be harmed. In addition, ethnic, religious, historical and other divisions have, on occasion, given rise to tensions and, in certain cases, military conflict. The spread of violence, or its intensification, could have significant political consequences, including the imposition of a state of emergency, which could materially adversely affect the investment environment in the countries in which we operate. The physical infrastructure in many countries in which we operate is in poor condition and further deterioration in the physical infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on our business. In many countries in which we operate, the physical infrastructure, including transportation networks, power generation and transmission and communications systems, is in poor condition. In some of the countries in which we operate, including Russia, the public switched telephone networks have reached capacity limits and need modernization, which may inconvenience our customers and will require us to make additional capital expenditures. In addition, continued growth in local, long-distance and international traffic, including that generated by our customers, and development in the types of services provided may require substantial investment in public switched telephone networks. Any efforts to modernize infrastructure may result in increased charges and tariffs, potentially adding costs to our business. The deterioration of the physical infrastructure harms the economies of these countries, disrupts the transportation of goods and supplies, adds costs to doing business and can interrupt business operations. Further deterioration in the physical infrastructure in many of the countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business. The banking systems in many countries in which we operate remain underdeveloped, there are a limited number of creditworthy banks in these countries with which our company can conduct business and currency control requirements restrict activities in certain markets in which we have operations. The banking and other financial systems in many countries in which we operate are not well developed or regulated, and laws relating to banks and bank accounts are subject to varying interpretations and inconsistent applications. We have attempted to mitigate our banking risk by receiving and holding funds with the most creditworthy banks available in each country. However, in the event of a banking crisis in any of these countries or the bankruptcy or insolvency of the banks from which we receive, or with which we hold, our funds could result in the loss of our deposits or negatively affect our ability to complete banking transactions in these countries, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. In addition, central banks and governments in the markets in which we operate may restrict or prevent international transfers or impose (foreign) currency restrictions which could prevent us from making payments, including the repatriation of dividends. This could result in a material adverse effect on the business condition of our local operations. Risks Related to the Ownership of our ADSs The issuance of a significant number of our shares in the Wind Telecom Transaction and a resulting “market overhang” could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. There are currently 305,000,000 VimpelCom convertible preferred shares outstanding which may be converted into VimpelCom common shares at the option of the shareholder (presently Telenor) any time between October 15, 2013 and April 15, 2016 at a price based on the NASDAQ price of VimpelCom ADSs, subject to certain limitations under U.S. securities laws. If convertible preferred shares are converted into common shares they will also become available for trading in the public market. The sale of any of the VimpelCom shares on the public markets or the perception that such sales may occur (commonly referred to as “market overhang”), may adversely affect the market for, and the market price of, VimpelCom’s ADSs. 37 Table of Contents Various factors may hinder the declaration and payment of dividends. The payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of VimpelCom’s supervisory board and VimpelCom’s assets consist primarily of investments in its operating subsidiaries. Various factors may cause the supervisory board to determine not to pay dividends. Such factors include VimpelCom’s financial condition, its earnings and cash flows, its leverage, its capital requirements, contractual restrictions, legal proceedings and such other factors as VimpelCom’s supervisory board may consider relevant. For more information on our policy regarding dividends, see “Item 8. Financial Information—Policy on Dividend Distributions.” VimpelCom is a Bermuda company governed by Bermuda law, which may affect your rights as a shareholder or holder of ADSs. VimpelCom is a Bermuda exempted company. As a result, the rights of VimpelCom’s shareholders are governed by Bermuda law and by VimpelCom’s bye-laws. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. In addition, holders of ADSs do not have the same rights under Bermuda law and VimpelCom’s bye-laws as registered holders of VimpelCom’s shares. Substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. It may be difficult for investors to enforce in the United States judgments obtained in U.S. courts against VimpelCom or its directors and executive officers based on civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. Uncertainty exists as to whether courts in Bermuda will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, including the United States, under the securities laws of those jurisdictions, or entertain actions in Bermuda under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. We are not subject to certain corporate governance requirements under the NASDAQ rules. Our ADSs are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market; however, as a Bermuda company, we are permitted to follow “home country practice” in lieu of certain corporate governance provisions under the NASDAQ listing rules that are applicable to a U.S. company. The primary difference between our corporate governance practices and the NASDAQ rules relates to NASDAQ listing rule 5605(b)(1), which provides that each U.S. company listed on NASDAQ must have a majority of independent directors, as defined in the NASDAQ rules. Bermuda corporate law does not require that we have a majority of independent directors. We do not have a majority of independent directors, as defined in the NASDAQ rules. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections as are afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. For more information on the significant differences between our corporate governance practices and those followed by U.S. companies under the NASDAQ listing rules, see the section of this Annual Report on Form 20-F entitled “Item 16G—Corporate Governance.” 