Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information set forth in this annual report, you should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to the Hospitality Industry The hospitality industry is cyclical, and macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can adversely affect and reduce demand for our hospitality products and services. The hospitality industry is cyclical. For example, the last two completed business cycles in the hospitality industry, which we define as the period starting with the first calendar year of negative revenue per available room (RevPAR) growth and ending with the last calendar year of positive RevPAR growth, took place from 1991 to 2000 and 2001 to 2007. During the declining stages of these two business cycles, RevPAR growth was negative for one calendar year (1991) and two calendar years (2001 and 2002), respectively. The declining stage of the current business cycle began in the fourth quarter of 2008 and continued until the second quarter of 2010. Our RevPAR declines in the current business cycle were more severe than those of the last two business cycles, and have had a greater negative impact on our profitability. See “-A worsening of global economic conditions could cause our revenues and profitability to decline” and Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Principal Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations—Revenue.” 25 Table of Contents Macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can reduce demand for hospitality products and services, including demand for rooms at properties that we manage, franchise, own and develop and for sales of vacation ownership properties. These factors include: • changes and volatility in general economic conditions, including the severity and duration of any downturn in the U.S., Europe or global economy and financial markets; • war, civil unrest (Cairo, Egypt), terrorist activities (such as the terrorist attacks in Jakarta, Indonesia and Mumbai, India) or threats and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to these events; • outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and H1N1 (swine) flu; • natural or man-made disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, tornados, hurricanes, floods, oil spills and nuclear incidents; • changes in the desirability of particular locations or travel patterns of customers; • decreased corporate budgets and spending and cancellations, deferrals or renegotiations of group business (e.g., industry conventions); • low consumer confidence and high levels of unemployment; • depressed housing prices; • the financial condition of the airline, automotive and other transportation-related industries and its impact on travel; • decreased airline capacities and routes; • travel-related accidents; • oil prices and travel costs; • statements, actions or interventions by governmental officials related to travel and corporate travel-related activities, and the resulting negative public perception of such travel and activities; • domestic and international political and geo-political conditions; • cyclical over-building in the hotel and vacation ownership industries; and • organized labor activities, which could cause a diversion of business from hotels involved in labor negotiations and loss of group business. These factors can adversely affect, and from time to time have adversely affected, individual properties, particular regions or our business as a whole. How we manage any one or more of these factors, or any crisis, could limit or reduce demand, or the rates our properties are able to charge for rooms or services or the prices at which we are able to sell our vacation ownership properties, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. A worsening of global economic conditions could cause our revenues and profitability to decline. Consumer demand for our products and services is closely linked to the performance of the general economy and is sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. Declines in consumer demand due to adverse general economic conditions, risks affecting or reducing travel patterns, lower consumer confidence and high unemployment or adverse political conditions can lower the revenues and profitability of our owned properties and the amount of management and franchising fee revenues we are able to generate from our managed and franchised properties. Declines in hotel profitability during an economic downturn directly impact the incentive portion of our management fees, which is based on hotel profit measures. Outside of the United States, our fees are often more dependent on hotel profitability measures, either through a single management fee that is based on a profitability measure, or because our two-tier fee structure is more heavily 26 Table of Contents weighted toward the incentive fee than the base fee. Because RevPAR is a measure of achieved average daily rate (ADR) and occupancy, declines in ADR and occupancy relating to declines in consumer demand will lower RevPAR. For additional information regarding RevPAR and ADR, see Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Key Business Metrics Evaluated by Management.” Our vacation ownership business is also linked to cycles in the general economy and consumer discretionary spending. As a result, changes in consumer demand and general business cycles can subject and have subjected our revenues to significant volatility. Global economic downturns have historically led to a significant decline in demand for hospitality products and services, lower occupancy levels and significantly reduced room rates, all of which has lowered our revenues and negatively affected our profitability. For example, our revenues decreased by $505 million driven by an 18.7% decline in RevPAR at comparable systemwide properties in the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations—Principal Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations—Revenues.” The global economic downturn and the general uncertainty over the duration of such conditions in key global markets could continue to have a negative impact on the hospitality industry. Imminent improvements in demand for hospitality products and services in key global markets may not occur, and our future financial results and growth could be further harmed or constrained if recovery stalls or conditions worsen. While our 2011 and 2010 results reflect an increase in RevPAR levels at comparable systemwide properties, they have not increased at the same rate at which they declined. Uncertainty regarding the rate and pace of further recovery and the impact any such recovery may have on different regions of the world makes it difficult to predict further increases in RevPAR levels. Additionally, if economic weakness were to return to any of these regions of the world, it could have an adverse impact on our revenues and negatively affect our profitability. We are subject to the business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, any of which could reduce our profits and limit our opportunities for growth. Our business is subject to a number of business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, including: • changes in taxes and governmental regulations that influence or set wages, prices, interest rates or construction and maintenance procedures and costs; • the costs and administrative burdens associated with complying with applicable laws and regulations; • the costs or desirability of complying with local practices and customs; • the availability and cost of capital necessary for us and potential hotel owners to fund investments, capital expenditures and service debt obligations; • delays in or cancellations of planned or future development projects; • foreign exchange rate fluctuations or restructurings; • changes in operating costs, including, but not limited to, energy, food, workers’ compensation, benefits, insurance and unanticipated costs resulting from force majeure events; • significant increases in cost for healthcare coverage for employees and potential government regulation in respect of health coverage; • shortages of labor or labor disruptions; • shortages of desirable locations for development; • the financial condition of third-party property owners, franchisees, developers and hospitality venture partners, which may impact our ability to recover payments owed to us or such third parties’ ability to fund operational costs, perform under management, franchise, development and hospitality venture agreements or satisfy other contractual commitments and obligations that may impact us; 27 Table of Contents • relationships with our third-party property owners, franchisees and hospitality venture partners; and • the ability of third-party internet travel intermediaries to attract and retain customers. Any of these factors could limit or reduce the prices we charge for our hospitality products or services, including the rates our properties charge for rooms or the prices for which we are able to sell our vacation ownership properties. These factors can also increase our costs or affect our ability to develop new properties or maintain and operate our existing properties. As a result, any of these factors can reduce our profits and limit our opportunities for growth. Risks Related to Our Business Because we operate in a highly competitive industry, our revenues, profits or market share could be harmed if we are unable to compete effectively. The segments of the hospitality industry in which we operate are subject to intense competition. Our principal competitors are other operators of full service and select service properties, including other major hospitality chains with well-established and recognized brands. We also compete against smaller hotel chains and independent and local hotel owners and operators. If we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues or profits may decline or our ability to maintain or increase our market share may be diminished. Competition for Guests We compete for guests based primarily on brand name recognition and reputation, location, customer satisfaction, room rates, quality of service, amenities, quality of accommodations, security and the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points. Some of our competitors are larger than we are based on the number of properties or rooms they manage, franchise or own or based on the number of geographic locations where they operate. Some of our competitors also have significantly more members participating in their guest loyalty programs which may enable them to attract more customers and more effectively retain such guests. Our competitors may also have greater financial and marketing resources than we do, which could allow them to improve their properties and expand and improve their marketing efforts in ways that could affect our ability to compete for guests effectively. In addition, industry consolidation may exacerbate these risks. Competition for Management and Franchise Agreements We compete for management agreements based primarily on the value and quality of our management services, our brand name recognition and reputation, our ability and willingness to invest our capital in third-party owned or hospitality venture projects, the level of our management fees, the terms of our management agreements and the economic advantages to the property owner of retaining our management services and using our brand name. We compete for franchise agreements based primarily on brand name recognition and reputation, the room rate that can be realized and royalty fees charged. Other competitive factors for management and franchise agreements include relationships with property owners and investors, including institutional owners of multiple properties, marketing support, reservation and e-commerce system capacity and efficiency and the ability to make investments that may be necessary to obtain management and franchise agreements. We believe that our ability to compete for management and franchise agreements primarily depends on the success of the properties that we currently manage or franchise. The terms of any new management or franchise agreements that we obtain also depend on the terms that our competitors offer for those agreements. In addition, if the availability of suitable locations for new properties decreases, planning or other local regulations change or the availability or affordability of financing is limited, the supply of suitable properties for us to manage or franchise could be diminished. We may also be required to agree to limitations on the expansion of one or more of our brands in certain geographic areas in order to obtain a management or franchise agreement for a property under development. We may be prohibited from managing, franchising or owning properties in areas where 28 Table of Contents opportunities exist due to these restrictions. If the properties that we manage or franchise perform less successfully than those of our competitors, if we are unable to offer terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors or if the availability of suitable properties is limited, our ability to compete effectively for new management or franchise agreements could be reduced. Competition for Sales of Vacation Ownership Properties We compete for sales of our vacation ownership properties based principally on location, quality of accommodations, price, financing terms, quality of service, terms of property use, opportunity to exchange into time at other vacation properties and brand name recognition and reputation. In addition to competing with other hotel and resort properties, our vacation ownership properties compete with national and independent vacation ownership club operators as well as with owners reselling their interests in these properties. Our ability to attract and retain qualified purchasers of our vacation ownership properties depends on our success in distinguishing the quality and value of our vacation ownership products and services from those offered by others. If we are unable to do so, our ability to compete effectively for sales of vacation ownership properties could be adversely affected. If third-party property owners or franchisees of the properties we manage or franchise fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve their properties, preference for our brands and our reputation could suffer or our management or franchise agreements with those parties could terminate. We manage and franchise properties owned by third parties under the terms of management and franchise agreements. Substantially all of these agreements require third-party property owners to comply with standards that are essential to maintaining our brand integrity and reputation. We depend on third-party property owners to comply with these requirements by maintaining and improving properties through investments, including investments in furniture, fixtures, amenities and personnel. Third-party property owners or franchisees may be unable to access capital or unwilling to spend available capital when necessary, even if required by the terms of our management or franchise agreements. If our third-party property owners or franchisees fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve the properties we manage or franchise, our brand preference and reputation could suffer. Moreover, third party owners or franchisees may be unwilling or unable to incur the cost of complying with brand standards for new and existing brands as such brands may evolve from time to time. As a result, we may be forced to absorb such costs to ensure that brand standards come to market in a timely fashion. In addition, if third-party property owners or franchisees breach the terms of our agreements with them, we may elect to exercise our termination rights, which would eliminate our revenues from these properties and cause us to incur expenses related to terminating these relationships. These risks become more pronounced during economic downturns. If our management or franchise agreements terminate prematurely or we elect to make cure payments due to failures to meet performance tests, at the request of third parties or upon the occurrence of other stated events, our revenues could decrease and our costs could increase. Our management and franchise agreements may terminate prematurely in certain cases. Some of our management agreements provide early termination rights to owners of the hotels we manage upon the occurrence of a stated event, such as the sale of the hotel or our failure to meet a specified performance test. Generally, termination rights under performance tests are based upon the property’s individual performance, its performance when compared to a specified set of competitive hotels branded by other hotel operators, or both. Some agreements require a failure of one test, and other agreements require a failure of more than one test, before termination rights are triggered. These termination rights are usually triggered if we do not meet the performance tests over multiple years. Generally, we have the option to cure performance failures by making an agreed upon cure payment. However, our cure rights may be limited in some cases and the failure to meet the performance tests may result in the termination of our management agreement. In the past we have (1) failed 29 Table of Contents performance tests, received notices of termination and elected to make cure payments and (2) failed performance tests and negotiated an alternative resolution. When any termination notice is received, we evaluate all relevant facts and circumstances at the time in deciding whether to cure. In addition, some of our management agreements give third-party property owners the right to terminate upon payment of a termination fee to us after a certain period of time or upon sale of the property or another stated event. Our franchise agreements typically require franchisees to pay a fee to us before terminating. In addition, if an owner files for bankruptcy, our management and franchise agreements may be terminable under applicable law. If a management or franchise agreement terminates, we could lose the revenues we derive from that agreement or incur costs related to ending our relationship with the third party and exiting the property. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with third-party property owners and franchisees, our revenues could decrease and we may be unable to expand our presence. We earn fees for managing and franchising hotels and other properties. The viability of our management and franchising business depends on our ability to establish and maintain good relationships with third-party property owners and franchisees. Third-party developers, property owners and franchisees are focused on maximizing the value of their investment and working with a management company or franchisor that can help them be successful. The effectiveness of our management, the value of our brands and the rapport that we maintain with our third-party property owners and franchisees impact renewals and are all important factors for new third-party property owners or franchisees considering doing business with us. Our relationships with these third parties generate additional property development opportunities that support our growth. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our third-party property owners and franchisees, we may be unable to renew existing agreements or expand our relationships with these owners. Additionally, our opportunities for developing new relationships with additional third parties may be adversely impacted. Contractual and other disagreements with third-party property owners or franchisees could make us liable to them or result in litigation costs or other expenses, which could lower our profits. Our management and franchise agreements require us and third-party property owners or franchisees to comply with operational and performance conditions that are subject to interpretation and could result in disagreements. Additionally, some courts have applied principles of agency law and related fiduciary standards to managers of third-party hotel properties such as us, which means, among other things, that property owners may assert the right to terminate management agreements even where the agreements do not expressly provide for termination. In the event of any such termination, we may need to negotiate or enforce our right to damages that may not equal expected profitability over the term of the agreement. We generally seek to resolve any disagreements with our third-party property owners or franchisees amicably. Formal dispute resolution occurs through arbitration, if provided under the applicable management or franchise agreement, or through litigation. We cannot predict the outcome of any such arbitration or litigation, the effect of any adverse judgment of a court or arbitrator against us or the amount of any settlement that we may enter into with any third party. We are exposed to the risks resulting from significant investments in owned and leased real estate, which could increase our costs, reduce our profits, limit our ability to respond to market conditions or restrict our growth strategy. Our proportion of owned properties, as compared to the number of properties that we manage or franchise for third-party owners, is larger than that of some of our competitors. Real estate ownership and leasing is subject to risks not applicable to managed or franchised properties, including: • governmental regulations relating to real estate ownership; 30 Table of Contents • real estate, insurance, zoning, tax, environmental and eminent domain laws; • the ongoing need for owner funded capital improvements and expenditures to maintain or upgrade properties; • risks associated with mortgage debt, including the possibility of default, fluctuating interest rate levels and the availability of replacement financing; • fluctuations in real estate values or potential impairments in the value of our assets; and • the relative illiquidity of real estate compared to some other assets. The negative impact on profitability and cash flow generation from a decline in revenues is more pronounced in owned properties because we, as the owner, bear the risk of their high fixed-cost structure. The need to maintain and renovate owned properties can present challenges, especially when cash generated from operations has declined. The effectiveness of any cost-cutting efforts is limited by the fixed-cost nature of our business. As a result, we may not be able to offset revenue reductions through cost cutting, which could further reduce our margins. During times of economic distress, declining demand and declining earnings often result in declining asset values. In an unfavorable market, we may not be able to sell properties in the short term. Accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. In addition, because our strategy to use proceeds from sales of real property to support our growth depends in part on our ability to sell selected properties, any inability to do so could impair our growth strategy. Economic and other conditions may adversely impact the valuation of our assets resulting in impairment charges that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and earnings. We hold significant amounts of goodwill, intangible assets, long-lived assets and equity method investments. On a regular basis, we evaluate our assets for impairment based on various triggers, including actual operating losses and trends of expected demand and profitability, as described in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” These evaluations have, in the past, resulted in impairment charges for certain of these assets based on the specific facts and circumstances surrounding those assets. Our operating results for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 included $6 million and $69 million, respectively, of total net impairment charges attributable to Hyatt Hotels Corporation, related primarily to our interests in unconsolidated hospitality ventures, vacation ownership properties and certain owned hotels. We may incur additional impairment charges, which could be material and negatively affect our results of operations and earnings. We have a limited ability to manage third-party risks associated with our hospitality venture investments, which could reduce our revenues, increase our costs, lower our profits and increase our liabilities. We participate in hospitality ventures with third parties. In the future, we may also buy and develop properties in hospitality ventures with the sellers of the properties, affiliates of the sellers, developers or other third parties. Our hospitality venture partners may have shared or majority control over the operations of our hospitality ventures. As a result, our investments in hospitality ventures involve risks that are different from the risks involved in investing in real estate independently. These risks include the possibility that our hospitality ventures or our partners: • go bankrupt or otherwise are unable to meet their capital contribution obligations; • have economic or business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our business interests or goals; • are in a position to take action contrary to our instructions, our requests, our policies, our objectives or applicable laws; 31 Table of Contents • subject the property to liabilities exceeding those contemplated; • take actions that reduce our return on investment; or • take actions that harm our reputation or restrict our ability to run our business. For these and other reasons, it could be more difficult for us to sell our interest in any hospitality venture or to pursue the venture’s activities, which could reduce our ability to address any problems we may have with those properties or respond to market conditions in the future and could lead to impairments of such ventures. As a result, our investments in hospitality ventures could lead to impasses with our partners or situations that could harm the hospitality venture, which could reduce our revenues, increase our costs and lower our profits. In addition, in conjunction with financing obtained for our unconsolidated hospitality ventures, we may provide standard indemnifications to lenders for loss, liability or damage occurring as a result of our actions or actions of the other hospitality venture owners. If our hospitality ventures fail to provide information that is required to be included in our financial statements, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results. Preparing our financial statements requires us to have access to information regarding the results of operations, financial position and cash flows of our hospitality ventures. Any deficiencies in our hospitality ventures’ internal controls over financial reporting may affect our ability to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud. Such deficiencies could also result in restatements of, or other adjustments to, our previously reported or announced operating results, which could diminish investor confidence and reduce the market price for our shares. Additionally, if our hospitality ventures are unable to provide this information for any meaningful period or fail to meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to satisfy our financial reporting obligations or timely file our periodic reports. Cash distributions from our hospitality ventures could be limited by factors outside our control that could reduce our return on investment and our ability to generate liquidity from these hospitality ventures. Although our hospitality ventures may generate positive cash flow, in some cases these hospitality ventures may be unable to distribute that cash to the hospitality venture partners. Additionally, in some cases our hospitality venture partners control distributions, and may choose to leave capital in the hospitality venture rather than distribute it. Because our ability to generate liquidity from our hospitality ventures depends on the hospitality ventures’ ability to distribute capital to us, tax restrictions or decisions of our hospitality venture partners could reduce our return on these investments. We include our pro rata share of Adjusted EBITDA attributable to our unconsolidated hospitality ventures in our owned and leased hotels segment Adjusted EBITDA and our consolidated Adjusted EBITDA regardless of whether the cash flow of those ventures is, or can be, distributed to us. We may seek to expand through acquisitions of and investments in other businesses and properties, or through alliances; and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets, any of which may be unsuccessful or divert our management’s attention. We intend to consider strategic and complementary acquisitions of and investments in other businesses, properties, brands or other assets. Furthermore, we may pursue these opportunities in alliance with existing or prospective owners of managed or franchised properties. In many cases, we will be competing for these opportunities with third parties that may have substantially greater financial resources than we do. Acquisitions or investments in businesses, properties, brands or assets, as well as these alliances, are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to: • issuing shares of stock that could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders; • spending cash and incurring debt; 32 Table of Contents • assuming contingent liabilities; • contributing properties or related assets to hospitality ventures that could result in recognition of losses; or • creating additional expenses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that we will actually realize any anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, investments or alliances. There may be high barriers to entry in many key markets and scarcity of available development and investment opportunities. Similarly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain financing for acquisitions or investments on attractive terms or at all, or that the ability to obtain financing will not be restricted by the terms of our revolving credit facility or other indebtedness we may incur. The success of any such acquisitions or investments will also depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the acquisition or investment with our existing operations. We may experience difficulty with integrating acquired businesses, properties or other assets, including difficulties relating to: • coordinating sales, distribution and marketing functions; • integrating technology information systems; and • preserving the important licensing, distribution, marketing, customer, labor and other relationships of the acquired assets. In 2011, we acquired from LodgeWorks 20 hotels, branding and management rights to an additional four hotels and other assets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate the acquired assets with our existing operations or that we will actually realize any anticipated benefits from this acquisition. Divestment of some of our properties or assets may yield returns below our investment criteria. In some circumstances, sales of properties or other assets may result in losses. In addition, any such acquisitions, investments, dispositions or alliances could demand significant attention from our management that would otherwise be available for our regular business operations, which could harm our business. We may not be successful in executing our strategy of disposing of selected assets, which could hinder our ability to expand our presence in markets that will enhance and expand our brand preference. We regularly review our business to identify properties or other assets that we believe are in markets or of a property type that may not benefit us as much as other markets or property types. One of our strategies is to selectively dispose of hotel properties and use sale proceeds to fund our growth in markets that will enhance and expand our brand presence. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate any such sales on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that we will actually realize any anticipated benefits from such sales. Dispositions of real estate assets are particularly difficult in the current economic environment, as financing alternatives are limited for potential buyers. The current economic environment and the credit crisis adversely affected the real estate market and caused a reduction in sales of hotel properties. Our inability to sell assets, or to sell such assets at attractive prices, could have an adverse impact on our ability to realize proceeds for reinvestment and hinder our ability to expand our business. In addition, even if we are successful in consummating sales of selected properties, such dispositions may yield returns below our investment criteria and result in losses, which could negatively affect operating results for the period in which such sales occur. Moreover, from time to time, we may market and evaluate the potential sale of non-strategic assets without committing to the consummation of such sale for various reasons, including a lack of acceptable purchasers, undesirable market conditions or other factors. Our affirmative decision not to proceed with any such sale transaction may be perceived as an inability to execute our strategy. 33 Table of Contents Timing, budgeting and other risks could delay our efforts to develop, redevelop or renovate the properties that we own, or vacation ownership developments that we undertake, or make these activities more expensive, which could reduce our profits or impair our ability to compete effectively. We must maintain and renovate the properties that we own in order to remain competitive, maintain the value and brand standards of our properties and comply with applicable laws and regulations. We also selectively undertake ground-up construction of properties and vacation ownership developments which may span multiple phases and often take years to complete. Often these projects include joint venture partners. These efforts are subject to a number of risks, including: • construction delays or cost overruns (including labor and materials) that may increase project costs; • obtaining zoning, occupancy and other required permits or authorizations; • changes in economic conditions that may result in weakened or lack of demand or negative project returns; • governmental restrictions on the size or kind of development; • force majeure events, including earthquakes, tornados, hurricanes, floods or tsunamis; and • design defects that could increase costs. Developing new properties typically involves lengthy development periods during which significant amounts of capital must be funded before the properties can begin to operate. If the cost of funding these developments or renovations exceeds budgeted amounts, profits could be reduced. Further, due to the lengthy development cycle, adverse economic conditions may alter or impede our development plans, thereby resulting in incremental costs to us or potential impairment charges. Moreover, during the early stages of operations, charges related to interest expense and depreciation may substantially detract from, or even outweigh, the profitability of certain new property investments. Similarly, the timing of capital improvements can affect property performance, including occupancy and average daily rate, particularly if we need to close a significant number of rooms or other facilities, such as ballrooms, meeting spaces or restaurants. For example, we recently completed broad-scope renovation projects at five owned properties. The displacement caused by these renovations negatively impacted owned and leased segment results for the third and fourth quarter of 2010, and the first, second and third quarters of 2011. Moreover, the investments that we make may fail to improve the performance of the properties in the manner that we expect. If we are not able to begin operating properties under development or renovation as scheduled, or if renovation investments adversely affect or fail to improve performance, our ability to compete effectively could be diminished and our revenues could be reduced. If our third-party property owners, including our hospitality venture partners, are unable to repay or refinance loans secured by the mortgaged properties, our revenues, profits and capital resources could be reduced and our business could be harmed. Many of the properties that our third-party property owners and our hospitality venture partners own are pledged as collateral for mortgage loans entered into when such properties were purchased or refinanced. If our third-party property owners or our hospitality venture partners are unable to repay or refinance maturing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all, the lenders could declare a default, accelerate the related debt and repossess the property. In the current economic environment, a number of property owners are experiencing financial difficulties and the properties they own are vulnerable to financial stress. Debt defaults could lead third-party property owners or our hospitality venture partners to sell the property on unfavorable terms or, in the case of secured debt, to convey the mortgaged property to the lender. For example, during the second quarter of 2010, 34 Table of Contents the consolidated venture that owned the Hyatt Regency Princeton did not have sufficient cash flow to meet debt service requirements under its mortgage loan. The assets and operations of the Hyatt Regency Princeton secured this mortgage. In September 2010, the ownership interest in the Hyatt Regency Princeton was transferred to its lender through a deed in lieu of foreclosure transaction. The hotel continues to be operated as a Hyatt-branded hotel. Any similar sales or repossessions could, in certain cases, result in the termination of our management agreements or eliminate any anticipated income and cash flows from, and, if applicable, our invested capital in, such property, which could harm our business. If we or our third-party owners, franchisees or development partners are unable to access the capital necessary to fund current operations or implement our plans for growth, our profits could be reduced and our ability to compete effectively could be diminished. The hospitality industry is a capital intensive business that requires significant capital expenditures to develop, operate, maintain and renovate properties. Access to the capital that we or our third-party owners, franchisees or development partners need to finance the construction of new properties or to maintain and renovate existing properties is critical to the continued growth of our business and our revenues. The availability of capital or the conditions under which we or our third-party owners, franchisees or development partners can obtain capital can have a significant impact on the overall level, cost and pace of future development and therefore the ability to grow our revenues. The most recent economic downturn caused credit markets to experience significant disruption severely reducing liquidity and credit availability. Such disruptions may diminish the ability and desire of existing and potential development partners to access capital necessary to develop properties. Our ability to access additional capital could also be limited by the terms of our revolving credit facility, which restricts our ability to incur debt under certain circumstances. Additionally, if one or more of the financial institutions that support our revolving credit facility fails, we may not be able to find a replacement, which would reduce the availability of funds that we can borrow under the facility. If we are forced to spend larger amounts of cash from operating activities than anticipated to operate, maintain or renovate existing properties, then our ability to use cash for other purposes, including acquisition or development of properties, could be limited and our profits could be reduced. Similarly, if we cannot access the capital we need to fund our operations or implement our growth strategy, we may need to postpone or cancel planned renovations or developments, which could impair our ability to compete effectively and harm our business. If we fail to meet performance standards under a contractual performance obligation, our profits could be reduced. In connection with the acquisition of the AmeriSuites brand in 2005, we assumed obligations under a management agreement with a third-party owner of multiple properties to make payments based on specified thresholds for those properties. As a result of the removal of rooms from inventory during renovation of the subject properties upon conversion to the Hyatt Place brand and due to the decline in demand for lodging products and services as a result of the economic downturn, we are obligated to make payments in certain circumstances under this agreement up to a maximum of $50 million (of which $29 million has been paid over the life of the agreement through December 31, 2011). These payments could lower our profits and reduce our cash flows. If we become liable for losses related to loans we have provided or guaranteed to third parties, our profits could be reduced. At times, we make loans for hotel development expenditures when we enter into management or franchise agreements with third parties, including hospitality ventures. In certain circumstances we may also provide senior 35 Table of Contents secured financing or subordinated forms of financing (also referred to as mezzanine financing) to third-party owners. For example, in 2008, we made a $278 million loan to an unconsolidated hospitality venture in order to finance its purchase of the Hyatt Regency Waikiki Beach Resort and Spa. We could suffer losses if third-party property owners or franchisees default on loans that we provide. In 2008 we wrote off a $61 million mezzanine loan that was fully reserved for in 2007. To secure financing for six of our unconsolidated hospitality ventures, we have provided to third-party lenders financial guarantees related to the timely repayment of all or a portion of the associated debt. The guarantees are limited to our share of the underlying obligation. As of December 31, 2011, our maximum contingent liability was $56 million. If we are liable for losses related to loans we have provided or guaranteed to third parties, our costs could increase and our profits could fall. In any particular period, our expenses may not decrease at the same rate that our revenues may decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our net cash flows, margins and profits. Many of the expenses associated with managing, franchising or owning hotels and residential and vacation ownership properties are relatively fixed. These expenses include: • personnel costs; • interest; • rent; • property taxes; • insurance; and • utilities. If we are unable to decrease these costs significantly or rapidly when demand for our hotels and other properties decreases, the decline in our revenues could have a particularly adverse impact on our net cash flows and profits. This effect can be especially pronounced during periods of economic contraction or slow economic growth, such as the recent economic recession. Economic downturns generally affect the results derived from owned property more significantly than those derived by managers and franchisors given the greater exposure that the owners have to the properties’ performance. During the recent economic downturn, our revenues declined at a greater rate than our costs. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2009, our consolidated revenues declined by 13.2% while our direct and selling, general and administrative expenses declined by 5.4%, compared to the same period in 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the revenues of our owned and leased hotels declined by 16.7%, while corresponding owned and leased hotel expenses declined by 7.7%, compared to the same period in 2008. Where cost-cutting efforts are insufficient to offset declines in revenues, we could experience a material decline in margins and potentially negative cash flows. If we are unable to establish and maintain key distribution arrangements for our properties, the demand for our rooms and our revenues could fall. Some of the rooms at hotels and resorts that we manage, franchise or own are booked through third-party internet travel intermediaries and online travel service providers. We also engage third-party intermediaries, including travel agencies and meeting and event management companies, who collect fees by charging our hotels and resorts a commission on room revenues. A failure by our distributors to attract or retain their customer bases could lower demand for hotel rooms and, in turn, reduce our revenues. 36 Table of Contents If bookings by these third-party intermediaries increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions or other significant contract concessions from us, increasing the overall cost of these third-party distribution channels. Some of our distribution agreements are not exclusive, have a short term, are terminable at will, or are subject to early termination provisions. The loss of distributors, increased distribution costs, or the renewal of distribution agreements on significantly less favorable terms could adversely impact our business. If the volume of sales made through third-party internet travel intermediaries increases significantly, consumer loyalty to our brand could decrease and our revenues could fall. We expect to derive most of our business from traditional channels of distribution and our website. However, consumers now use internet travel intermediaries regularly. Some of these intermediaries are attempting to increase the importance of generic quality indicators (such as “four-star downtown hotel”) at the expense of brand identification. These agencies hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their reservation system rather than to our brands. If the volume of sales made through internet travel intermediaries increases significantly and consumers develop stronger loyalties to these intermediaries rather than to our brands, our business and revenues could be harmed. In addition, we have recently co-founded Hotel JV Services, LLC, which does business as RoomKey.com, a third party website offering a metasearch engine for hotel rooms that allows customers to book rooms directly with a wide variety of suppliers. We cannot assure you that this venture will either positively impact our business or effectively compete with third party internet travel intermediaries. If we are not able to develop new initiatives, including new brands, successfully, our business and profitability could be harmed. We often develop and launch new initiatives, including new brands or marketing programs, which can be a time-consuming and expensive process. For example, in 2007 we launched our Andaz brand, and in 2011 we began rebranding our Hyatt Summerfield Suites extended stay brand to Hyatt House. We have invested capital and resources in owned real estate, property development, brand development and brand promotion. If such initiatives are not well received by our associates, guests and owners, they may not have the intended effect. We may not be able to recover the costs incurred in developing Andaz, launching Hyatt House or other initiatives or to realize their intended or projected benefits, which could lower our profits. Labor shortages could restrict our ability to operate our properties or grow our business or result in increased labor costs that could reduce our profits. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, train, manage and engage our associates. Our properties are staffed 24 hours a day, seven days a week by thousands of associates around the world. If we and our franchisees are unable to attract, retain, train and engage skilled associates, our ability to manage and staff our properties adequately could be impaired, which could reduce customer satisfaction. Staffing shortages could also hinder our ability to grow and expand our business. Because payroll costs are a major component of the operating expenses at our properties, a shortage of skilled labor could also require higher wages that would increase our labor costs, which could reduce our profits and the profits of our third-party owners. Negotiations of collective bargaining agreements, attempts by labor organizations to organize additional groups of our associates or changes in labor laws could disrupt our operations, increase our labor costs or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. Certain of our properties are subject to collective bargaining agreements, similar agreements or regulations enforced by governmental authorities. If relationships with our associates, other field personnel or the unions that represent them become adverse, the properties we manage, franchise or own could experience labor disruptions such as strikes, lockouts and public demonstrations. Labor disruptions, which are generally more likely when 37 Table of Contents collective bargaining agreements are being renegotiated, could harm our relationship with our associates or cause us to lose guests. Further, adverse publicity in the marketplace related to union messaging could further harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services. Labor regulation could lead to higher wage and benefit costs, changes in work rules that raise operating expenses, legal costs, and limitations on our ability or the ability of our third-party property owners and franchisees to take cost saving measures during economic downturns. We do not have the ability to control the negotiations of collective bargaining agreements covering unionized labor employed by third-party property owners and franchisees. We and our third-party property owners and franchisees may also become subject to additional collective bargaining agreements in the future. Potential changes in the federal regulatory scheme could make it easier for unions to organize groups of our associates. If such changes take effect, more of our associates or other field personnel could be subject to increased organizational efforts, which could potentially lead to disruptions or require more of our management’s time to address unionization issues. These or similar agreements, legislation or changes in regulations could disrupt our operations, hinder our ability to cross-train and cross-promote our associates due to prescribed work rules and job classifications, reduce our profitability, or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. The loss of our senior executives or key field personnel, such as our general managers, could significantly harm our business. Our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the efforts and skills of our senior executives. We have entered into employment letter agreements with certain of our senior executives. However, we cannot guarantee that these individuals will remain with us. Finding suitable replacements for our senior executives could be difficult. We currently do not have a life insurance policy or key person insurance policy with respect to any of our senior executives. Losing the services of one or more of these senior executives could adversely affect our strategic relationships, including relationships with our third-party property owners, franchisees, hospitality venture partners and vendors, and limit our ability to execute our business strategies. We also rely on the general managers at each of our owned and managed properties to run daily operations and oversee our associates. These general managers are trained professionals in the hospitality industry and have extensive experience in many markets worldwide. The failure to retain, train or successfully manage our general managers for our properties could negatively affect our operations. Because we derive a portion of our revenues from operations outside the United States, the risks of doing business internationally could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business. We currently manage, franchise or own hotels and resorts in 45 countries around the world. Our operations outside the United States represented approximately 21% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. We expect that revenues from our international operations will continue to account for an increasing portion of our total revenues. As a result, we are subject to the risks of doing business outside the United States, including: • the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments relating to investments and operations, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad; • limitations/penalties on the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings; • import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in regulatory requirements, including imposition of tariffs or embargoes, export regulations and controls and other trade restrictions; • political and economic instability; 38 Table of Contents • the difficulty of managing an organization doing business in many jurisdictions; • potential negative consequences from changes in taxation policies and currency exchange rate fluctuations or currency restructurings; • uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for onerous contract clauses; and • rapid changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or U.S. anti-boycott legislation. While these factors and the impact of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business. Exchange rate fluctuations or currency restructurings could result in significant foreign currency gains and losses or lead to costs and risks related to exchange rate hedging activities. Conducting business in currencies other than U.S. dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates or currency restructurings that could have a negative impact on our financial results. We translate the value of foreign currency-denominated amounts into U.S. dollars, and we report our consolidated financial results of operations in U.S. dollars. Because the value of the U.S. dollar fluctuates relative to other currencies, revenues that we generate or expenses that we incur in other currencies could significantly increase or decrease our revenues or expenses as reported in U.S. dollars. Our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations or currency restructurings will continue to grow if the relative contribution of our operations outside the United States increases. We enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, referred to as hedging activities. However, these hedging activities may not eliminate foreign currency risk entirely and involve costs and risks of their own, such as ongoing management time and expertise and external costs related to executing hedging activities. If purchasers default on the loans we provide to finance their purchases of our vacation ownership properties, the revenues and profits we derive from our vacation ownership business could be reduced. We provide secured financing to some of the purchasers of our vacation ownership properties in respect of which we are subject to the risk of purchaser default. If a purchaser defaults under the financing we provide, we could be forced to write off the loan and reclaim ownership of the property. If the property has declined in value, we may incur impairment charges or losses as a result. In addition, we may be unable to resell the property in a timely manner or at the same price. As of December 31, 2011, we had $42 million of mortgage receivables, net of allowances associated with these activities. In addition, if a purchaser of a vacation ownership property defaults on the related loan during the early part of the amortization period, we may not have recovered the marketing, selling and general and administrative costs associated with the sale of such vacation ownership property. If we are unable to recover any of the principal amount of the loan from a defaulting purchaser, or if our allowances for losses from such defaults are inadequate, the profits we derive from our vacation ownership business could be reduced. Private resales of our vacation ownership interests could lower the demand or prices for our vacation ownership properties, which could reduce our revenues and our profits. We develop, sell or manage vacation ownership properties in select locations as part of the Hyatt Residence Club, which is changing its name from Hyatt Vacation Club. Private resales by owners of these vacation ownership interests in the secondary market could reduce demand or prices for new vacation ownership interests, particularly if the owners sell their interests at a significant discount. Lower demand or prices for our vacation ownership interests could reduce our revenues and our profits. 39 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may increase our costs, reduce our profits or limit our growth. Our business, properties and associates are subject to a variety of laws and regulations. Generally, these laws and regulations address our sales and marketing efforts, our handling of privacy issues and customer data, our ability to obtain licenses for business operations such as sales of food and liquor, immigration matters, environmental, health and safety, gaming, competition and trade laws, among other things. Our franchising and vacation ownership businesses and our operations outside the United States are also subject to laws and regulations affecting those businesses. Franchising Our franchising business is subject to various state laws, as well as to regulations enacted by the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”). A number of states require franchisors to register with the state or to make extensive disclosures to potential franchisees in connection with offers and sales in those states. The FTC also regulates the manner and substance of our disclosures to prospective franchisees. In addition, several states have “franchise relationship laws” or “business opportunity laws” that limit the ability of franchisors to terminate franchise agreements or to withhold consent to the renewal or transfer of those agreements. Vacation Ownership Our vacation ownership properties are subject to extensive state regulation in both the state in which the property is located and the states in which the property is marketed and sold. Our marketing for these properties is also subject to federal regulation of certain marketing practices, including federal telemarketing regulations. In addition, the laws of most states in which we sell vacation ownership interests give the purchaser the right to rescind the purchase contract within a specified time period. International Operations Our business operations in countries outside the United States are subject to a number of U.S. federal laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) as well as trade sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) and the Commerce Department. The FCPA is intended to prohibit bribery of foreign officials or parties and requires public companies in the United States to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect those companies’ transactions. OFAC and the Commerce Department administer and enforce economic and trade sanctions based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations and individuals. If we, or our hospitality ventures, fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be exposed to claims for damages, financial penalties, reputational harm, incarceration of our employees or restrictions on our operation or ownership of hotels and other properties, including the termination of our management, franchise and ownership rights. These restrictions could increase our costs of operations, reduce our profits or cause us to forgo development opportunities that would otherwise support our growth. The extensive environmental requirements to which we are subject could increase our environmental costs and liabilities, reduce our profits or limit our ability to run our business. Our operations and the properties we manage, own and develop are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations of various federal, state, local and foreign governments, including requirements addressing: • health and safety; • the use, management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes; • discharges of waste materials into the environment, such as refuse or sewage; and • air emissions. 40 Table of Contents We could be subject to liability under some of these laws for the costs of investigating or remediating hazardous substances or wastes on, under, or in real property we currently or formerly manage, own or develop, or third-party sites where we sent hazardous substances or wastes for disposal. We could be held liable under these laws regardless of whether we knew of, or were at fault in connection with, the presence or release of any such hazardous or toxic substances or wastes. Some of these laws make each covered person responsible for all of the costs involved, even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination. Furthermore, a person who arranges for hazardous substances or wastes to be transported, disposed of or treated offsite, such as at disposal or treatment facilities, may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation if those substances are released into the environment by third parties at such disposal or treatment facilities. The presence or release of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, or the failure to properly clean up such materials, could cause us to incur significant costs, or jeopardize our ability to develop, use, sell or rent real property we own or operate or to borrow using such property as collateral. Other laws and regulations require us to manage, abate or remove materials containing hazardous substances such as mold, lead or asbestos during demolitions, renovations or remodeling at properties that we manage, own or develop or to obtain permits for certain of our equipment or operations. The costs of such management, abatement, removal or permitting could be substantial. Complying with these laws and regulations, or addressing violations arising under them, could increase our environmental costs and liabilities, reduce our profits or limit our ability to run our business. Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations related to global climate change, air quality, or other environmental and health concerns may be adopted or become applicable to us. The identification of new areas of contamination, a change in the extent or known scope of contamination or changes in cleanup requirements, or the adoption of new requirements governing our operations could have a material adverse effect on our results or operations, financial condition and business. If the insurance that we carry, our owners carry or our franchisees carry does not sufficiently cover damage or other potential losses or liabilities involving properties that we own, manage or franchise, our profits could be reduced. We carry, our owners carry and our franchisees carry insurance from solvent insurance carriers that we believe is adequate for foreseeable losses and with terms and conditions that are reasonable and customary. Nevertheless, market forces beyond our control could limit the scope of the insurance coverage that we, our owners or our franchisees can obtain or restrict our ability, our owners’ ability or our franchisees’ ability to buy insurance coverage at reasonable rates. In the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage that we carry, our owners carry or our franchisees carry may not be sufficient to pay the full value of our financial obligations, our liabilities or the replacement cost of any lost investment or property loss. Because certain types of losses are significantly uncertain, they can be uninsurable or too expensive to insure. In some cases, these factors could result in certain losses being completely uninsured. As a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues, profits, management fees or incentive income from the property, we could remain obligated for performance guarantees in favor of third-party property owners or for their debt or other financial obligations, suffer an uninsured or underinsured property loss and we may not have sufficient insurance to cover awards of damages resulting from our liabilities. If the insurance that we carry, our owners carry or our franchisees carry does not sufficiently cover damages or other losses or liabilities, our profits could be adversely affected. Any failure to protect our trademarks and intellectual property could reduce the value of our brand names and harm our business. The reputation and perception of our brands is critical to our success in the hospitality industry. If our trademarks or intellectual property are copied or used without authorization, the value of our brands, their reputation, our competitive advantages and our goodwill could be harmed. We regularly apply to register our trademarks in the United States and other countries. However, we cannot assure you that those trademark 41 Table of Contents registrations will be granted or that the steps we take to protect our trademarks or intellectual property in the United States and other countries will be adequate to prevent others, including third parties or former employees, from copying or using our trademarks or intellectual property without authorization. Our intellectual property is also vulnerable to unauthorized use in some countries outside the United States, where we may not be adequately protected by local law. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. As we have in the past, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. Litigation of this type could be costly, force us to divert our resources, lead to counterclaims or other claims against us or otherwise harm our business. Any failure to maintain and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property could reduce the value of our brands and harm our business. Third-party claims that we infringe their intellectual property rights could subject us to damages and other costs and expenses. Third parties may make claims against us for infringing their intellectual property rights. Any such claims, even those without merit, could: • be expensive and time consuming to defend; • force us to stop providing products or services that use the intellectual property that is being challenged; • force us to redesign or rebrand our products or services; • divert our management’s attention and resources; • force us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property; or • force us to pay significant damages. In addition, we may be required to indemnify third-party owners of the hotels we manage or franchisees for any losses they incur as a result of any such infringement claims. Any necessary royalty or licensing agreements may not be available to us on acceptable terms. Any costs, lost revenues, changes to our business or management attention related to intellectual property claims against us, whether successful or not, could impact our business. Adverse judgments or settlements resulting from legal proceedings in which we may be involved in the normal course of our business could reduce our profits or limit our ability to operate our business. In the normal course of our business, we are often involved in various legal proceedings. The outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. If any of these proceedings were to be determined adversely to us or a settlement involving a payment of a material sum of money were to occur, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we could become the subject of future claims by third parties, including current or former third-party property owners, guests who use our properties, our employees, our investors or regulators. Any significant adverse judgments or settlements would reduce our profits and could limit our ability to operate our business. Further, we may incur costs related to claims for which we have appropriate third party indemnity, but such third parties fail to fulfill their contractual obligations. Information technology system failures, delays in the operation of our information technology systems or system enhancement failures could reduce our revenues and profits and harm the reputation of our brands and our business. Our success depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our information technology systems. For example, we depend on our central reservation system, which allows bookings by hotels directly, via 42 Table of Contents telephone through our call centers, by travel agents, online through our website www.hyatt.com, and through our online reservations partners. In addition, we depend on information technology to run our day-to-day operations, including, among others, hotel services and amenities such as guest check-in and check-out, housekeeping and room service and systems for tracking and reporting our financial results and the financial results of our hotels. Our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, break-ins and similar events. The occurrence of any of these natural disasters or unanticipated problems at any of our information technology facilities or any of our call centers could cause interruptions or delays in our business or loss of data, or render us unable to process reservations. In addition, if our information technology systems are unable to provide the information communications capacity that we need, or if our information technology systems suffer problems caused by installing system enhancements, we could experience similar failures or interruptions. If our information technology systems fail and our redundant systems or disaster recovery plans are not adequate to address such failures, or if our property and business interruption insurance does not sufficiently compensate us for any losses that we may incur, our revenues and profits could be reduced and the reputation of our brands and our business could be harmed. Cyber risk and the failure to maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in faulty business decisions, harm to our reputation or subject us to costs, fines or lawsuits. We are required to collect and retain large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information and our various information technology systems enter, process, summarize and report such data. We also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. The integrity and protection of our customer, employee and company data is critical to our business. Our customers expect that we will adequately protect their personal information, and the regulations applicable to security and privacy are increasingly demanding, both in the United States and in other jurisdictions where we operate. We have developed and maintain controls to prevent, and we have a process to identify and mitigate, the theft, loss, fraudulent or unlawful use of customer, employee or company data. We also have what we believe to be adequate and collectible insurance in the event of the theft, loss, fraudulent or unlawful use of customer, employee or company data. A penetrated or compromised data system or the intentional, inadvertent or negligent release or disclosure of data could result in theft, loss, fraudulent or unlawful use of customer, employee or company data which could harm our reputation or result in remedial and other costs, fines or lawsuits and which could be in excess of any available insurance that we have procured. If we fail to stay current with developments in technology necessary for our business, our operations could be harmed and our ability to compete effectively could be diminished. Sophisticated information technology and other systems are instrumental for the hospitality industry, including systems used for our central reservations, revenue management, property management and our Hyatt Gold Passport program, as well as technology systems that we make available to our guests. These information technology and other systems must be refined, updated, or replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis. Developing and maintaining these systems may require significant capital. If we are unable to replace or introduce information technology and other systems as quickly as our competitors or within budgeted costs or schedules when these systems become outdated or need replacing, or if we are unable to achieve the intended benefits of any new information technology or other systems, our operations could be harmed and our ability to compete effectively could be diminished. We may be liable for proposed tax liabilities and the final amount of taxes paid may exceed the amount of applicable reserves, which could reduce our profits. The Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) has completed its examinations of the originally filed consolidated federal income tax returns of Hyatt Hotels Corporation, Hyatt Corporation, AIC and H Group for 43 Table of Contents the taxable years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005. Based on these examinations, we could be liable for up to $32 million of additional taxes and penalties (plus accrued interest). We and our affiliates have filed protests with the IRS Appeals Office contesting these proposed tax liabilities. Our consolidated federal income tax returns for the taxable years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008 (and the amended return for the taxable year ended December 31, 2005) are currently under examination, and we are also subject to ongoing tax audits and disputes in various state, local and foreign jurisdictions. We believe we have established adequate reserves for potential tax liabilities, but the final amount of taxes assessed and paid could exceed the amount of such reserves, which could reduce our profits. Changes in federal, state, local or foreign tax law, interpretations of existing tax law or agreements with tax authorities could affect our profitability and financial condition by increasing our tax costs. We are subject to taxation at the federal, state or provincial and local levels in the United States and various other countries and jurisdictions. Our future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in jurisdictions with differing tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in determinations regarding the jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax. From time to time the U.S. federal, state, local and foreign governments make substantive changes to tax rules and the application thereof, which could result in materially higher corporate taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law or interpretation and could adversely impact profitability. State and local tax authorities have also increased their efforts to increase revenues through changes in tax law and audits. Such changes and proposals, if enacted, could increase our future effective income tax rates. We are a party to certain agreements with foreign tax authorities that reduce or defer the amount of tax we pay. The expiration of such agreements, or changes in circumstances or in interpretation of such agreements, could increase our tax costs. The terms of our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes place restrictions on us and certain of our subsidiaries, reducing operational flexibility and creating default risks. The terms of our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes contain covenants that place restrictions on us and certain of our subsidiaries. The covenants under our revolving credit facility restrict, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional debt, due to a requirement that we satisfy a maximum leverage ratio test and a maximum secured funded debt ratio test; • engage in other business activities or engage in certain transactions with affiliates; • change our fiscal year or change our organizational documents; and • make certain restricted payments. Similarly, the covenants under our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes restrict, among other things, our ability to: • create any liens on certain assets to secure debt; • enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions; or • enter into mergers or consolidations, transfer all or substantially all of our assets or dissolve, liquidate or wind up our affairs. Failure to comply with these restrictive covenants could result in an event of default that, if not waived or cured, if applicable, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our outstanding debt under our revolving credit facility and our senior notes. 44 Table of Contents An increase in interest rates would increase interest costs on our revolving credit facility and any variable rate debt we incur, which could adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt or acquire assets. Interest rates on outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility are either LIBOR-based or based on an alternate base rate, with margins in each case based on our credit rating or, in certain circumstances, our credit rating and leverage ratio. To the extent we borrow under the revolving credit facility, any increase in the interest rate applicable to such borrowings will reduce our cash flows available for other corporate purposes, including investments in our portfolio. Further, rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures and increase interest costs on any debt that is refinanced. We may from time to time enter into agreements such as interest rate swaps or other interest rate hedging contracts. While these agreements may lessen the impact of rising interest rates, they also expose us to the risk that other parties to the agreements will not perform or that the agreements will be unenforceable. In addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to dispose of assets as part of our business strategy. Rating agency downgrades may increase our cost of capital. The interest rate on borrowings and the facility fee under our revolving credit facility are determined by a pricing grid, which is dependent in part on our credit ratings by Standard & Poor’s Rating Group, a division of McGraw Hill, Inc. (“S&P”), and Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”). Lower ratings result in a higher cost of funds. Therefore, subject to any adjustments to the interest rate based on our leverage ratio, if these independent rating agencies were to downgrade our credit ratings or if we no longer have a credit rating from either agency, the cost of our borrowing and the amount of the facility fee under our revolving credit facility will increase as specified in the pricing grid. Additionally, any future downgrade of our credit ratings by the rating agencies could reduce or limit our access to capital and increase our cost of capital. We and a number of our competitors have had either a rating or outlook downgrade by the rating agencies as a result of the recent economic downturn and decreased demand for hospitality products and services. Given the cyclical nature of the hospitality industry and its dependence on the underlying health of the economy, we could be subject to frequent changes in our credit rating. As the economic recovery is expected to be slow in the near term, there is a continuing risk of our credit ratings being revised downward. We have a large amount of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments and are exposed to counterparty risk with respect to these deposits. All of our cash that is not required to fund our daily operating activities is invested in interest bearing investments with a greater focus placed on capital preservation than on investment return. The majority of our cash balances are held on deposit with high quality financial institutions that hold long-term ratings of at least BBB or Baa from S&P or Moody’s, respectively, and in AAA-rated money market funds. As such, we are exposed to counterparty risk on our $534 million of cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2011. During 2010 we established an investment account for purposes of investing a portion of our cash resources. In 2010 and continuing in 2011, we began transferring cash and cash equivalent balances to the account for investment in corporate notes and bonds and U.S. treasuries and agencies. As such, we are exposed to counterparty risk on our $588 million of short-term investments as of December 31, 2011. As a result of becoming a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur increased costs and become subject to additional regulations and requirements, which could lower our profits or make it more difficult to run our business. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We also have incurred and will incur costs associated with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules implemented by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The expenses incurred by public companies generally for reporting and 45 Table of Contents corporate governance purposes have been increasing. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly, although we are currently unable to estimate these costs with any degree of certainty. These laws and regulations could also make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. These laws and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as our executive officers. Furthermore, if we are unable to satisfy our obligations as a public company, we could be subject to delisting of our Class A common stock, fines, sanctions and other regulatory action and potentially civil litigation. Risks Related to Share Ownership and Stockholder Matters Our stock price is likely to be volatile, and you may not be able to resell shares of your Class A common stock at or above the price you paid. The stock market in general, and hospitality companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the underlying businesses. Given that we are a relatively new public company, these fluctuations may be even more pronounced in the trading market for our stock. In addition, in the past few years the financial services industry experienced a period of significant disruption characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions, which led to increased volatility in securities prices and a significant level of intervention from the U.S. and other governments in securities markets. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our Class A common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition to the risks described in this section, several factors that could cause the price of our Class A common stock in the public market to fluctuate significantly include, among others, the following: • quarterly variations in our operating results compared to market expectations; • announcements of acquisitions of or investments in other businesses and properties or dispositions; • announcements of new services or products or significant price reductions by us or our competitors; • size of the public float; • future conversions to and sales of our Class A common stock by current holders of Class B common stock in the public market, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares of Class B common stock intend to sell shares; • stock price performance of our competitors; • fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; • default on our indebtedness or foreclosure of our properties; • changes in senior management or key personnel; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • negative earnings or other announcements by us or other hospitality companies; • downgrades in our credit ratings or the credit ratings of our competitors; • issuances or repurchases of equity or debt securities; and • global economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance. Volatility in the market price of our Class A common stock may prevent investors from being able to sell their Class A common stock at or above the price at which you purchased the stock. As a result, you may suffer a loss on your investment. 46 Table of Contents Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company’s securities. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs, reduce our profits, divert our management’s attention and resources and harm our business. Pritzker family business interests have substantial control over us and have the ability to control the election of directors and other matters submitted to stockholders for approval, which will limit your ability to influence corporate matters or result in actions that you do not believe to be in our interests or your interests. Our Class B common stock is entitled to ten votes per share and our Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Pritzker family business interests beneficially own, in the aggregate, 94,514,138 shares, or approximately 79.0%, of our Class B common stock, representing approximately 57.2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and approximately 76.1% of the total voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, consistent with the voting agreements contained in the Amended and Restated Global Hyatt Agreement and the Amended and Restated Foreign Global Hyatt Agreement, Pritzker family business interests will be able to exert a significant degree of influence or actual control over our management and affairs and over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and any other significant transaction. While the voting agreements are in effect, they may provide our board of directors with the effective control over matters requiring stockholder approval. Because of our dual class ownership structure, Pritzker family business interests will continue to exert a significant degree of influence or actual control over matters requiring stockholder approval, even if they own less than 50% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. This concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters, and the interests of Pritzker family business interests may not coincide with our interests or your interests. As a result, we may take actions that you do not believe to be in our interests or your interests and that could depress our stock price. See also “—Voting agreements entered into with or among our major stockholders, including Pritzker family business interests, will result in a substantial number of our shares being voted consistent with the recommendation of our board of directors, and may limit your ability to influence the election of directors and other matters submitted to stockholders for approval.” In addition, the difference in the voting rights between our Class A common stock and Class B common stock could diminish the value of the Class A common stock to the extent that investors or any potential future purchasers of our common stock ascribe value to the superior voting rights of the Class B common stock. Disputes among Pritzker family members and among Pritzker family members and the trustees of the Pritzker family trusts may result in significant distractions to our management, disrupt our business, have a negative effect on the trading price of our Class A common stock and/or generate negative publicity about Hyatt and the Pritzker family. In the past, disputes have arisen between and among certain Pritzker family members, and between and among beneficiaries of the Pritzker family trusts and the trustees of such trusts, with respect to, among other things, the ownership, operation, governance, and management of certain Pritzker family business interests. In connection with certain of these disputes, claims were alleged, and in certain cases, proceedings were initiated, against certain Pritzker family members, including Thomas J. Pritzker, our executive chairman, and other Pritzker family members, some of whom have been or are our directors, and against the trustees, including Thomas J. Pritzker in his capacity as a co-trustee of the Pritzker family U.S. situs trusts. Such past allegations related to, among others, trust management and administration, and violations of certain trustee duties, including fiduciary duties. Some of these disputes led to significant negative publicity for the Pritzker family. These disputes have been resolved with no admissions or finding of any misconduct. With respect to Hyatt, disputes arose between and among certain Pritzker family members and the trustees of trusts with respect to, among other things, our dual class structure, which became effective prior to the completion of our initial public offering. In particular, certain beneficiaries of Pritzker family trusts expressed 47 Table of Contents concern that there could be a value differential between our Class A and Class B common stock based on the difference in voting rights between those two classes of stock. Additionally, certain beneficiaries of Pritzker family trusts noted that the dual class structure had the effect of extending the duration of the voting and lock-up restrictions under the Global Hyatt Agreement and Foreign Global Hyatt Agreement due to the fact that the duration of those restrictions, as originally drafted, was based, in part, on voting power of the outstanding shares of our stock owned by Pritzker family members and spouses (including any U.S. or non-U.S. situs trusts for the current or future, direct or indirect, vested or contingent, benefit of any Pritzker family members and spouses) rather than on the percentage of the outstanding shares of our stock owned by them. In connection with these disputes, the Global Hyatt Agreement and the Foreign Global Hyatt Agreement were amended and restated in three important respects, as described under Part I, Item 1, “Business—Stockholder Agreements.” First, the agreements were amended and restated to measure the duration of the voting and lock-up restrictions under the Global Hyatt Agreement and Foreign Global Hyatt Agreement on the percentage of outstanding shares, not voting power of shares, of our stock owned by Pritzker family members and spouses (including any U.S. or non-U.S. situs trusts for the current or future, direct or indirect, vested or contingent, benefit of any Pritzker family members and spouses). Second, the agreements were amended and restated to permit Pritzker family members and spouses (including any U.S. or non-U.S. situs trusts for the current or future, direct or indirect, vested or contingent, benefit of any Pritzker family members and spouses) to sell up to 25% of their aggregate holdings of our common stock, measured as of November 4, 2009 (the date of effectiveness of our registration statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-161068) relating to our initial public offering of our Class A common stock), during each 12-month period following the date of effectiveness of such registration statement (without carry-overs), rather than 20% measured on a similar basis (though shares sold in the initial public offering counted toward the first 12-month period’s limit). Additionally, the prohibition on selling shares to any aggregator (i.e., a person who is required to file a Schedule 13D under the Exchange Act, disclosing an intent other than for investment) was removed. Third, the amended and restated agreements provided for the distribution of Hyatt stock from U.S. or non-U.S. situs trusts for the current or future, direct or indirect, vested or contingent, benefit of any Pritzker family members and spouses in consultation with the adult beneficiaries of such trusts as soon as practicable following November 4, 2009, the date of effectiveness of the registration statement relating to our initial public offering of our Class A common stock, subject to the Amended and Restated Global Hyatt Agreement and the Amended and Restated Foreign Global Hyatt Agreement. The distribution of Hyatt stock from the Pritzker family U.S. and non-U.S. situs trusts occurred on August 17, 2010. In connection with such distribution, the trustees of the recipient personal trusts became party to the Amended and Restated Global Hyatt Agreement and Amended and Restated Foreign Global Hyatt Agreement, as applicable. As a result of such changes to the agreements, Pritzker family members and spouses (including any U.S. or non-U.S. situs trusts for the current or future, direct or indirect, vested or contingent, benefit of any Pritzker family members and spouses) may now sell up to 100% of their common stock over a shorter period of time. See Part I, Item 1, “Business—Stockholder Agreements” and “—A significant number of shares of Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of Class B common stock could be sold into the market, which could depress our stock price even if our business is doing well.” As part of these discussions, we agreed to provide, in the 2009 Registration Rights Agreement, for a shelf registration in order to facilitate sales of common stock by domestic and foreign Pritzker stockholders. Disputes among Pritzker family members, and between and among beneficiaries of the Pritzker family trusts and the trustees of such trusts, including with respect to Hyatt, may arise or continue in the future. If such disputes occur, they may result in significant distractions to our management, disrupt our business, have a negative effect on the trading price of our Class A common stock and/or generate negative publicity about Hyatt and Pritzker family members, including Pritzker family members involved with Hyatt. 48 Table of Contents Voting agreements entered into with or among our major stockholders, including Pritzker family business interests, will result in a substantial number of our shares being voted consistent with the recommendation of our board of directors, and may limit your ability to influence the election of directors and other matters submitted to stockholders for approval. Pritzker family business interests, which beneficially own, directly or indirectly, 94,514,138 shares, or 57.2% of our total outstanding common stock and control approximately 76.1% of our total voting power, have entered into a voting agreement with respect to all shares of common stock beneficially owned by Pritzker family business interests. During the term of the voting agreement, which expires on the later to occur of January 1, 2015, and the date upon which more than 75% of the Company’s fully diluted shares of common stock is owned by non-Pritzker family business interests, Pritzker family business interests have agreed to vote their shares of our common stock consistent with the recommendation of our board of directors with respect to all matters (assuming agreement as to any such matter by a majority of a minimum of three independent directors (excluding for such purposes any Pritzker)) or, in the case of transactions involving us and an affiliate, assuming agreement of all of such minimum of three independent directors (excluding for such purposes any Pritzker). In addition, other existing stockholders, including entities affiliated with Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Madrone GHC, beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 21.0% of our outstanding Class B common stock, representing approximately 15.2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and approximately 20.2% of the total voting power of our outstanding common stock. These entities have entered into a voting agreement with us, with respect to the shares of Class B common stock that they beneficially own, and have agreed to vote their shares of Class B common stock consistent with the recommendation of our board of directors, without any separate requirement that our independent directors agree with the recommendation. These voting agreements expire on the later to occur of December 31, 2013 and the date that Thomas J. Pritzker is no longer chairman of our board of directors. See Part I, Item 1, “Business—Stockholder Agreements.” While the voting agreements are in effect, they may provide our board of directors with effective control over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and any other significant transaction. This is because the number of our shares that are required by the voting agreements to be voted consistent with the recommendation of our board of directors will be sufficient to determine the outcome of the election of directors and other matters submitted to stockholders for approval. This will limit your ability to influence the election of directors and other matters submitted to stockholders for approval, even if you do not believe those actions to be in our interests or your interests. For instance, the voting agreements may have the effect of delaying or preventing a transaction that would result in a change of control, if our board of directors does not recommend that our stockholders vote in favor of the transaction, even if you or some or all of our major stockholders believe that the transaction is in our interests or your interests. On the other hand, the voting agreements may result in our stockholders approving a transaction that would result in a change of control, if our board of directors recommends that our stockholders vote in favor of the transaction, even if you or some or all of our major stockholders believe that the transaction is not in our interests or your interests. A significant number of shares of Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of Class B common stock could be sold into the market, which could depress our stock price even if our business is doing well. Future sales in the public market of Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of Class B common stock, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares of Class B common stock intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our Class A common stock. As of January 31, 2012, we had 45,567,303 shares of Class A common stock outstanding and 119,614,584 shares of Class B common stock outstanding. Of the outstanding shares, 45,523,221 shares of Class A common stock are freely tradable in the public market without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) unless these shares are held by any of our “affiliates,” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act (“Rule 144”). The remaining 44,082 outstanding shares of Class A common stock and 49 Table of Contents 119,614,584 outstanding shares of Class B common stock are deemed “restricted securities,” as that term is defined in Rule 144. Restricted securities may be sold in the public market only if they are registered under the Securities Act or they qualify for an exemption from registration under Rule 144 or Rule 701 under the Securities Act (“Rule 701”). Substantially all of these restricted securities, together with 11,640 shares of Class A common stock previously registered, are subject to contractual lock-up and certain other restrictions contained in the Amended and Restated Global Hyatt Agreement, the Amended and Restated Foreign Global Hyatt Agreement, or the 2007 Stockholders’ Agreement as described in Part I, Item 1, “Business—Stockholder Agreements.” These contractual restrictions may be amended, waived or terminated by the parties to those agreements in accordance with the terms of such agreements without our consent and without notice; with respect to the Amended and Restated Global Hyatt Agreement and the Amended and Restated Foreign Global Hyatt Agreement, the 25% limitation on sales of our common stock may, with respect to each 12 month period, be increased to a higher percentage or waived entirely by the unanimous affirmative vote of our independent directors (excluding for such purposes any Pritzker). All shares of Class A common stock, including shares of Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of shares of Class B common stock, will be eligible for resale in compliance with Rule 144 or Rule 701 to the extent the lock-up restrictions contained in the Amended and Restated Global Hyatt Agreement, the Amended and Restated Foreign Global Hyatt Agreement, or the 2007 Stockholders’ Agreement, as applicable, are waived or terminated with respect to such shares. Assuming the lock-up restrictions contained in the Amended and Restated Global Hyatt Agreement, the Amended and Restated Foreign Global Hyatt Agreement, and the 2007 Stockholders’ Agreement are not amended, waived or terminated and that there are no transfers of shares amongst Pritzker family stockholders, and further assuming the parties to these agreements sell the maximum amount permitted to be sold during the first time period that such shares are eligible to be sold as set forth below, and subject to any applicable restrictions contained in such agreements (such as rights of first refusal and requirements that any such sales be made by way of an underwritten public offering or in an otherwise broad distribution sale) and the provisions of Rule 144 and/or Rule 701 under the Securities Act, these restricted securities will be available for sale in the public market as follows: Time Period Number of Shares* During the 12 month period from November 5, 2011 through November 4, 2012 41,927,708 (1) During the 12 month period from November 5, 2012 through November 4, 2013 27,281,277 (2) Anytime after May 10, 2013 6,331,270 (3) During the 12 month period from November 5, 2013 through November 4, 2014 16,458,589 (2) Anytime after May 10, 2014 6,331,271 (4) During the 12 month period from November 5, 2014 through November 4, 2015 7,513,369 (2) During the 12 month period from November 5, 2015 through November 4, 2016 6,419,886 (2) During the 12 month period from November 5, 2016 through November 4, 2017 5,345,272 (2) During the 12 month period from November 5, 2017 through November 4, 2018 2,061,664 (2) * The foregoing numbers are based on information as of January 31, 2012, and assume that the maximum number of shares permitted to be sold during the period from November 5, 2011 through November 4, 2012 are, in fact, sold during such period, and further assume that, for each subsequent period, the maximum number of shares permitted to be sold during each such period are, in fact, sold. To the extent any shares are not sold during the first time period that such shares are eligible to be sold, the number of shares that may be sold in subsequent time periods may change. (1) Includes (a) 6,682,944 shares that are eligible to be sold at any time, (b) 6,331,270 shares that were “early released” on May 13, 2011 under the 2007 Stockholders’ Agreement, provided that such shares are sold in an underwritten public offering or in an otherwise broad distribution sale and subject to the rights of first refusal, “drag along” rights and other restrictions contained in the 2007 Stockholders’ Agreement, and (c) 28,913,494 shares eligible to be sold under the Amended and Restated Global Hyatt Agreement and Amended and Restated Foreign Global Hyatt Agreement. 50 Table of Contents (2) Represents shares eligible to be sold by Pritzker family stockholders under the Amended and Restated Global Hyatt Agreement and Amended and Restated Foreign Global Hyatt Agreement. (3) Represents one-third of the shares eligible to be sold under the 2007 Stockholders’ Agreement upon the three and one-half year anniversary of November 10, 2009 (the closing date of our initial public offering), provided that such shares are sold in an underwritten public offering or in an otherwise broad distribution sale and subject to the rights of first refusal, “drag along” rights and other restrictions contained in the 2007 Stockholders’ Agreement. (4) Represents one-third of the shares eligible to be sold under the 2007 Stockholders’ Agreement upon the four and one-half year anniversary of November 10, 2009 (the closing date of our initial public offering), provided that such shares are sold in an underwritten public offering or in an otherwise broad distribution sale and subject to the rights of first refusal, “drag along” rights and other restrictions contained in the 2007 Stockholders’ Agreement. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, 9,122,652 shares of our Class A common stock were reserved for issuance under the Amended and Restated Hyatt Hotels Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan (the “LTIP”). These shares of Class A common stock will become eligible for sale in the public market once those shares are issued or awarded under our LTIP, subject to provisions of various award agreements and Rule 144, as applicable. In addition, 894,025 shares of our Class A common stock were reserved for issuance under the Hyatt Hotels Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “ESPP”), 1,169,287 shares of our Class A common stock remained available for issuance pursuant to the Amended and Restated Hyatt Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan (the “DCP”) and 300,000 shares of Class A common stock remained available for issuance pursuant to the Hyatt International Hotels Retirement Plan (commonly known as the Field Retirement Plan) (the “FRP”). If any of these holders causes a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our Class A common stock. These sales also could impede our ability to raise future capital. See also “—If holders of shares of our Class B common stock convert their shares of Class B common stock into shares of Class A common stock and exercise their registration rights, a significant number of shares of our Class A common stock could be sold into the market, which could reduce the trading price of our Class A common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital.” We also may issue shares of our Class A common stock from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. If any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares that we may issue may in turn be significant. If holders of shares of our Class B common stock convert their shares of Class B common stock into shares of Class A common stock and exercise their registration rights, a significant number of shares of our Class A common stock could be sold into the market, which could reduce the trading price of our Class A common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital. Holders of 119,614,584 shares of our Class B common stock (or 72.4% of our total outstanding shares of common stock as of January 31, 2012), including Pritzker family business interests and entities affiliated with Goldman, Sachs & Co. and entities affiliated with Madrone Capital, LLC, have rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements registering sales of shares of Class A common stock acquired upon conversion of such Class B common stock or to include sales of such shares of Class A common stock in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or for other stockholders. In order to exercise such registration rights, the holder must be permitted to sell shares of its common stock under applicable lock-up restrictions. See “—A significant number of shares of Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of Class B common stock could be sold into the market, which could depress our stock price even if our business is doing well” and Part I, Item 1, “Business—Stockholder Agreements” for additional information with respect to these lock-up provisions. Subject to compliance with applicable lock-up agreements, shares of Class A common stock sold under the registration statements can be freely sold in the public market. In the event such registration rights are exercised and a large number of shares of Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of shares of 51 Table of Contents Class B common stock are sold in the public market, such sales could reduce the trading price of our Class A common stock. These sales also could impede our ability to raise future capital. Additionally, we will bear all expenses in connection with any such registrations (other than underwriting discounts). During the first quarter of 2011, certain Pritzker family stockholders exercised their rights to require the Company to register an aggregate of 19,442,309 shares of Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of such stockholders’ shares of Class B common stock on a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 pursuant to Rule 415 of the Securities Act. In accordance with the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of October 12, 2009, on February 25, 2011, the Company filed an automatic effective shelf registration statement with the SEC to register the resale of such 19,442,309 shares. In connection with such registration, all other holders of registration rights, including trustees of trusts for the benefit of Thomas J. Pritzker and Penny Pritzker and their respective lineal descendants, entities affiliated with Goldman, Sachs & Co. and entities affiliated with Madrone Capital, LLC, elected not to exercise their piggyback registration rights. Subsequent to the filing of the February 2011 shelf registration statement, in January 2012, trusts for the benefit of Nicholas J. Pritzker sold into the public market pursuant to Rule 144 an aggregate of 863,721 shares of Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of Class B common stock. After giving effect to this sale transaction, as of the date of this filing, 18,578,588 shares of the 19,442,309 shares originally registered for resale on the shelf registration statement continue to be eligible to be sold pursuant to the shelf registration statement during the 12 month period commencing November 5, 2011 through November 4, 2012 under the lock-up restrictions contained in the Amended and Restated Global Hyatt Agreement and the Amended and Restated Foreign Global Hyatt Agreement. Additional shares may be registered on the shelf registration statement in the future as such shares are eligible to be sold in accordance with the registration rights agreements and lock-up restrictions. See “—A significant number of shares of Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of Class B common stock could be sold into the market, which could depress our stock price even if our business is doing well” for additional information with respect to the lock-up provisions. The sale of shares registered under the registration statement in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur could reduce the trading price of our Class A common stock or impede our ability to raise future capital. Reports published by securities or industry analysts, including projections in those reports that exceed our actual results, could adversely affect our stock price and trading volume. Securities research analysts have established and publish their own quarterly projections for our business. These projections may vary widely from one another and may not accurately predict the results we actually achieve. Our stock price may decline if our actual results do not match securities research analysts’ projections. Similarly, if one or more of the analysts who writes reports on us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, our stock price or trading volume could decline. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law, as well as agreements with our major stockholders, may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if a sale of Hyatt would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could cause our stock price to decline and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current board of directors or management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as agreements with our major stockholders, contain provisions that may make it difficult to remove our board of directors and management and may discourage or delay “change of control” transactions that certain stockholders may view as beneficial or could involve the payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our Class A common stock. These provisions include, among others: • Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for a dual class ownership structure, in which our Class B common stock is entitled to ten votes per share and our Class A common stock is 52 Table of Contents entitled to one vote per share. As a result of this structure, our major stockholders have significant influence or actual control over matters requiring stockholder approval. • Voting agreements entered into with or among our major stockholders require these stockholders to vote their shares consistent with the recommendation of our board of directors, assuming in certain instances that a majority of a minimum of three independent directors (excluding for such purposes any Pritzker) or, in the case of transactions involving us and an affiliate, all of such minimum of three independent directors (excluding for such purposes any Pritzker) agree with the recommendation. While the voting agreements are in effect, they may provide our board of directors with effective control over matters requiring stockholder approval. • Lock-up agreements entered into with stockholders party to our 2007 Stockholders’ Agreement limit the ability of these stockholders to sell their shares to any person who would be required to file a Schedule 13D with the SEC disclosing an intent to acquire the shares other than for investment purposes and, in certain instances, to competitors of ours in the hospitality, lodging or gaming industries. • Stockholders party to our 2007 Stockholders’ Agreement have agreed, subject to certain limited exceptions, to “standstill” provisions that prevent the stockholders from acquiring additional shares of our common stock, making or participating in acquisition proposals for us or soliciting proxies in connection with meetings of our stockholders, unless the stockholders are invited to do so by our board of directors. • Our board of directors is divided into three classes, with each class serving for a staggered three-year term, which prevents stockholders from electing an entirely new board of directors at an annual meeting. • Our directors may be removed only for cause, which prevents stockholders from being able to remove directors without cause other than those directors who are being elected at an annual meeting. • Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation does not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors. As a result, holders of our Class B common stock will control the election of directors and the ability of holders of our Class A common stock to elect director candidates will be limited. • Vacancies on our board of directors, and any newly created director positions created by the expansion of the board of directors, may be filled only by a majority of remaining directors then in office. • Actions to be taken by our stockholders may only be effected at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders and not by written consent. • Special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by the Chairman of the Board or by our corporate secretary at the direction of our board of directors. • Advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors and propose matters to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. • Our board of directors may, without stockholder approval, issue series of preferred stock, or rights to acquire preferred stock, that could dilute the interest of, or impair the voting power of, holders of our common stock or could also be used as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control. • An affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock entitled to vote is required to amend any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws. 53 Table of Contents We do not currently pay dividends on our Class A common stock and, consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our Class A common stock appreciates. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. In addition, we must comply with the covenants in our revolving credit facility if we want to pay cash dividends. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the further development and expansion of our business. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, restrictions contained in current or future financing instruments and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. Non-U.S. holders who own more than 5% of our Class A common stock or substantial amounts of our Class B common stock may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on gain realized on the disposition of such stock. Because we have significant U.S. real estate holdings, we may be a “United States real property holding corporation” (“USRPHC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but we have made no determination to that effect. There can be no assurance that we do not currently constitute or will not become a USRPHC. As a result, a “non-U.S. holder” may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on gain realized on a disposition of our Class A common stock if such non-U.S. holder has owned, actually or constructively (through certain family members, related entities and options), more than 5% of our Class A common stock at any time during the shorter of (a) the five-year period ending on the date of disposition and (b) the non-U.S. holder’s holding period in such stock. If we were or were to become a USRPHC, a non-U.S. holder may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on gain realized on the disposition of our Class B common stock. Such tax would apply if on the date such non-U.S. holder actually or constructively acquired Class B common stock, and on any date on which such non-U.S. holder acquires additional Class B common stock, the aggregate fair market of the Class B common stock it actually and constructively owns is greater than 5% of the fair market value of our Class A common stock on such date. Certain dispositions of substantial amounts of Class B common stock by non-U.S. holders may also be subject to withholding under section 1445 of the Internal Revenue Code. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 54 Table of Contents 