D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Recent Merger Successful operation of the agricultural logistics business and integration with our other businesses is not assured. Successful operation of the agricultural logistics business (details of which are further discussed in “Business Overview”) and integration with our other businesses is not assured. We believe that the Merger presents significant agricultural logistics industry opportunities, which will allow us to grow our business, address substantially larger markets and take advantage of a number of sales and marketing synergies. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and grow the agricultural logistics business and operations. Integrating and coordinating certain aspects of the operations and personnel of our different businesses will involve complex operational, technological and personnel-related challenges. This process will be time-consuming and expensive, may disrupt the business of either or both of the businesses and may not result in the full benefits we expect. 4 Table of Contents The integration of a new business is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. This process may disrupt the business of either or both of the businesses, and may not result in the full benefits expected. There can be no assurance that the combination of our businesses will result in the realization of the anticipated benefits from the Merger. In addition, as a non-public company prior to the Merger, China Metro-Rural Limited has not had to comply with the requirements for internal control and other procedures. Bringing its systems into compliance with those requirements may cause us to incur substantial additional expense. If our management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer and our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. As our ordinary shares issued in the Merger become eligible for resale, the sale of those shares could adversely impact our share price. Approximately 57 million of our ordinary shares issued in the Merger will become eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act beginning six months after the closing of the Merger. Our share price may suffer a significant decline as a result of the sudden increase in the number of shares sold in the public market or market perception that the increased number of shares available for sale will exceed the demand for our ordinary shares. A lack of effective internal control over financial reporting could result in an inability to accurately report our financial results, which could lead to a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our share price. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. Based on our evaluation, we concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of March 31, 2010 to ensure that information we are required to disclose under applicable laws and regulations is (1) recorded, processed, summarized and reported in a timely manner, and (2) accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. However, we have in the past discovered deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting and, based on our evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the fiscal year 2009, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2009. For a description of this material weakness, see “Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting” under Item 15, Controls and Procedures. In addition, we may in the future discover deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. Evaluations of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in the future may lead our management to determine that internal control over financial reporting is no longer effective. Such conclusions may result from our failure to implement controls for changes in our business, or deterioration in the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures. A failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, including a failure to implement effective new controls to address changes in our business, could result in a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements or otherwise cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. This, in turn, could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our share price. In order to be successful, we must retain and motivate key employees, which will be more difficult in light of uncertainty caused by the Merger, and failure to do so could prevent us from realizing the expected benefits of the Merger. In order to be successful, the combined company must retain and motivate executives and other key employees. The market for highly skilled employees is limited, and the loss of key employees could have a 5 Table of Contents significant impact on our operations. Employee retention may be a particularly challenging issue due to the Merger. Our employees may experience uncertainty about their future role with the combined company until or after strategies with regard to the combined company are announced or executed. This circumstance may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We also must continue to motivate employees and keep them focused on the strategies and goals of the combined company, which may be particularly difficult due to the potential distractions of the Merger, including morale challenges posed by any workforce reductions. The loss of key personnel could prevent us from realizing the expected benefits from the Merger. We may not be able to realize the anticipated synergies and other benefits we expect to achieve from the Merger within the timeframe that is currently expected, or at all. Strategic transactions like our proposed Merger create numerous uncertainties and risks. As a result, the combined company may not be able to realize the expected revenue growth and other benefits and synergies that we seek to achieve from the Merger. We believe that the businesses are complementary in a number of respects and that the combined company can take advantage of synergies, economies of scale and other benefits. However, these anticipated benefits and synergies are based on projections and assumptions, not actual experience, and actual results may deviate from our expectations for a variety of reasons, including those discussed elsewhere in this section of the annual report. Risks Relating to Our Agricultural Logistics Business Our ability to execute on our business strategy and grow will depend in part on the success of the PRC’s agricultural industry. We have established an exchange platform in Tieling, Liaoning Province called “China Northeast Logistics City”, which is available to Tieling as well as regional and international traders based upon an open free market system for the mutual benefit of sellers and buyers. The exchange is designed to facilitate the marketing of any commodity provided or desired by any consenting parties. Agriculture commodities have risk exposure, including weather, climate and seasonal price fluctuations. Farmers are exposed to risks associated with output and input prices, production volume and risks associated with income from non-farm sources. Our results of operation may be significantly adversely affected by these risks. The PRC Government may introduce new “green laws” with environmental challenges that may have an adverse effect on our actual and prospective tenants and customers, and therefore could adversely affect our operations. There are few quantitative estimates of projected environmental degradation associated with intensive agricultural production. Yet environmental cleanup will pose a competing challenge for investment in agriculture. Abundant use of coal to meet the increasing demands for energy and rapid growth of cities with associated growth of automobiles and municipal waste have been large sources of incredibly high levels of air pollution in China. Mortality rates of chronic pulmonary disease, a leading cause of death in China, is five times as high as in New York, not only leading to considerable loss of life, but high cost of hospitalization and lost work days estimated to be 7.4 million person-years per year. Acid rain and water use and pollution associated with industrialization and urbanization are other major sources of water constraint. Disposal of industrial waste and organic fertilizer runoffs has been the major source of water pollution. Yet the health impact has been generally contained due to the widespread availability of safe drinking water. Still, water pollution is increasing water shortages and increasing the cost of provision of drinking water since this often requires that people move to safer areas. China’s per capita energy demand and increased use of automobiles associated with urbanization will critically shape the environmental prospects in China. Reduction in environmental pollution will require the PRC Government to encourage the replacement of outdated and environmentally polluting technologies, increasing 6 Table of Contents energy efficiency and emission standards to standards comparable to those used in Europe and the U.S., and price polluting industrial inputs to reflect the cost of pollution cleanup. The PRC Government would also need to consider imposing taxes on such items as coal, based on sulfur and ash content, investing in alternative technologies in public transport and domestic energy use, such as the greater use of gas for cooking, and planning and regulating industrial, public and household uses more effectively. Each of these events could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The results of operations of our agricultural logistics business substantially depend on our ability to execute our business strategy and on economic growth in the regions of our trade center projects. The results of operations of our agricultural logistics business substantially depend on the successful execution of our business strategy to attract and retain high quality tenants, achieve market rental rates and improve the surrounding infrastructure. Our success will also depend upon continuing growth in the agricultural, manufacturing and export industries in the Manchuria region, as well as regions surrounding properties planned for future development, and our ability to compete with other similar businesses. We may face challenges in implementing our strategy, and our ability to achieve our goals may be adversely affected by various factors, some of which are beyond our control. If we are not able to execute our business strategy or successfully compete with other similar businesses, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to increase our revenues from sales or leases of properties or achieve satisfactory rental rates from period to period, sustain our rapid growth rate or increase our revenues from either the sales or lease of properties from period to period. Our revenues have grown rapidly over the past two years. Our revenues from the sales of trade center units in fiscal year 2009 and fiscal year 2010 were HK$1.1 million and HK$336.7 million, respectively. Our revenue from the leases of properties increased from nil to HK$0.6 million and our revenue from property management services increased from nil to HK$0.4 million. Our commission lease arrangements provide us the right to lease to, and receive rental income from, third parties for the trade center units that we have sold to the purchasers of these units, for a period of approximately three years. However, if we are unable to lease the trade center units for which we have entered into such commission lease arrangements, we will not receive any rental income from these units. Under these commission lease arrangements, we are not obligated to pay any rent during the three-year period. We cannot assure that, in the future, we will be able to charge sufficiently high rental rates. As a result, failure to lease the trade center units or to lease the units at satisfactory rental rates would adversely affect our profits for the applicable period. We currently rely on Phase I of China Northeast Logistics City for all of our agricultural logistics business revenues. Although our agricultural logistics business has properties under development and planned for future development, we currently rely on Phase I of China Northeast Logistics City for all of our agricultural logistics business revenues. This single location revenue source may entail a higher level of risk as compared to other operators of trade centers that have revenue-generating properties spread over several different locations or have a more diverse range of property investments. In the event of a circumstance which adversely affects the operations or business of China Northeast Logistics City, or its attractiveness to tenants, we will not have income from other properties in our agricultural logistics business to mitigate any ensuing loss. A concentration of investments in a single location will cause China Northeast Logistics City to be highly susceptible to a downturn in Northeast China’s agricultural, property or logistics industry. In addition, any property damage at China Northeast Logistics City, resulting from fire or other causes, or a downturn in the industrial materials, agricultural or manufacturing industries in Northeast China, may have a material adverse effect on our business, 7 Table of Contents financial condition and results of operations. Further, we cannot assure that China Northeast Logistics City will continue to attract tenants to generate rental income, or that we will be successful in the future. Although we have projects planned for future development in 2011 and 2013, we cannot assure that we will be able to successfully obtain state-owned land use rights for all or any portion of land necessary for the development of these projects, complete the development of these projects or generate revenue and net income from these projects at all or in amounts that we expect. If we are unable to obtain the state-owned land use rights for our properties planned for future development, we will not be able to develop these planned projects. Our Hong Kong subsidiary, China Metro-Rural Exchange Ltd., signed a framework agreement with Tieling Municipal Government in 2006. Pursuant to this master agreement, the Tieling Municipal Government has identified land which is suitable for our development strategy in these locations. However, the signing of the master agreement does not guarantee that we will obtain the land identified therein, which will be transferred by public tender, auction or listing for sale. We cannot assure that the relevant land administration authorities will grant it the appropriate land-use rights or issue the relevant land-use rights certificates in a timely manner, or at all. Moreover, we cannot assure that we will be successful in our bidding for the plots of land or that we will be able to obtain the land at our desired price. If we are not successful in our bidding for the plots of land in the future or fail to obtain land-use rights for all or any portion of such land, we may not be able to develop any future projects. We may experience conflicts of interest with China South City Holdings Limited as a result of contracts to which certain of our directors are a party. In addition to their investments in the Company, Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky, and his brother, Mr. Cheng Tai Po, own all of the outstanding shares of Accurate Gain Developments Limited and 80% of the outstanding shares of Proficient Success Limited. As of March 31, 2010, Accurate Gain Developments Limited, Proficient Success Limited, Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky, and Mr. Cheng Tai Po owned an aggregate of 2,471,444,558 of the 6,000,000,000 outstanding shares of China South City Holdings Limited, or China South City, and Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky, held options to purchase 66,000,000 shares of China South City. China South City is a developer and operator of an integrated logistics and trade center platform in operation, China South City Shenzhen, which serves five complementary light manufacturing industries: (1) textile and clothing; (2) leather and accessories; (3) electronic accessories; (4) printing, paper and packaging; and (5) metals, chemicals and plastics. Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky, is also the Co-Founder, Co-Chairman and Executive Director of China South City. In addition, Mr. Leung Moon Lam, a director of China Metro, is a Co-Founder, Executive Director and the Chief Executive Officer of China South City. Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky, and Mr. Leung Moon Lam are each parties to a deed of option and undertaking with China South City. Pursuant to the deed of option and undertaking of which we are not a party, each of Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky, and Mr. Leung Moon Lam has granted to China South City an option to acquire all their respective directly held interests in China Northeast Logistics City at any time until September 30, 2014 or two years after the completion of the development of China Northeast Logistics City (whichever is later) so long as: (i) for Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky, he remains a controlling shareholder of China South City or a director of China South City; or (ii) for Mr. Leung Moon Lam, he remains a director of China South City. China South City also has the right to buy all the respective interests held by Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky, and/or Mr. Leung Moon Lam in China Northeast Logistics City before they are offered to any other third party. The price payable by China South City for such interests shall be determined with reference to the fair market value of such interests as determined by an internationally recognized valuer. If China South City decides, after due consideration, not to exercise the option but wishes to develop China South City’s business operations in Liaoning Province, which may result in competition between China South City and China Northeast Logistics City, China South City shall be entitled to, at any time within the above 8 Table of Contents option period, require Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky (so long as he remains a controlling shareholder of China South City or a director of China South City), and/or Mr. Leung Moon Lam (so long as he remains a director of China South City) to dispose of all their respective interests in China Northeast Logistics City to independent third parties as soon as practicable and in any event prior to the occurrence of any competition between China South City and China Northeast Logistics City. As a result, there may be conflicts of interest presented by Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky’s, and Mr. Leung Moon Lam’s relationships with both us and China South City, which may adversely affect our opportunities, prospects and results of operations. In connection with the Merger, Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky and Mr. Leung Moon Lam sought confirmation from China South City as to whether China South City would opt to exercise its rights of first offer granted to it by both Mr. Cheng and Mr. Leung to purchase all their respective effective interests in China Northeast Logistics City. Following that request, China South City held an extraordinary general meeting in which its independent shareholders approved, confirmed and ratified its non-exercise of the rights of first offer granted to it by each of Mr. Cheng and Mr. Leung in relation to the Merger. While the rights of first offer no longer exist with respect to the completed Merger, the option to exercise the rights of first offer remains in effect with respect to subsequent transfers until September 30, 2014 or two years after the completion of the development of China Northeast Logistics City (whichever is later). We may not be able to acquire the land for the completion of additional projects with Urbanization Policy and reduction of agricultural land by PRC Government. According to some estimates, since 1988, capital construction in China has removed 190,000 hectares of land from cultivation annually. Other estimates show a greater loss of land. The land lost in the Shandong and Southeastern coastal provinces is high quality land where multiple cropping is practiced, compounding the loss. Although these losses have been offset by land reclamation of 245,000 hectares annually, reclaimed land tends to be of poorer quality. In addition, the cost of land reclamation has varied between HK$2,000 to HK$20,000 per hectare depending on the terrain. In the event we are unable to obtain additional land at reasonable prices, or at all, we may not be able to complete additional projects in the future, which could have an adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and results of operations. Our PRC subsidiary, China Northeast, is a wholly owned foreign enterprise, which subjects China Northeast to restrictions imposed on such enterprise under relevant PRC laws and regulations. China Northeast was approved by the local authorities in Tieling and filed with the PRC Ministry of Commerce as a wholly owned foreign enterprise and, accordingly, is subject to regulations and restrictions applicable to foreign investment real estate enterprises, including, but not limited to, restrictions on China Northeast’s ability to obtain loans within and outside of the PRC, as well as restrictions on the conversion and sale of foreign exchange into the capital account. In addition, China Northeast, as a foreign investment real estate enterprise, is required to maintain registered capital levels at 50% or more of our total investment. As of March 31, 2010, our registered total investment in China Northeast was US$49.8 million, including registered capital of US$35 million, representing approximately 70% of our total investment. Currently, China Northeast, our project company for our property planned for future development in Liaoning, is our only subsidiary categorized as foreign investment real estate enterprise. The cyclical nature of the real estate, agricultural and logistics industries could adversely affect our results of operations. Our results of operations are and will continue to be affected by the cyclical nature of the real estate, agricultural and logistics industries in the PRC. Property values and rents are affected by, among other factors, supply and demand of comparable properties, interest rates, inflation, the rate of economic growth, tax laws and political and economic developments in the PRC. Our tenants and customers may be affected by the weather, climate, import and export of agricultural products and machines, price of the agriculture and the fluctuation of 9 Table of Contents the RMB. We cannot assure that property values and rents will not decline. In addition, increased competition brought by this additional supply could adversely affect trade center rents and occupancy rates as well as sales prices for new trade center units. Our trade centers depend upon the growing demand for industrial and agricultural materials and logistics services in China. A significant downturn in the PRC economy could adversely affect such demand, as well as the demand by suppliers for trade center units. Our results of operations may fluctuate from period to period due to variations in the proceeds received from sales and leases of trade center units and the fair value of our investment properties. Our results of operations tend to fluctuate from period to period depending upon the proportion and gross floor area, or GFA, of trade center units that are sold or leased, and when our projects in various stages of development are completed. We generally sell trade center units in the initial stages following completion of a project subject to the then-current market conditions. The number of trade centers that we are able to develop or complete during any given period is limited due to the substantial capital requirements for land acquisition and construction, as well as the lengthy development periods required before positive cash flows may be generated. In addition, the trade centers that we have developed or that are under development are large-scale, integrated, multi-phase projects to be developed over the course of several years. The selling prices and rental rates of trade center units are also subject to fluctuation, which may impact our sales proceeds and rental income and, accordingly, our revenues for any given period. In this regard, rental rates also vary among trade centers, according to market demand and dates of completion of the various trade centers, which affects rental rates because we generally offers tenants in newly completed trade center units preferential rental rates and rent-free periods in order to promote occupancy rates of these trade centers. Our rental rates for future periods may also be affected by similar incentive plans, and may be adversely affected by cyclical changes in market demand. Our results of operations may also fluctuate due to changes in the fair value of our trade center units and other facilities retained for rental income and capital appreciation of investment properties. We reassess the fair value of our investment properties each year. Property valuation typically requires the use of certain bases and assumptions with respect to a variety of factors, including supply and demand of comparable properties, the rate of economic growth in the location of the property, interest rates, inflation and political and economic developments in the PRC. Our operations are subject to extensive governmental regulation, and we are susceptible to changes in policies related to the real estate, agricultural and logistics industries in the PRC. In order to develop and operate a trade center development, we must obtain various permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals from the relevant administrative authorities at various stages of our trade center development, including land-use rights documents, planning permits, construction permits and certificates or confirmation of completion and acceptance. Each approval is dependent on the satisfaction of certain conditions. We cannot assure that we will be able to fulfill the pre-conditions necessary to obtain required governmental approvals, or that we will be able to adapt to new laws, regulations or policies that may come into effect from time to time with respect to the real estate, agricultural or logistics industries in general or the particular processes with respect to the grant of approvals in China. There may also be delays on the part of relevant administrative bodies in reviewing our applications and granting approvals. We may also be subject to periodic delays in our trade center development projects due to building moratoria in the areas in which it operates or plans to operate. If we are unable to obtain, or experience material delays in obtaining, the requisite governmental approvals, or if a building moratorium is implemented at one or more of our project sites, the development and sale of our projects could be substantially disrupted, which would result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we cannot assure that the implementation of laws and regulations by relevant authorities, or the interpretation or enforcement of such laws and regulations, will not cause us to incur additional costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents We are currently in the process of obtaining the construction work planning permit and work commencement permit for the plot of land with state-owned land-use rights certificate coded Tie Ling Xian Guo Yong (2008) No. 30. We had previously anticipated that the permits would be obtained in June 2010. However, due to certain delays, we expect to obtain the permits within a few months after the filing of this annual report. Despite our expectation that we will obtain the permits, we cannot assure that we will be able to obtain the permits. Failure to obtain the necessary permits may subject us to various penalties, including fines of up to 10% of construction cost, and mandatory suspension or demolition of construction, each of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face competition from other agricultural exchanges and industrial materials trade centers. Our China Northeast Logistics City faces competition from other agricultural and industrial materials trade centers in China, particularly in the Northeast area. The greatest concentration of industrial materials trade centers in China is in Pearl River Delta, Yangtze River Delta and the Manchuria area. The agricultural, industrial materials and finished goods featured at these competing trade centers include agricultural products, building materials, automobile and accessories and small appliances at China Northeast Logistics City. In addition, there may be an increase in supply of industrial materials trade centers in Guangdong and elsewhere in China, such as Shenzhen and Guangzhou, in the future. The greatest concentration of agricultural trade centers in China is in Manchuria and Shanghai. The agricultural products for which these trade centers compete include raw materials, corns, wheat, fertilizers, seeds and pesticides, agricultural machinery and tools, which are concentrated in Manchuria area. Recently, the Shanghai Agriculture Equity Exchange (SAEE) was established on September 18, 2009 and the management anticipates that similar exchanges will be established in the future. This competition may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and buyers and may reduce the rents or prices we are able to charge. We cannot assure that we will prevail in competing with other trade center operators. Our inability to compete effectively could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Demand for our trade centers may be negatively affected by uncertainty regarding the recovery of the global economy, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Uncertainty regarding the recovery of the global economy may diminish the demand from many parts of the world and increase volatility in credit and equity markets. If these conditions continue or worsen, regardless of any efforts by various governmental authorities to stimulate the economy, they may adversely affect the availability, terms and cost of borrowings in the future, including financings necessary to complete our properties planned for future development, as well as the demand for our trade center units. Because our operations are capital intensive, and rely principally on cash flows from operations and bank borrowings, we cannot assure that the global economic downturn will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. The timing and nature of any recovery in the global economy remain uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future or that our results will not be adversely affected. Furthermore, if economic conditions become worse, the development of our properties could be adversely affected and materially delayed. We may not be able to obtain qualification certificates, or extend or renew qualification certificates for real estate development, which could adversely affect our business. Our subsidiary, China Northeast, is required to hold a long-term qualification certificate, which is normally granted to real estate developers. Tieling Urban Construction Comprehensive Development Office has previously 11 Table of Contents granted a short-term qualification certificate to China Northeast confirming that China Northeast is allowed to undertake the development of properties in the PRC. On August 6, 2009, China Northeast obtained an annual renewal of the short-term qualification certificate. Although we have successfully renewed this qualification certificate in the past, the final decision with respect to future applications is at the discretion of the local authority. As a result, we cannot assure that China Northeast will be able to renew the qualification certificate in a timely manner, or at all. If China Northeast or other project companies for our future projects are unable to obtain or renew qualification certificates, they may not be permitted by the PRC government to continue to engage in property development activities associated with the development of their integrated logistics trade center business, which would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The appraisal value of our properties may materially differ from the value we could receive in an actual sales transaction. Property valuations include a subjective determination of certain factors relating to the properties, such as their relative market position, their financial and competitive strengths, location and their physical condition. Further, the valuation of the properties is not an indication of, and does not guarantee, a sale price corresponding to such valuation, currently or in the future. Unforeseen changes in a particular integrated logistics and trade center development or in general or local economic conditions could affect the value of our properties, and the resulting amounts we obtain may be materially lower than the amount set forth in the valuations. Potential liability for environmental problems could result in substantial costs. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations during the construction of our development projects. The particular environmental laws and regulations which apply to any given project development site vary greatly according to the site’s location, the site’s environmental condition, the present and former uses of the site, as well as adjoining properties. Environmental laws and conditions may result in project delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs and can prohibit or severely restrict project development activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. In addition, we cannot predict the impact that unforeseeable environmental contingencies or new or changed laws or regulations may have on us or our trade center projects. As required by PRC law, independent environmental consultants have conducted environmental impact assessments at all of our construction projects. Although the environmental investigations conducted to date have not revealed any environmental liability that would be expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, it is possible that these investigations did not reveal all environmental liabilities or their extent, and there may be material environmental liabilities of which we are unaware. Upon completion of each project, the relevant environmental authorities will inspect the site to ensure compliance with all applicable environmental standards and prepare a report to confirm such compliance. We cannot assure that such internal control procedures will be effective in preventing non-compliance. If any portion of the project is found to be non-compliant with relevant environmental standards or if we are unable to obtain necessary licenses for releasing contaminants, it may be subject to suspension of a portion of our operations as well as fines and penalties. Sales of our properties are subject to land appreciation tax and income tax. Our sales of trade center units are subject to land appreciation tax in the PRC. In addition, sales of residential properties in our properties planned for future development may be subject to land appreciation tax. Land appreciation tax is payable on the gain, representing the balance of the proceeds received on such sale, after deducting various prescribed items, including sums paid for acquisition of land-use rights, the direct costs and expenses of the development of the land and construction of buildings and supplementary facilities or the 12 Table of Contents appraised price of any previous buildings and structures existing on the land and taxes related to the assignment of the real property. Under applicable PRC laws and regulations, land appreciation tax is chargeable on the gain at progressive rates ranging from 30% to 60%. Property developers enjoy an additional deduction which is up to 20% of the sums paid for acquisition of land-use rights and the direct costs of land development and construction of new buildings and supplementary facilities. On December 28, 2006, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice on Administration of the Settlement of Land Appreciation Tax of Property Development Enterprises, or the LAT Notice, which became effective on February 1, 2007. The LAT Notice provides that land appreciation tax should be settled in stages during a real estate development project and sets forth, among other things, methods of calculating land appreciation tax and a time frame for settlement of land appreciation tax. We have accrued all land appreciation tax payable on our property sales and transfers in accordance with the progressive rates specified in relevant tax laws mentioned above. However, the relevant tax authorities have yet to commence the assessment of our land appreciation taxes in order to collect the additional tax payments from it, and, therefore, we have not made the additional payments of land appreciation tax during the fiscal years and the current period. We have paid such land appreciation tax expenses based on the total sales amount of the contracts it entered into with purchasers of trade center units for each fiscal year at the rate of 2% set by the Tieling municipal tax authority. In fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2010, we paid land appreciation tax to the Tieling municipal tax authority in the amounts of HK$nil and HK$4.8 million, respectively. In fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2010, we made provisions for land appreciation in the amounts of HK$0.06 million, and HK$22.2 million, respectively. Our cash flows and financial condition will be affected if the PRC tax authorities do proceed to collect the land appreciation tax for which we have made provisions. In addition, provisioning for land appreciation tax requires our management to use a significant amount of judgment with respect to the appreciation of land value and the allowability of deductible items for income tax purposes. If the land appreciation tax provisions we have made are substantially lower than the actual land appreciation tax amounts assessed by the tax authorities, our results of operations and cash flows will be materially and adversely affected. We may be required to forfeit land being developed if it does not comply with the terms of our land grant contract. Under PRC law, if a developer fails to develop land according to the terms of its land grant contract (including those relating to payment of fees, land use or the time for commencement and completion of the development of the land), the relevant land administration authorities may issue a warning to or impose a penalty on the developer or require the developer to forfeit the land. We have not received such a warning or been subject to such a penalty or threat of forfeiture in the past. However, we cannot assure that circumstances leading to possible forfeiture of land or delays in the completion of an integrated logistics, agricultural and trade center development will not occur in the future. In addition, although the local government is responsible in the master agreement for relocating existing residents on the land and associated relocation expenses, the local government may experience delays in its negotiation process with the original occupants of the land which may result in delays in the development of any future properties by us. With respect to any future properties of ours, we will be responsible for land payments only following the successful relocation of existing residents by and at the cost of the local government. Risks Relating to Our Jewelry and Real Estate Businesses We may not be able to complete China Pearls and Jewellery City or commence or complete our properties planned for future real estate projects on time or within budget. Our real estate projects involve acquiring land-use rights for large plots of land, many of which have existing structures and residents, from municipal and provincial governments of the PRC. Other properties we may develop in the future may also involve similar circumstances. Acquiring these development rights, converting them into land-use rights and committing the financial and managerial resources to develop the land 13 Table of Contents involve significant risks. Before a real estate development project generates any revenue, we must make a variety of material expenditures, including to acquire the development rights and to construct the required infrastructure. As of March 31, 2010, China Pearls and Jewellery City Holdings Limited, one of our subsidiaries, had incurred approximately HK$872.4 million in development costs, primarily for the construction of phase one of China Pearls and Jewellery City. It generally takes several years for a planned real estate project to generate revenue, and we cannot assure you that our real estate projects will achieve positive cash flow. As a result, our current and future real estate development activities may be exposed to the following risks: • we may lease or sell developed properties at below expected rental rates or sales prices, and we may experience delays in the sale or leasing of developed properties; • we may be unable to complete construction of our real estate projects on schedule, or on budget, due to a variety of factors including shortages of materials, equipment, technical skills and labor, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, labor disputes, disputes with contractors and sub-contractors, accidents, changes in government priorities and policies, changes in market conditions, delays in the relocation process, delays in obtaining the requisite licenses, permits and approvals from the relevant authorities and other problems and circumstances, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs; • occupancy rates, rents and sales prices at our real estate properties may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, and may result in our investments being less profitable than we expected or not profitable at all; • the services rendered by our contractors may not always meet our quality requirements, and negligence or poor work quality by any contractors may result in defects in our buildings or trade center units, which could in turn cause us to suffer financial losses, harm our reputation or expose us to third-party claims; • since it normally takes several years for us to complete a real estate project, we expect that we will be affected by increases in the costs of construction materials and the costs of other goods and services, most significantly labor costs; • we may delay, or change the structure of, real estate projects and as a result we may lose deposits paid to participate in the land tender process or fail to recover expenses already incurred; and • we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, required zoning, land-use, building, occupancy, and other governmental permits, rights and authorizations, which could result in increased costs with respect to a project. The occurrence of any of these circumstances, most of which are beyond our control, could delay the completion of our real estate projects, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which in turn could cause the market value of our shares to decline. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow or obtain financing to complete China Pearls and Jewellery City or implement our business strategies. We intend to invest approximately HK$31.0 million and HK$1.1 million for capital expenditures in our real estate business in fiscal years 2011 and 2012, respectively, nearly all of which will be dedicated to the construction of the phase one pearl market center for China Pearls and Jewellery City. We intend to finance these capital expenditures with cash reserves, cash flows from operations, dividend payments from subsidiaries and, if required, borrowings. We may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations to fully fund our capital expenditures for China Pearls and Jewellery City or other projects we may undertake. We may need additional funding to implement our business strategy. If we are unable to generate enough cash to pay for these projects we may need to raise additional funds. We may not be able to raise any additional funds on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. If we cannot generate enough cash, or find alternative sources of funding to complete these 14 Table of Contents projects, our business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to obtain the necessary land-use rights, we will not be able to continue the development of China Pearls and Jewellery City. We entered into a master agreement with the Zhuji Shanxiahu People’s Government in January 2006 for the development of China Pearls and Jewellery City. Pursuant to this master agreement, the Zhuji Shanxiahu People’s Government has identified land which is suitable for the development of China Pearls and Jewellery City. However, the signing of the master agreement does not guarantee that we will obtain all of the land identified therein, which is transferred by public tender, auction or listing for sale. As of March 31, 2010, we had obtained the land-use rights for approximately 300,000 square meters of land for the development of China Pearls and Jewellery City, including substantially all of the land-use rights for our phase one pearl market center. We cannot assure you that land administration authorities will grant us the remaining 900,000 square meters of land corresponding to the land identified in our master agreement for the development of the remaining phases of China Pearls and Jewellery City in a timely manner, or at all. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the land at our desired price. If we are not successful in obtaining the land-use rights for the development of the remaining phases of China Pearls and Jewellery City, we will not be able to develop China Pearls and Jewellery City as planned, which may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Businesses Generally We may not be able to obtain adequate funding to our property under development or any properties planned for future development. To date, for investment activities, we have relied primarily on bank borrowings and shareholders’ loans for our funding and liquidity requirements; and to a lesser extent on cash inflows from operations. For further information on our available funding and liquidity resources, please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” As of March 31, 2010, we had net current assets of HK$866.2 million and the outstanding balance of our total indebtedness (including trade payables, other payables and accruals) amounted to approximately HK$1,062.4 million, which included primarily bank borrowings, trade payables, other payables and accruals and amount due to an associate in the amounts of HK$606.7 million, HK$454.2 million and HK$1.5 million, respectively. Approximately HK$249.1 million of our total borrowings were due within one year or on demand and approximately HK$357.6 million were due within a period of more than one year but not exceeding five years. We also have available cash flow from our operations, but such amounts are not likely to be sufficient to fund our future development requirements. Due to the nature of our trade center development business, it may from time to time experience periods of net cash outflows, when imbalances may arise between the timing of cash inflows from rentals and sales of trade center units and our cash outflows relating to the construction of properties and purchases of state-owned land use rights. We may require additional bank borrowings and, if necessary, offerings of debt and equity securities for a significant portion of our liquidity requirements to finance the construction costs of these projects, which are expected to be completed in stages. We cannot assure that we will be able to obtain additional financing at competitive costs, or at all. In addition, although we have not experienced any difficulties in the past, it may not be able to renew our existing loan facilities granted by banks in the PRC on satisfactory terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain necessary additional financing or renew existing loan facilities, we will not be able to complete future projects, and our business development could be severely disrupted. We cannot assure that we will be able to obtain sufficient funding to finance intended purchases of land use rights, develop future projects or meet other capital needs as and when required at a commercially reasonable cost or at all. Failure to obtain adequate funding at a commercially reasonable cost may limit our ability to commence new projects or to continue the development of existing projects or may increase our borrowing costs. 15 Table of Contents In previous years, the PRC Government introduced a number of measures and regulations to restrict the ability of property developers to raise capital through external financing and other methods. Because the local authorities in Tieling treat our subsidiary, China Northeast, as a real property developer, we have been subject to these measures and regulations with respect to China Northeast. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. As of March 31, 2010, our debt-to-equity ratio (total bank borrowings/total equity) was approximately 33.3%. We may incur additional indebtedness to complete additional projects and grow our supporting infrastructure, and the amount of such additional indebtedness may be substantial. We will face more risks if it or our subsidiaries incurs additional debt. For example, the additional debt could: • limit our ability to satisfy our obligations under our borrowings; • increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to servicing and repaying our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund project developments, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our businesses and the industry in which we operate; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or exploring business opportunities; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • limit, along with the restrictive covenants of our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds or make guarantees; and • increase the cost of additional financing. Our ability to generate sufficient cash to satisfy our outstanding and future debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by then prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We anticipate that our operating cash flow will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating expenses and to service our debt obligations as they become due. However, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow for these purposes. If we are unable to service our total indebtedness, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness or seeking additional equity capital. These strategies may not be implemented on satisfactory terms, if at all. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our bank loan agreements, there could be a default under the terms of these agreements, which could cause repayment of our debt to be accelerated. The bank loan agreements of our PRC subsidiary, China Northeast contain a number of significant restrictive covenants. These covenants restrict, among other things, China Northeast’s ability and the ability of its subsidiaries to incur additional debt or make guarantees, incur liens, pay dividends or distributions on its or its subsidiaries’ capital stock, prepay certain indebtedness, sell or transfer property or assets, make investments and merge or consolidate with another company. If China Northeast is unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in its current or future loan and other agreements, there could be a default under the terms of these agreements. In the event of a default under these agreements, the holders of the debt could terminate their commitments to lend to China Northeast, accelerate the outstanding debt and/or terminate the agreements, as the case may be. If the underlying obligation relates to China Northeast’s secured borrowings, the lender can enforce the mortgages over the property securing the defaulted loan. If any of these events occur, China Northeast cannot assure that its assets and cash flow would be sufficient to repay all of its indebtedness, or that it would be able to obtain alternative financing on terms that are favorable or acceptable to China Northeast. 16 Table of Contents There are no breach of any of those covenants by China Northeast. We depend on China Metro-Rural Limited’s founding shareholders, one of whom is also one of our directors, and our business and growth prospects may be severely disrupted if we lose the support and service of all or any one of them. Our success and growth depends on the efforts of the founding shareholders of the China Metro-Rural Limited (Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky and Mr. Leung Moon Lam), one of whom (Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky) is also one of our directors. These founding shareholders are critical to our success because of their vision for us and their industry knowledge and relationships. If we were to lose their support, our relationships with bankers, government officials, potential tenants and industry personnel could be adversely affected. We may not be able to replace these founding shareholders easily or at all. As a result, the loss of any of these founding shareholders, whether because any one or more of them become unwilling to continue in their present capacities with us, develop disagreements between each other, leave to join a competitor or form a competing business, or other reasons, would severely disrupt our business and growth prospects. We depend on our senior management and other important staff members, as well as on our ability to attract and retain qualified management personnel. We depend on the efforts and skill of our senior management and other important staff members. As a result, our future success depends to a significant extent on the continuing service and coordination of these individuals, who are not obligated to remain employed with us. Our success also depends on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain suitably skilled and qualified employees with the requisite industry expertise. The loss of any member of our senior management team and our other employees could have a material adverse effect on our business if we are unable to find suitable replacements in a timely manner. Competition for such personnel is intense, and any failure to recruit and retain the necessary personnel or the loss of a significant number of employees at any time could harm our business and prospects. We may suffer losses caused by natural disasters or accidents and these losses may not be covered by insurance. Our business may be adversely affected due to the occurrence of typhoons, severe storms, floods, wildfires or other natural disasters, or accidents (including fire or explosion) or similar events in the areas where we operate our trade centers. We do not carry any property insurance. Should a loss occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from the property. Nevertheless, we would remain obligated for any bank borrowings or other financial obligations related to the property. It is also possible that if we were to obtain insurance, third-party insurance carriers would not be able to maintain reinsurance sufficient to cover any losses that may be incurred. Any material uninsured loss could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are a holding company and rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our funding requirements. As a holding company, we depend upon the receipt of dividends from our subsidiaries to pay dividends to our shareholders and satisfy our obligations. The ability of our direct and indirect subsidiaries to pay dividends to their shareholders (including us) is subject to relevant shareholders’ agreements or constitutional documents and restrictions contained in the loan agreements of such subsidiaries or other instruments. In addition, the ability of our subsidiaries in the PRC to pay dividends to their shareholders is subject to the requirements of PRC law. PRC regulations permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Dividends may not be paid until 17 Table of Contents cumulative prior years’ losses are made up. As a result, if our subsidiaries in the PRC incur losses, such losses may impair their ability to pay dividends or other distributions to us, which would restrict our ability to pay dividends and to service our indebtedness. Our PRC subsidiaries are required to make monthly contributions to the social security plan maintained for their employees, consisting of pension benefits, personal injury insurance and medical and unemployment benefits. In addition, each of our PRC subsidiaries is also required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profits based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves or statutory capital reserve fund until the cumulative amount of such reserves and fund reaches 50% of its registered capital. As of March 31, 2010, we did not have any statutory reserves for China Northeast or any accumulated profits that were unrestricted and available for distribution. Any occurrence of avian influenza, influenza A H1N1 or other widespread public health problems could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There have been media reports regarding the spread of the H5N1 virus, or avian influenza, among birds and in particular poultry, as well as some isolated cases in countries outside Hong Kong and PRC of transmission of the virus to humans. Further, the World Health Organization in June 2009 raised its pandemic alert level to six, its highest level, in response to an outbreak of influenza A caused by the H1N1 virus that resulted in a number of confirmed cases worldwide. We cannot assure that there will not be a serious outbreak of a contagious disease in the PRC in the future. A renewed outbreak of SARS, pandemic avian influenza, influenza A H1N1 or other widespread public health problems in the PRC could have a material adverse effect on the PRC economy and our property market generally, and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Restrictions on foreign currency exchange may limit our ability to obtain and remit foreign currency or to utilize our revenues effectively. We currently receive substantially all of our agricultural logistics business revenues in Renminbi through our ownership and operation of China Northeast. However, certain of our expenses, including labor costs for our employees in Hong Kong, rental expenses for our office space in Hong Kong and advertising expenses for advertising in Hong Kong and overseas media are denominated in foreign currencies, mostly Hong Kong dollars and U.S. dollars. As a result, any restriction on currency exchange may limit our ability to use revenues generated in Renminbi to pay our foreign currency denominated expenses and service and repay our foreign currency denominated indebtedness. Our ability to satisfy our foreign currency denominated debt obligations depends upon the ability of our subsidiaries incorporated in the PRC to obtain and remit sufficient foreign currency. Our subsidiaries incorporated in the PRC must present certain documents to the designated foreign exchange bank before they can obtain and remit foreign currency out of the PRC (including, in the case of dividends, evidence that the relevant PRC taxes have been paid and, in the case of shareholder loans, evidence of the registration of the loan with the State Administration for Foreign Exchange). We cannot assure that our subsidiaries incorporated in the PRC will not encounter difficulty in the future when undertaking these activities. If our PRC subsidiaries are unable to remit dividends to us, we would be unable to make payments of interest and/or principal on our foreign currency denominated indebtedness. Following the Merger, we will have greater exposure to general real estate investment risks. Real estate investments, like many other types of long-term investments, have historically experienced significant fluctuations in value, and specific market conditions and cycles may result in occasional or permanent reductions in the value of our investments. Property cash flows and the marketability and value of real property will depend on many factors beyond our control, including, without limitation: • adverse changes in international, national, regional and local economic and market conditions; • changes in interest rates or financial markets; • fluctuating local real estate conditions and changes in local laws and regulations; 18 Table of Contents • changes or promulgation and enforcement of governmental regulations relating to land use and zoning, environmental, occupational and safety matters; • changes in real estate tax rates and other operating expenses; • existence of uninsured or uninsurable risks; and • natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism. We have recently transitioned to financial reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS with respect to our Jewelry and Real Estate Businesses, which differs in certain significant respects from U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP, under which we have historically reported, which may make it difficult to compare our results to prior periods and may strain our resources and increase our annual expenses. Our financial statements with respect to our Jewelry and Real Estate Businesses have historically been reported under U.S. GAAP. There are certain significant differences between U.S. GAAP and IFRS. As a result, our financial information and reported earnings for periods presented in the financial statements included in this annual report could be significantly different if they were prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Because the application of IFRS is highly different from U.S. GAAP, it is expected to have a significant impact on our financial accounting and reporting systems, internal controls, taxes, borrowing covenants and cash management. We anticipate that a significant amount of time, internal and external resources and expenses, over a multi-year period will be required to complete our transition to IFRS with respect to our Jewelry and Real Estate Businesses. In addition, any change in the rules of IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, or in the SEC’s acceptance of such rules, could have a significant effect on our reported financial results. The cyclical nature of the real estate industry could adversely affect our results of operations. The results of our real estate operations are affected by the cyclical nature of the real estate industry in the PRC. Property values and rents are affected by, among other factors, supply and demand of comparable properties, interest rates, unemployment rates, inflation, the rate of economic growth, tax laws and political and economic developments in the PRC. We cannot assure you that property values and rents will not decline in the future. In addition, increased competition from other pearl processing and pearl market centers could adversely affect our rents and occupancy rates at Man Sang Industrial City and China Pearls and Jewellery City as well as sales prices for our units at China Pearls and Jewellery City. Furthermore, a significant downturn in demand for pearl and jewelry products could adversely affect demand for our units at Man Sang Industrial City and China Pearls and Jewellery City. A significant downturn in demand for our units would result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to extensive governmental regulation, and we are susceptible to changes in policies related to the real estate market in the PRC. In order to develop and operate China Pearls and Jewellery City, we must obtain various permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals from the relevant administrative authorities at various stages of development, including land-use rights documents, planning permits, construction permits, and certificates or confirmations of completion and acceptance. Each approval is dependent on the satisfaction of certain pre-conditions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to fulfill the pre-conditions necessary to obtain required governmental approvals, or that we will be able to adapt to new laws, regulations or policies that may come into effect from time to time with respect to the real estate market in general or the particular processes with respect to the grant of approvals in China. There may also be delays on the part of relevant administrative bodies in reviewing our applications and granting approvals. If we fail to obtain, or experience material delays in obtaining, the requisite governmental approvals, the development, sale and lease of China Pearls and Jewellery City pearl market center 19 Table of Contents units could be substantially disrupted, which would result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our principal shareholder has substantial control over us and can affect decisions made by our shareholders. As of March 31, 2010, our principal shareholder, Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky, our President and Chairman, together with his affiliates, controls 40,775,605 of our outstanding ordinary shares and 100,000 of our outstanding preferred shares, which together represented 43,966,830, or 65.3%, of our outstanding voting shares. Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky has the requisite voting power to exert substantial influence over actions which require shareholder approval and generally to direct our affairs, including decisions regarding the election of directors, mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of the Company and might reduce the price of our shares. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. We cannot guarantee you that we will pay dividends. Any declaration of dividends will be proposed by our directors and the amount of any dividends will depend on various factors, including, without limitation, market conditions, our strategic plans and prospects, our business opportunities, our financial condition and operating results, working capital requirements and anticipated cash needs, contractual restrictions and obligations, payments by subsidiaries of cash dividends to us and legal, tax and regulatory restrictions, and other factors that our directors deem significant from time to time. It may be difficult to effect service of process upon us or our directors or to enforce any judgments obtained from non-PRC courts. Our operations are substantially conducted and substantially all of our assets are located within China. Our directors reside in Hong Kong and China, where substantially all of their assets are located. Investors may experience difficulties in effecting service of process upon us, our directors or our senior management in China and it may not be possible to effect such service of process outside China. In addition, our PRC legal counsel, Commerce & Finance Law Offices, has advised us that China does not have treaties with the United States and many other countries providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of court judgments. Therefore, recognition and enforcement in China of judgments of a court in the United States or certain other jurisdictions may be difficult or impossible. Risks Relating to Doing Business in the PRC Economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. All of our agricultural logistics business is conducted in, and all of our agricultural logistics revenues are derived from, China. The economy of China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including, but not limited to: structure; governmental involvement; level of development; growth rate of gross domestic product, or GDP; capital re-investment; allocation of resources; control of foreign currency; and rate of inflation. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industries by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. 20 Table of Contents Policies and other measures taken by the PRC government to regulate the economy could have a significant negative impact on economic conditions in China, with a resulting negative impact on our business. For example, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected by: • new laws and regulations and the interpretations of those laws and regulations; • the introduction of measures to control inflation or stimulate growth; • changes in the rate or method of taxation; or • the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversions and remittances abroad. Previous macroeconomic measures taken by the PRC government to manage economic growth could have adverse economic consequences, and recent fiscal stimulus measures may not be successful in offsetting a decline in the rate of economic growth in the PRC. In previous years, the PRC government had periodically taken measures to slow economic growth to a more manageable level, in response to concerns about China’s historical high growth rate in industrial production, bank credit, fixed investment and money supply. These measures have included macroeconomic measures to control perceived over investment in the real property market. More recently, along with a decline in economic growth worldwide, the rate of growth of the PRC economy has slowed down. In 2009, China’s real GDP grew by a rate of an estimated 8.7% as compared to a rate of 9.8% and 11.9% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. In response to the recent global economic downturn, and a resulting slowdown in the PRC economy, the PRC government has adopted increasingly flexible macroeconomic policies, including an announced fiscal stimulus package, aimed at offsetting the slowdown brought by the financial crisis. These policies include measures specifically designed to encourage development of the domestic property market, which represents a reversal on policies implemented since 2003 designed to tighten control on the real property market. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government’s fiscal stimulus package will be successful in offsetting the slowdown resulting from the current economic downturn and deterioration in the global credit markets, or that restrictive measures already in place will not adversely affect our business. The PRC legal system has inherent uncertainties that could negatively impact our business. Our business is operated through, and our revenues are generated by, our operating subsidiaries in the PRC. Substantially all of our assets are located in the PRC. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, the PRC government has issued laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and their nonbinding nature, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, as the legal system in China develops, changes in such laws and regulations, their interpretation or their enforcement may have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks of fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Renminbi and foreign currencies. From 1994 until recently, the conversion of Renminbi into U.S. dollars was based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China, which were set daily based on the previous day’s PRC interbank foreign exchange market rate and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. On July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China announced a reform of its exchange rate system and revalued the Renminbi to RMB8.11: US$1.00. Under the reform, the Renminbi would no longer be effectively linked to the United States dollar but instead would be allowed to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of foreign currencies. We cannot assure you that such exchange rate will not fluctuate widely against the U.S. dollar, Hong Kong dollar or any other foreign currency in the future. The PRC government may adopt further reforms of its exchange rate system, including making the Renminbi freely convertible in the future. However, we cannot predict if or when these 21 Table of Contents further reforms will occur. Although currently a substantial portion of our revenues, expenses and bank loans are denominated in Renminbi, we do have loans from our shareholders that are denominated in Hong Kong dollars, and notes that are denominated in U.S. dollars. Fluctuation of the value of Renminbi will affect the amount of our non-Renminbi debt service in Renminbi terms since we have to convert Renminbi into non-Renminbi currencies to service our foreign debt. Since a substantial portion of income and profits are denominated in Renminbi, any appreciation of Renminbi will also increase the value of, and any dividends payable on, our shares in foreign currency terms. Conversely, any depreciation of Renminbi will decrease the value of, and any dividends payable on, our shares in foreign currency terms. 