ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The Company faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks the Company faces. Additional risks not yet known or currently believed to be immaterial may also impair the Company’s business. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of its common stock could decline. You should consider the following risks, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to the Company’s securities. Risks Relating to Our Operations Our limited operating history makes evaluation of our business difficult We have a limited operating history and have encountered and expect to continue to encounter many of the difficulties and uncertainties often faced by early stage companies. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects, including our ability to develop a wide customer and distribution network for our services, expand our operations to include additional services and control raw material costs, all of which are critical to our success. We may encounter unanticipated problems, expenses and delays in developing and marketing our services and securing additional blending and storage facilities. We may not be able to successfully address these risks. If we are unable to address these risks, our business may not grow, our stock price may suffer, and we may be unable to stay in business. Our securities listed on the Nasdaq Stock Exchange may be subject to delisting in the event the Company does not comply with the Nasdaq continued listing requirements On December 11, 2012, the Company received two letters from the Nasdaq Stock Market (“Nasdaq”) notifying the Company that, for the past 30 consecutive business days, (i) the bid price for the Company’s common stock has closed below the minimum $1.00 per share continued listing requirement set forth in Nasdaq Listing Rule 5450(a)(1), and (ii) the Company failed to maintain at least $5 million in the Market Value of Publicly Held Shares (MVPHS) continued listing standard set forth in Nasdaq Listing Rule 5450(b)(1)(C). Pursuant to the foregoing deficiency notices and consistent with the Nasdaq rules, the Company has been granted a 180 calendar day (or until June 10, 2013) grace period to regain compliance with each of the foregoing listing deficiencies. If at any time during the grace period, the Company’s common stock closes at least $1.00 per share for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, the Company will regain its compliance with the minimum bid price deficiency. Similarly, if at any time during the grace period, the Company’s MVPHS closes at $5,000,000 or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, the Company will regain its compliance with the MVPHS listing deficiency. The Company’s Board is currently considering various options available to it in connection with the foregoing continued listing deficiencies. In the event the Company is unable to regain compliance with the foregoing listing requirements, its securities may be delisted from the Exchange, in which event the Company would seek to cause them be quoted in over the counter markets, which may result in a substantially less liquid market for the securities. If the fuel we blend fails to meet the specifications we have agreed to supply to our customers, our relationship with our customers could be adversely affected We blend marine fuel to meet customer specifications. If the fuel fails to meet the specifications we have agreed to supply to our customers, our relationship with our customers could be adversely affected, and we could be subject to claims and other liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our historical sales to significant customers have been concentrated For the year ended December 31, 2012, two customers accounted for approximately 33.08% and 10.53% of total revenues, respectively. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, one customer accounted for approximately 9.81% and 8.69% of our total revenues. No other customer contributed greater than 10% of the revenues. Our operations may be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the petroleum and petrochemical market and by the volatility of prices of crude oil and petrochemical products Almost all of our revenues are attributable to petrochemical products, which have historically been cyclical and sensitive to the availability and price of raw materials and general economic conditions. Markets for many of our products are sensitive to changes in industry capacity and output levels, cyclical changes in regional and global economic conditions, the price and availability of substitute products and changes in consumer demand, which from time to time have had a significant impact on product prices in the regional and global markets. Historically, the markets for these products have experienced alternating periods of tight supply, causing prices and margins to increase, followed by periods of capacity additions, finally resulting in oversupply and declining prices and margins. As tariffs and other import restrictions are reduced and the control of product pricing is relaxed in China, the markets for many of our products have become increasingly subject to the cyclicality of regional and global markets. For example, in 2008, abrupt changes occurred in the domestic demand for petrochemical products. In the first half of the year, the prices of petrochemical products continued to rise in conjunction with substantial rises in international oil prices. However, in the second half, there was a fall in both sales volume and prices of petrochemical products triggered by the global economic downturn. The sales volume and prices of our petrochemical products also declined, and may remain at the current levels for a sustained period of time, or even decline further from such levels. Historically, international prices of crude oil have fluctuated widely due to many factors beyond our control. For example, international crude oil prices increased significantly in the first half of 2008 but decreased significantly in the second half. After hitting successive record highs, crude oil prices began to fall rapidly, and hit a new, 3-year record low in December 2008. We expect that the volatility and uncertainty of the prices of crude oil and petrochemical products will continue. Increasing crude oil prices and declines in prices of petrochemical products may adversely affect our business and results of operations and financial condition. 17 Some of our major products are subject to government price controls, and we are not able to pass on all cost increases from rising crude oil prices through higher product prices We require large amounts of crude oil to manufacture our products. Our ability to pass on increased crude oil costs to our customers is dependent on market conditions and government regulations, particularly government regulation with respect to the price of certain of our fuel products. In particular, gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, and liquefied petroleum gas are subject to government price controls. In 2012 and 2011, no sales were from such products subject to price control. Although the Chinese government has adopted a new pricing mechanism for domestic refined oil products that indirectly links the prices of these products to international crude oil prices, such pricing mechanism is still nontransparent. Moreover, the Chinese government controls the distribution of many petroleum products in China. For instance, some of our petroleum products are required to be sold to designated distributors (such as the subsidiaries of China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation). Because we cannot freely sell our fuel products to take advantage of opportunities for higher prices and because the formula for the new pricing mechanism set by the Chinese government is not transparent, in periods of high crude oil prices, we may not be able to fully cover increases in crude oil prices by increases in the sale prices of our products, which has had and will continue to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our development plans have significant capital expenditure and financing requirements, which are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties The petrochemical business is a capital intensive business. Our ability to maintain and increase our revenues, net income and cash flows depends upon continued capital spending. Our current business strategy contemplates capital expenditures for 2013 of approximately RMB 100 million (US$15.8 million), which will be provided through financing activities, and use of our own capital. Our actual capital expenditures may vary significantly from these planned amounts due to our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, investments and other factors that may be beyond our control. In addition, there can be no assurance as to whether, or at what cost, our capital projects will be completed or the success of these projects if completed. Our ability to obtain external financing in the future is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: · our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; · the condition of the economy in China and the markets for our products; · the cost of financing and the condition of financial markets; and · the issuance of relevant government approvals and other project risks associated with the development of infrastructure in China. If we fail to obtain sufficient funding for our operations or development plans, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Material disruptions in the availability or supply of fuel would adversely affect our business The success of our business depends on our ability to purchase, sell and coordinate delivery of fuel and related services to our customers. In the past, we experienced difficulties in securing supplies of certain components for blending process. We have addressed that concern by diversifying our raw material supplies and strengthening our relationships with our existing suppliers. Our business would be adversely affected to the extent that political instability, natural disasters, terrorist activity, military action or other conditions disrupt the availability or supply of fuel. 18 Our earnings will be adversely affected by seasonality of the fishing business The Chinese government prohibits fishing vessels from fishing from June 15th to September 15th of each year, the breeding season for many varieties of fish, in order to protect marine resources and prevent overfishing. As a result, the demand for our blended fuel drops by approximately 15% during this period, which, in turn, has an adverse effect on our operations in the 3rd fiscal quarter of each calendar year. In addition, we are also subject to the reduced commercial activity during the Chinese New Year which takes place during the 1st quarter and lasts about 2 weeks. During this time, both cargo and fishing traffic decreases and we expect the demand for our products to decrease accordingly by approximately the same amount as the decrease in the 3rd quarter. Adverse conditions in the shipping and fishing industries may have an adverse effect on our business Our business is focused on the marketing of fuel and fuel-related services to the shipping and fishing industries. Therefore, any adverse economic conditions in these industries may have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, any political instability, natural disasters, terrorist activity or military action that disrupts shipping or flight operations will adversely affect our customers and may reduce the demand for our products and services. Our business also could be adversely affected by increased merger activity in such industries, which may reduce the number of customers that purchase our products and services, as well as the prices we are able to charge for such products and services. Insurance coverage for some of our operations may be insufficient to cover losses The insurance industry in China is still at an early state of its development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products or offer them at a high price. We do not maintain insurance coverage for various risks, including environmental claims. A significant uninsured claim against us would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could have a material negative impact on our business Implementation of our business strategy is predominantly dependent on the efforts of Mr. An Fengbin, our President and Chief Executive Officer. If we were to lose his services, our business and operations would be severely affected. Competition for highly qualified personnel is intense, and we have very limited resources. The loss of any executive officer or key employee or the failure to attract and retain other skilled employees could have a material adverse impact upon our business, operations or financial condition. We may be unable to protect our trademark or other proprietary intellectual property rights We rely on trademark and copyright laws, trade secret protection, non-competition and confidentiality and/or licensing agreements with our executive officers, clients, contractors, research and development personnel and others to protect our intellectual property rights. We do not possess any licenses to use third-party intellectual property rights nor do we license to third-parties any intellectual property rights we own. The protection afforded by our intellectual property may be inadequate. It may be possible for third parties to obtain and use, without our consent, intellectual property that we own or are licensed to use. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We may also be subject to litigation involving claims of violation of intellectual property rights of third parties. In order to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, we may initiate litigation against third parties. In addition, we may become subject to inference, cancellation, or opposition proceedings conducted in trademark offices or the courts to determine the priority of rights in our marks. The defense of intellectual property rights, interference, cancellation, or opposition proceedings, and other legal and administrative proceedings, would be costly and divert our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation which disclosure could substantially diminish our competitive advantages, thus, resulting in decrease revenues and possible losses. 19 We face competition and, if we are not able to effectively compete in our markets, our revenues and profits may decrease Competitive pressures in our markets could adversely affect our competitive position, leading to a possible loss of market share or a decrease in prices, either of which could result in decreased revenues and profits. Our competitors are numerous, ranging from large multinational corporations, which have significantly greater capital resources, to relatively small and specialized firms. In addition to competing with fuel resellers, we also compete with the major oil producers that market fuel directly to the large commercial airlines and shipping companies. Such major oil producers do not include the PRC oil companies since under the PRC laws, petroleum producers are precluded from blending oil and oil products. Our business could be adversely affected because of increased competition from the larger oil companies who may choose to directly market to smaller airlines and shipping companies, or to provide less advantageous price and credit terms to us than our fuel reseller competitors. We rely on few significant providers for our raw material supplies Presently, we purchase all of our raw materials only from Chinese suppliers. Our operating company, Fusheng and Xingyuan, maintain a contractual relationship with Panjin Liaohe Oil Field Dali Group Petrochemical Co., Ltd. (“Panjin”) for purchases of wax fuel oil, which we commenced in October 2005, which provides almost 20% of raw materials as we need this year. Panjin, provided 19.46% and 9.6% of our purchase of raw materials for years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Another major supplier for the year 2012 is Shanghai Lonyer Fuels Co., Ltd which provided 18.2% of raw materials as we need this year. Xingyuan also purchase, at market price, rubber filling oil from PetroChina (including Dalian, Dongbei, Liaoyang Branch) which provide 13% and 14.6% of our total purchase for the year end December 31, 2012 and 2011. For the same periods, our ten largest suppliers combined accounted for 71% and 52%, respectively, of our total purchases of raw materials. If our supply arrangements are disrupted or terminated, our business operations would suffer. Economic conditions and growth trends in our industry could materially and adversely affect our ability to maintain an adequate supply of raw materials necessary to maintain our operations. We may not be able to integrate profits from future acquisitions Acquisitions of local providers of marine oil and other similar products and services in various cities along the eastern shore of China are a part of our growth strategy. Such growth path would present a number of challenges to us, including, without limitation, needs to integrate management teams, local infrastructure, profits, etc. of such companies. We provide no assurance that we will be able to successfully acquire any such business or that we would be able to integrate profits from such acquired companies. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations related to our refining, blending and storage operations. Our failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that require us to obtain environmental permits for our operations. If we fail to comply with the provisions of our permit, we could be subject to fines, criminal charges or other sanctions by regulators, including the suspension or termination of our operations. We are required to comply with extensive and complex environmental laws and regulations at various levels in the PRC relating to, among other things: · the handling of fuel and fuel products; · the operation of bulk fuel storage facilities; · workplace safety; · fuel spillage or seepage; · environmental damage; and · hazardous waste disposal. 20 If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, if there are releases of fuel and fuel products we own, or if we are found to be in violation of environmental laws or regulations, we could be subject to liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. We cannot assure you that at all times we will be in compliance with environmental laws and regulations or our environmental permits or that we will not be required to expend significant funds to comply with, or discharge liabilities arising under, environmental laws, regulations and permits. We will continue incur significant costs as a result of being a public company In January 2010, we completed our initial public offering and became an Exchange Act reporting company and, thus, expect to continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. Moreover, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Stock Market, have imposed additional requirements on corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these new rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. We will also incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. It may also be difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors due to increased risks of liability to our directors under the new rules and regulations. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these new rules and regulations, and we cannot predict or estimate with any degree of certainty the amount or timing of additional costs we may incur. Our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition reflected in our consolidated financial statements may not be indicative of the results of operations that we would have achieved had we operated as a public entity for all periods presented or of future results that we may achieve as a publicly traded company with our current holding company structure. Such variations may be material to our business. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX 404, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports. If we cannot provide financial reports or prevent fraud, our business reputation and operating results could be harmed. Inferior internal controls also could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Risks Related to our Corporate Structure and Doing Business in China The laws of the PRC may adversely affect the rights of shareholders and their ability to prosecute claims against us, our officers and our directors, and may expose our Company to substantial litigation risk. Shareholders generally have the right under the applicable law of the state of Delaware to inspect certain books and records of the Company. There are laws governing business secrets and state secrets in the PRC that may significantly limit the scope and nature of those books and records that might be available to shareholders, and may impede the ability of our shareholders to investigate or to prosecute claims against our Company, our officers and our directors. Those same laws may also preclude us from producing information required to be produced by us pursuant to subpoena, court order or other legal process, which could in turn expose us to financial and equitable sanctions, and even to the entry of default judgments. Violation of the PRC secrecy laws can result in fines, revocation of business licenses and imprisonment. The laws of the PRC also protect the files of independent auditing firms and intermediaries involved in the securities offering diligence process from producing or delivering their records to a foreign country (such as the United States), or to an agency, instrumentality or court of a foreign country. These laws could also substantially impair our shareholders abilities to investigate and prosecute claims against our Company, our officers and our directors. 21 Chinese laws and regulations governing our businesses and the validity of certain of our contractual arrangements are uncertain. If we are found to be in violation, we could be subject to sanctions. In addition, changes in such Chinese laws and regulations may materially and adversely affect our business There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of Chinese laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our contractual arrangements with our VIE entity, Xingyuan, and its stockholders. We are considered a foreign person or foreign invested enterprise under Chinese law. These laws and regulations are relatively new and may be subject to change, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. The Chinese government has broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business and other licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. In particular, licenses and permits issued or granted to us by relevant governmental bodies may be revoked at a later time by higher regulatory bodies. We cannot predict the effect on our business of the interpretation of existing or new Chinese laws or regulations. We cannot assure you that our current ownership and operating structure would not be found in violation of any current or future Chinese laws or regulations. As a result, we may be subject to sanctions, including fines, and could be required to restructure our operations or cease to provide certain services. If the relevant authorities find us in violation of PRC laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: · levying fines; · revoking our business license, other licenses or authorities; · requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; and · requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business. Any of these or similar actions could significantly disrupt our business operations or restrict us from conducting a substantial portion of our business operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The contractual arrangements with Xingyuan and its shareholders may not be as effective in providing control over Xingyuan as direct ownership of Xingyuan and the shareholders of Xingyuan may have potential conflicts of interest with us We have no ownership interest in Xingyuan and we conduct substantially all of our operations and generate substantially all of our revenues through contractual arrangements that our subsidiary, Fusheng, had entered into with Xingyuan and its shareholders, and such contractual arrangements in 2011 are designed to provide us with effective control over Xingyuan. As a result, we moved most of subsidiaries of Xingyuan to Fusheng in order to reduce this conflict. We believe that these contractual arrangements are valid, binding and enforceable, and will not result in any violation of PRC laws or regulations currently in effect. If we had direct ownership of Xingyuan, we would be able to exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in the board of directors of Xingyuan, which in turn could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level. Due to our VIE structure, we have to rely on contractual rights to effect control and management of Xingyuan, which exposes us to the risk of potential breach of contract by the shareholders of Xingyuan. In addition, as Xingyuan is jointly owned by its shareholders, it may be difficult for us to change our corporate structure if such shareholders refuse to cooperate with us. 22 Xingyuan shareholders may have potential conflict of interest with us An Fengbin, our President and CEO, controls and is a director of Dalian Dongfangzheng Industrial Co., Ltd. (DFZ) which entity is the majority shareholder of Xingyuan. He is also a Board member of DonggangXingyuan, a subsidiary of our VIE entity. In addition, An Fengbin has the power to vote and dispose of all of the securities of Oriental Excel Enterprises Limited, a British Virgin Islands company, which, in turn, holds 100% of equity interest in Star Blessing Enterprises Limited, which entity, in turn, holds 89.04% interest in Andatee. In addition, Mr. AnFengbin has made a tender offer to acquire the shares of Andatee not owned by him. As detailed below, the foregoing relationships and ownership interests may result in certain conflicts of interests. The shareholders of Xingyuan may breach, or cause Xingyuan to breach, the contracts for a number of reasons. For example, their interests as shareholders of Xingyuan and the interests of our company may conflict and we may fail to resolve such conflicts; the shareholders may believe that breaching the contracts will lead to greater economic benefit for them; or the shareholders may otherwise act in bad faith. If any of the foregoing were to occur, we may have to rely on legal or arbitral proceedings to enforce our contractual rights, including specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages. Such arbitration and legal proceedings may cost us substantial financial and other resources, and result in disruption of our business, and we cannot assure you of a favorable outcome. In addition, as all of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through either arbitration or litigation in the PRC, they would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could further limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. Furthermore, these contracts may not be enforceable in China if PRC government authorities or courts take a view that such contracts contravene PRC laws and regulations or are otherwise not enforceable for public policy reasons. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert effective control over Xingyuan, and our ability to conduct our business may be materially and adversely affected. Xingyuan’s termination of its consulting services agreement with Fusheng may adversely affect our business and operations Under the terms of the exclusive consulting services agreement by and between Fusheng and Xingyuan, Fusheng has the exclusive right to provide to Xingyuan business consulting and related services in connection with the production and sale of marine bunker. Under this agreement, Fusheng owns the intellectual property rights arising from the performance of these services, including, but not limited to, any trade secrets, copyrights, patents, know-how, unpatented methods and processes and otherwise, whether developed by Fusheng or Xingyuan based on Fusheng’s provision of such services under the agreement. Xingyuan pays quarterly consulting service fees to Fusheng that are equal 50% of Xingyuan’s total net profit for such quarter. The consulting services agreement is in effect for a term of 10 years starting from March 26, 2009 unless terminated earlier by (a) Xingyuan upon 6 months’ prior written notice and payment to Fusheng of RMB 2,000,000 and all of Fusheng’s losses resulting from such early termination; (b) Fusheng upon Xingyuan’s breach of the agreement; or (c) Fusheng at any time upon 30 days’ prior written notice to Xingyuan. Due to the substantial expenses and time involved in finding a suitable replacement for this relationship, in the event such termination, our business and operations would be adversely affected. All of our assets are located in the PRC and all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China, and changes in the political and economic policies of the PRC government or uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in the PRC and accordingly, on the results of our operations and financial condition Our business operations may be adversely affected by the current and future political environment in the PRC. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence and control over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. Our ability to operate in China may be adversely affected by changes in Chinese laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, raw material environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. Under the current government leadership, the government of the PRC has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no assurance, however, that the government of the PRC will continue to pursue these policies, or that it will not significantly alter these policies from time to time without notice. 23 Since 1979, the Chinese government has promulgated many new laws and regulations covering general economic matters. Despite this activity to develop a legal system, China’s system of laws is not yet complete. Even where adequate law exists in China, enforcement of existing laws or contracts based on existing law may be uncertain or sporadic, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. The relative inexperience of China’s judiciary, in many cases, creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. In addition, interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political changes. Our activities in China will also be subject to administrative review and approval by various national and local agencies of China’s government. Because of the changes occurring in China’s legal and regulatory structure, we may not be able to secure the requisite governmental approval for our activities. Although we have obtained all required governmental approval to operate our business as currently conducted, to the extent we are unable to maintain required governmental approvals, the Chinese government may, in its sole discretion prohibit us from conducting our business. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference, but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, a series of new Chinese laws and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. Since the Chinese legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to you and us. Investors may not be able to serve process or enforce judgments on us or our related parties Some of our directors, including our agent for service of process, are residents of China and not of the United States, and substantially all the assets of these Chinese persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to effect service of process in the United States or to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against our Chinese officers, directors and other related parties. There is also uncertainty as to whether the courts in China would enforce judgments of United States courts against us or our directors and officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any other state, or adjudicate an original action brought in China based upon the securities laws of the United States or any other state. The contractual arrangements entered into between our Chinese VIE’s or between us and one of our Chinese VIE’s entities may be subject to audit or challenge by the Chinese tax authorities. A finding that we owe additional taxes could substantially reduce our net earnings and the value of your investment. Under Chinese laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among affiliated parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the Chinese tax authorities. We could face material and adverse tax and financial consequences if the Chinese tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements between our Chinese VIE’s or between us and one of our Chinese VIE’s or those arrangements entered into between us or one of our Chinese VIE’s and an entity affiliated with us do not represent arm’s-length prices. As a result of such a determination, the Chinese tax authorities could adjust any of the income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction of expense deductions for Chinese tax purposes recorded by us or our Chinese VIE’s or an increase in taxable income, all of which could increase our tax liabilities. In addition, the Chinese tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties on us or our Chinese VIE’s for under-paid taxes. Part of our revenues are generated through Xingyuan, and we partially rely on payments made by Xingyuan to Fusheng, our subsidiary, pursuant to contractual arrangements to transfer any such revenues to Fusheng. Any restriction on such payments and any increase in the amount of PRC taxes applicable to such payments may materially and adversely affect our business and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We conduct partially some of our operations through Xingyuan, which generates part of our revenues. Fusheng, our subsidiary in China, entered into a number of contracts with Xingyuan, pursuant to which Xingyuan pays Fusheng for certain services that Fusheng provides to Xingyuan. However, depending on the nature of services provided, certain of these payments are subject to PRC taxes at different rates, including business taxes and VATs, which effectively reduce the amount that Fusheng receives from Xingyuan. We cannot assure you that the PRC government will not impose restrictions on such payments or change the tax rates applicable to such payments. Any such restrictions on such payment or increases in the applicable tax rates may materially and adversely affect our ability to receive payments from Xingyuan or the amount of such payments, and may in turn materially and adversely affect our business, our net income and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. 24 The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities The Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land-use-rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. The central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support China’s economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Under the terms of the Circular No. 698, recently promulgated by the PRC State Administration of Taxation, a future sale or transfer of Goodwill Rich’s securities may subject us to tax liability and filing requirements in the PRC. On December 11, 2009, the PRC State Administration of Taxation (‘‘SAT’’) issued Circular No. 698 (the “Circular”), entitled Notice on Strengthening the Management of Enterprise Income Tax Collection of Proceeds from Equity Transfers by Non-resident Enterprises, indicating SAT’s intention to target off-shore transactions involving the indirect transfer of Chinese enterprises. Under the Circular, a sale of securities of an offshore entity may give rise to a tax liability in the PRC for the Chinese resident proposing the sale if SAT were to treat the transaction as a transfer of a PRC resident enterprise by a non-resident enterprise and that such offshore entity had no reasonable business purpose. Although the Circular does not contain any guidance on the precise meaning of the term ‘‘reasonable business purpose,’’ Article 120 of the Implementing Regulations of the Enterprise Income Tax Law defines the expression ‘‘not having a reasonable business purpose’’ as an activity for the purpose of reducing, avoiding or deferring the payment of taxes. If we were to transfer all or some of our securities holdings in Goodwill Rich and the SAT were to determine that Goodwill Rich had no reasonable business purpose, the PRC tax authorities, on approval of the SAT, may re-characterize the transaction, causing the existence of Goodwill Rich to be ignored, thus, treating the proposed transfer as a transfer by us of our wholly-owned onshore subsidiary, Dalian Fusheng. In such a circumstance, we would be required to make certain disclosures and tax filings with the appropriate Chinese tax authorities within seven days commencing from the agreed date of the share transfer, or from the date when we actually received the purchase price paid prior to the agreed transfer date. In addition to the tax liability, we may be required to provide SAT with various information, including documentation with respect to the relationship between us and Goodwill Rich, the business purpose of Goodwill Rich, and financial information of Goodwill Rich and our Company. The Circular is a notice issued by SAT, and, as such, does not have the legal effect of a rule or regulation. Although, under the PRC laws, SAT already had the legal authority to enforce the tax, it is not being enforced by SAT and tax forms to be filed by the PRC target enterprise in connection with a proposed transfer are not specified. SAT will need to provide additional rules and regulations to outline and clarify the application of the Circular. Therefore, based on the limited and imprecise nature of the regulatory interpretations, it is difficult for us to assess the likelihood, effect upon our operations, if any, and the extent of any tax liability in the event we determined to sell or otherwise dispose of any of the securities of our Goodwill Rich. 25 The scope of our business license in China is limited, and we may not expand or continue our business without government approval and renewal, respectively Xingyuan is our principal operating Variable Interest Entity, and Fusheng is a wholly foreign-owned enterprise, commonly known as a WFOE. A WFOE can only conduct business within its approved business scope, which ultimately appears on its business license. The scope of its business license includes consulting services in corporate, investment and corporate marketing areas as well as in commercial marketing. Any amendment or expansion to the scope of its business requires further application and government approval. Any changes to the scope of business license require application and review with the regulatory authorities. In the event such approval is not granted, our business may be adversely affected. Currently, Xingyuan and its subsidiaries maintain all necessary permits and approvals to carry out its business plan and, therefore, the scope of Fusheng’s business license has no practical limitation on the scope of business engaged in by Xingyuan or its respective subsidiaries. We cannot assure investors that Xingyuan will be able to obtain the necessary government approval for any change or expansion of its business. We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions imposed by SAFE or other Chinese government authorities if we or our Chinese employees fail to comply with recent Chinese regulations relating to employee share options or shares granted by offshore special purpose companies or offshore listed companies to Chinese citizens On December 25, 2006, the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, issued the Administration Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange Control, and the corresponding Implementation Rules were issued by the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or ‘‘SAFE,’’ on January 5, 2007. Both of these regulations became effective on February 1, 2007. According to these regulations, all foreign exchange matters relating to employee stock holding plans, share option plans or similar plans with PRC citizens’ participation require approval from the SAFE or its authorized branch. On March 28, 2007, the SAFE issued the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, Chinese citizens who are granted share options or shares by an offshore listed company are required, through a Chinese agent or Chinese subsidiary of the offshore listed company, to register with the SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our Chinese employees who may be granted share options or shares will be subject to the Stock Option Rule when we become an offshore listed company. If we or our Chinese employees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our Chinese employees may be subject to fines or other legal sanctions imposed by the SAFE or other Chinese government authorities. Recent PRC regulations relating to acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign entities may create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict or limit our ability to operate, including our ability to pay dividends. Our failure to obtain the prior approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, for any offering and the listing and trading of our common stock could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, reputation and trading price of our common stock The SAFE issued a public notice in November 2005, known as Circular 75, concerning the use of offshore holding companies in mergers and acquisitions in China. The public notice provides that if an offshore company controlled by PRC residents intends to acquire a PRC company, such acquisition will be subject to registration with the relevant foreign exchange authorities. The public notice also suggests that registration with the relevant foreign exchange authorities is required for any sale or transfer by the PRC residents of shares in an offshore holding company that owns an onshore company. The PRC residents must each submit a registration form to the local SAFE branch with respect to their ownership interests in the offshore company, and must also file an amendment to such registration if the offshore company experiences material events, such as changes in the share capital, share transfer, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions or use of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. If any PRC resident stockholder of an offshore holding company fails to make the required SAFE registration and amended registration, the onshore PRC subsidiaries of that offshore company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the offshore entity. Failure to comply with the SAFE registration and amendment requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Because of uncertainty in how the SAFE notice will be interpreted and enforced, we cannot be sure how it will affect our business operations or future plans. For example, Fusheng’s ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with the SAFE notice by our PRC resident beneficial holders. Failure by our PRC resident beneficial holders could subject these PRC resident beneficial holders to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit Xingyuan’s ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. 26 On August 8, 2006, the PRC Ministry of Commerce (“MOFCOM”), joined by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council, the State Administration of Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission and the SAFE, released a substantially amended version of the Provisions for Foreign Investors to Merge with or Acquire Domestic Enterprises (the “Revised M&A Regulations”), which took effect September 8, 2006. These new rules significantly revised China’s regulatory framework governing onshore-to-offshore restructurings and foreign acquisitions of domestic enterprises. These new rules signify greater PRC government attention to cross-border merger, acquisition and other investment activities, by confirming MOFCOM as a key regulator for issues related to mergers and acquisitions in China and requiring MOFCOM approval of a broad range of merger, acquisition and investment transactions. Further, the new rules establish reporting requirements for acquisition of control by foreigners of companies in key industries, and reinforce the ability of the Chinese government to monitor and prohibit foreign control transactions in key industries. Among other things, the revised M&A Regulations include new provisions that purport to require that an offshore special purpose vehicle, or SPV, formed for listing purposes and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals must obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such SPV’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website procedures specifying documents and materials required to be submitted to it by SPVs seeking CSRC approval of their overseas listings. However, the application of this PRC regulation remains unclear with no consensus currently existing among the leading PRC law firms regarding the scope and applicability of the CSRC approval requirement. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that CSRC approval was required, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from an offering of securities into the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our common stock. The CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies also may take actions requiring us, or making it advisable for us, to halt any offering before settlement and delivery of the securities offered. Consequently, if investors engage in market trading or other activities in anticipation of and prior to settlement and delivery, they do so at the risk that settlement and delivery may not occur. Also, if later the CSRC requires that we obtain its approval, we may be unable to obtain a waiver of the CSRC approval requirements, if and when procedures are established to obtain such a waiver. Any uncertainties and/or negative publicity regarding this CSRC approval requirement could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, published news reports in China recently indicated that the CSRC may have curtailed or suspended overseas listings for Chinese private companies. These news reports have created further uncertainty regarding the approach that the CSRC and other PRC regulators may take with respect to us. It is uncertain how our business operations or future strategy will be affected by the interpretations and implementation of Circular 75 and the Revised M&A Regulations. It is anticipated that application of the new rules will be subject to significant administrative interpretation, and we will need to closely monitor how MOFCOM and other ministries apply the rules to ensure that our domestic and offshore activities continue to comply with PRC law. Given the uncertainties regarding interpretation and application of the new rules, we may need to expend significant time and resources to maintain compliance. SAFE rules and regulations may limit our ability to transfer the proceeds from future capital raising and other similar activities to Xingyuan, our VIE in the PRC, which may adversely affect the business expansion of Xingyuan On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign invested company of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. The notice requires that the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in Renminbi converted from foreign currencies may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in Renminbi converted from foreign currencies. The use of such Renminbi capital may not be changed without SAFE’s approval, and may not in any case be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Violations of Circular 142 will result in severe penalties, such as heavy fines. As a result, Circular 142 may adversely affect the business expansion of Xingyuan. 27 The foreign currency exchange rate between U.S. Dollars and Renminbi could adversely affect our financial condition To the extent that we need to convert U.S. Dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs, our financial position and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. Dollar at that time. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. Dollars for the operational needs or paying dividends on our common stock, the dollar equivalent of our earnings from our VIE’s in China would be reduced should the dollar appreciate against the Renminbi. Until 1994, the Renminbi experienced a gradual but significant devaluation against most major currencies, including dollars, and there was a significant devaluation of the Renminbi on January 1, 1994 in connection with the replacement of the dual exchange rate system with a unified managed floating rate foreign exchange system. Since 1994, the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. Dollar has remained stable and has appreciated slightly against the U.S. Dollar. Countries, including the United States, have argued that the Renminbi is artificially undervalued due to China’s current monetary policies and have pressured China to allow the Renminbi to float freely in world markets. In July 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the dollar. Under the new policy the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of designated foreign currencies. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the dollar. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by Chinese exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currencies. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive the majority of our revenues in Renminbi. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our affiliated entities to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy its foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends, if any, in foreign currencies to our shareholders. Inflation in the PRC could negatively affect our profitability and growth While the PRC economy has experienced rapid growth, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. During the past decade, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as approximately 20% and China has experienced deflation as low as approximately minus 2%. If prices for our products and services rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies such as raw materials, it may have an adverse effect on our profitability. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. The implementation of such policies may impede economic growth. In October 2004, the People’s Bank of China, the PRC’s central bank, raised interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade and indicated in a statement that the measure was prompted by inflationary concerns in the Chinese economy. In April 2006, the People’s Bank of China raised the interest rate again. Repeated rises in interest rates by the central bank would likely slow economic activity in China which could, in turn, materially increase our costs and also reduce demand for our products and services. On March 18, 2008, China’s central bank, the People’s Bank of China, announced that the bank reserve ratio would rise half of a percentage point to 15.5% effective March 25, 2008 in an effort to reduce inflation pressures hours after Premier Wen Jiabao highlighted inflation as a major concern for the government. China’s consumer price index growth rate reached 8.7% year over year in 2008. 28 Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences As our ultimate holding company is a Delaware corporation, we are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices may occur from time-to-time in the PRC. We can make no assurance, however, that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we make equity compensation grants to persons who are PRC citizens, they may be required to register with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of the PRC, or SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt an equity compensation plan for our directors and employees and other parties under PRC law On April 6, 2007, SAFE issued the ‘‘Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company, also know as ‘‘Circular 78.’’ It is not clear whether Circular 78 covers all forms of equity compensation plans or only those which provide for the granting of stock options. For any plans which are so covered and are adopted by a non-PRC listed company after April 6, 2007, Circular 78 requires all participants who are PRC citizens to register with and obtain approvals from SAFE prior to their participation in the plan. In addition, Circular 78 also requires PRC citizens to register with SAFE and make the necessary applications and filings if they participated in an overseas listed company’s covered equity compensation plan prior to April 6, 2007. We intend to adopt an equity compensation plan in the future and make option grants to our officers and directors, most of who are PRC citizens. Circular 78 may require our officers and directors who receive option grants and are PRC citizens to register with SAFE. We believe that the registration and approval requirements contemplated in Circular 78 will be burdensome and time consuming. If it is determined that any of our equity compensation plans are subject to Circular 78, failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and participants of our equity incentive plan who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our PRC employees. In that case, our ability to compensate our employees and directors through equity compensation would be hindered and our business operations may be adversely affected. Any recurrence of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), Avian Flu, or another widespread public health problem, in the PRC could adversely affect our operations A renewed outbreak of SARS, Avian Flu or another widespread public health problem in China, where all of our manufacturing facilities are located and where all of our sales occur, could have a negative effect on our operations. Our business is dependent upon our ability to continue to manufacture products. Such an outbreak could have an impact on our operations as a result of: · quarantines or closures of some of our manufacturing facilities, which would severely disrupt our operations, · the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, and · a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our operations. 29 Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material and adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products Most of our business operations are conducted in China and most of our revenues are generated in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, the level of development, the growth rate, the control of foreign exchange, and the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past 30 years, the growth has been uneven geographically among various sectors of the economy, and during different periods. We cannot assure you that the Chinese economy will continue to grow, or that if there is growth, such growth will be steady and uniform, or that if there is a slowdown, such slowdown will not have a negative effect on our business. For example, the Chinese economy experienced high inflation in the second half of 2007 and the first half of 2008. China’s consumer price index soared 7.9% during the six months ended June 30, 2008 as compared to the same period in 2007. To combat inflation and prevent the economy from overheating, the PRC government adopted a number of tightening macroeconomic measures and monetary policies, including increasing interest rates, raising statutory reserve rates for banks and controlling bank lending to certain industries or economic sectors. However, due in part to the impact of the global crisis in financial services and credit markets and other factors, the growth rate of China’s gross domestic product has decreased to 6.8% in the fourth quarter of 2008, down from 11.9% reached in the second quarter of 2007. As a result, beginning in September 2008, among other measures, the PRC government began to loosen macroeconomic measures and monetary policies by reducing interest rates and decreasing the statutory reserve rates for banks. In addition, in November 2008 the PRC government announced an economic stimulus package in the amount of $586 billion. We cannot assure you that the various macroeconomic measures, monetary policies and economic stimulus package adopted by the PRC government to guide economic growth and the allocation of resources will be effective in sustaining the fast growth rate of the Chinese economy. In addition, such measures, even if they benefit the overall Chinese economy in the long-term, may adversely affect us. A downturn in the economy of the PRC may slow our growth and profitability The Chinese economy has grown at an approximately 9% annual rate for more than 25 years, making it the fastest growing major economy in recorded history. In 2007, China’s economy grew by 11.4%, the fastest pace in 11 years, according to the National Bureau of Statistics. We cannot assure you that growth of the Chinese economy will be steady, that inflation will be controllable or that any slowdown in the economy or uncontrolled inflation will not have a negative effect on our business. Several years ago, the Chinese economy experienced deflation, which may recur in the future. More recently, the Chinese government announced its intention to continuously use macroeconomic tools and regulations to slow the rate of growth of the Chinese economy, the results of which are difficult to predict. Adverse changes in the Chinese economy will likely impact the financial performance of a variety of industries in China that use or would be candidates to use our products. If such adverse changes were to occur, our customers and potential customers could reduce spending on our products and services. Contract drafting, interpretation and enforcement in China involves significant uncertainty We have entered into numerous contracts governed by PRC law, many of which are material to our business. As compared with contracts in the United States, contracts governed by PRC law tend to contain less detail and are not as comprehensive in defining contracting parties’ rights and obligations. As a result, contracts in China are more vulnerable to disputes and legal challenges. In addition, contract interpretation and enforcement in China is not as developed as in the United States, and the result of any contract dispute is subject to significant uncertainties. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to disputes under our material contracts, and if such disputes arise, we cannot assure you that we will prevail. 30 Because our business is located in the PRC, we may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls, which it is required to do in order to comply with U.S. securities laws PRC companies have historically not adopted a Western style of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, which includes strong corporate governance, internal controls and, computer, financial and other control systems. Most of our middle and top management staff are not educated and trained in the Western system, and we may have difficulty hiring new employees in the PRC with such training. In addition, we may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. Therefore, we may, in turn, experience difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls which could impact the reliability of our financial statements and prevent us from complying with SEC rules and regulations and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any such deficiencies, weaknesses or lack of compliance could have a materially adverse effect on our business. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. ITEM 