RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Argentina General We are a stock corporation (sociedad anónima) incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Argentina and substantially all of our revenues are earned in Argentina and substantially all of our operations, facilities, and customers are located in Argentina. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations depend to a significant extent on macroeconomic, regulatory, political and financial conditions prevailing in Argentina, including growth, inflation rates, currency exchange rates, interest rates, and other local, regional and international events and conditions that may affect Argentina in any manner. For example, slower economic growth or economic recession could lead to a decreased demand for electricity in the service areas in which our subsidiaries operate or a decline in the purchasing power of our customers, which, in turn, could lead to a decrease in collection rates from our customers or increased energy losses due to illegal use of our services. Actions of the Argentine Government concerning the economy, including decisions with respect to inflation, interest rates, price controls, foreign exchange controls and taxes, have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on private sector entities, including us. For example, during the Argentine economic crisis of 2001, the Argentine Government froze electricity distribution margins and caused the pesification of our tariffs, which had a materially adverse effect on our business and financial condition and led us to suspend payments on our financial debt at the time. We cannot assure you that the Argentine Government will not adopt other policies that could adversely affect the Argentine economy or our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that future economic, regulatory, social and political developments in Argentina will not impair our business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause the market value of our ADSs to decline. A global financial crisis and unfavorable credit and market conditions may negatively affect our liquidity, customers, business, and results of operations The effects of a global credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, an impact that is likely to be more severe on an emerging market economy, such as Argentina. The effect of this economic crisis on our customers and on us cannot be predicted. Weak economic conditions could lead to reduced demand or lower prices for energy, which could have a negative effect on our revenues. Economic factors such as unemployment, inflation and the availability of credit could also have a material adverse effect on demand for energy and, therefore, on our financial condition and operating results. The financial and economic situation may also have a negative impact on third parties with whom we do, or may do, business. In addition, our ability to access credit or capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would need financing, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions (see “Argentina’s ability to obtain financing from international markets is limited, which may impair its ability to implement reforms and foster economic growth, and consequently, may affect our business, results of operations and prospects for growth”). For these reasons, any of the foregoing factors or a combination of these factors could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and cause the market value of our ADSs to decline. The Argentine economy remains vulnerable and any significant decline could adversely affect our financial condition Sustainable economic growth in Argentina is dependent on a variety of factors, including international demand for Argentine exports, the stability and competitiveness of the Argentine Peso against foreign currencies, confidence among consumers and foreign and domestic investors and a stable rate of inflation. The Argentine economy remains vulnerable, as reflected by the following economic conditions: · GDP growth has declined and employment is beginning to show some signals of weakness; · inflation has accelerated recently and threatens to continue at those levels; 10 · investment as a percentage of GDP remains too low to sustain the growth rate of recent years; · the availability of long-term credit is scarce, while international financing remains limited; · the regulatory environment continues to be uncertain; · in the climate created by the above conditions, demand for foreign currency has grown, generating a capital flight effect to which the Argentine Government has responded with regulations and currency exchange and transfer restrictions, and it is widely reported that in other countries where the Peso is traded, the Peso/U.S. Dollar exchange rate differs substantially from the official exchange rate in Argentina; and · previous GDP performance has depended to some extent on high commodity prices which, despite having a favorable long-term trend, are volatile in the short-term and beyond the control of the Argentine Government. As in the recent past, Argentina’s economy may be adversely affected if political and social pressures inhibit the implementation by the Argentine Government of policies designed to control inflation, generate growth and enhance consumer and investor confidence, or if policies implemented by the Argentine Government that are designed to achieve these goals are not successful. These events could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, or cause the market value of our ADSs to decline. We cannot assure you that a decline in economic growth, increased economic instability or the expansion of economic policies and measures taken by the Argentine Government to control inflation or address other macroeconomic developments that affect private sector enterprises such as us, all developments over which we have no control, would not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations or would not have a negative impact on the market value of our ADSs. The impact of inflation in Argentina on our costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations Inflation has, in the past, materially undermined the Argentine economy and the Argentine Government’s ability to create conditions that permit growth. In recent years, Argentina has confronted inflationary pressure, evidenced by significantly higher fuel, energy and food prices, among other factors. According to data published by the Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Censos (National Statistics and Census Institute or “INDEC”), the rate of inflation reached 9.5% in 2011, 10.8% in 2012 and 10.6% in 2013. The Argentine Government has implemented programs to control inflation and monitor prices for essential goods and services, including freezing the prices of supermarket products, and price support arrangements agreed between the Argentine Government and private sector companies in several industries and markets. A high inflation environment would undermine Argentina’s foreign competitiveness by diluting the effects of the Argentine Peso devaluation, negatively impact the level of economic activity and employment and undermine confidence in Argentina’s banking system, which could further limit the availability of domestic and international credit to businesses. In turn, a portion of the Argentine debt is adjusted by the Coeficiente de Estabilización de Referencia (Stabilization Coefficient, or “CER”), a currency index, that is strongly related to inflation. Therefore, any significant increase in inflation would cause an increase in the Argentine external debt and consequently in Argentina’s financial obligations, which could exacerbate the stress on the Argentine economy. A continuing high inflation environment could undermine our results of operations as a result of a delay in our ability to, or our inability to, adjust our tariffs accordingly; it could adversely affect our ability to finance the working capital needs of our businesses on favorable terms; and it could adversely affect our results of operations and cause the market value of our ADSs to decline. 11 The credibility of several Argentine economic indices has been called into question, which may lead to a lack of confidence in the Argentine economy and may in turn limit our ability to access the credit and capital markets In January 2007, INDEC modified its methodology used to calculate the consumer price index (the “CPI”), which is calculated as the monthly average of a weighted basket of consumer goods and services that reflects the pattern of consumption of Argentine households. Since then, the credibility of the CPI, as well as other indexes published by the INDEC has been affected. As a result of the uncertainty relating to the accuracy of INDEC indices, the inflation rate of Argentina and the other rates calculated by INDEC could be higher than as indicated in official reports. On November 23, 2010, the Argentine Government began consulting with the International Monetary Fund (“IMF”) for technical assistance in order to prepare a new national consumer price index with the aim of modernizing the current statistical system. During the first quarter of 2011, a team from the IMF started working in conjunction with the INDEC to create such an index. Notwithstanding the foregoing, reports published by the IMF state that its staff also uses alternative measures of inflation for macroeconomic surveillance, including data produced by private sources, and such measures have shown inflation rates that are considerably higher than those issued by the INDEC since 2007. Consequently, the IMF called on Argentina to adopt remedial measures to address the quality of its official data. In its meeting held on February 1, 2013, the Executive Board of the IMF found that Argentina’s progress in implementing remedial measures since September 2012 had not been sufficient. As a result, the IMF issued a declaration of censure against Argentina in connection with the breach of its related obligations to the IMF under the Articles of Agreement and called on Argentina to adopt remedial measures to address the inaccuracy of inflation and GDP data without further delay. In order to address the quality of official data, a new price index was put in place on February 13, 2014. The new price index represents the first national indicator to measure changes in prices of final consumption by households. While the previous price index only measured inflation in the urban sprawl of the City of Buenos Aires, the new price index is calculated by measuring prices on goods across the entire urban population of the 24 provinces of Argentina. Pursuant to these calculations, the new consumer price index rose by 10% during the first quarter of 2014. The IMF has declared that it will review later in 2014 Argentina’s reports on progress in revising its inflation and gross domestic product statistics. Any further required correction or restatement of the INDEC indices could result in a decrease in confidence in Argentina’s economy, which could, in turn, have an adverse effect on our ability to access international capital markets to finance our operations and growth, and which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and cause the market value of our ADSs to decline. Argentina’s ability to obtain financing from international markets is limited, which may impair its ability to implement reforms and foster economic growth and, consequently, may affect our business, results of operations and prospects for growth In 2005, Argentina restructured part of its sovereign debt that had been in default since the end of 2001. The Argentine government announced that as a result of this restructuring, it had approximately U.S.$129.2 billion in total gross public debt as of December 31, 2005. Holdout creditors that declined to participate in the exchanges commenced numerous lawsuits against Argentina in several countries, including the United States, Italy, Germany, and Japan. These lawsuits generally assert that Argentina has failed to make timely payments of interest and/or principal on their bonds, and seek judgments for the face value of and/or accrued interest on those bonds. Judgments have been issued in several proceedings but to date judgment creditors have not succeeded in having those judgments enforced. In at least one case, plaintiffs have asserted that allowing Argentina to make payments under its newly issued bonds and remain in default on its pre-2002 bonds violates the pari passu clause in the original bonds and entitles the plaintiffs to enjoin such payments. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit has ruled in that case that the ranking clause in bonds issued by Argentina prevents Argentina from making such payments unless it makes pro rata payments in respect of defaulted debt that ranks pari passu with the performing bonds. On August 23, 2013, the United States Second Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in favor of the plaintiffs. On November 18, 2013, the Second Circuit Court of Appeals denied Argentina’s petition for rehearing. 12 On April 30, 2010, Argentina launched a new debt exchange directed to holders of the securities issued in the 2005 debt exchange and to holders of the securities that were eligible to participate in the 2005 debt exchange (other than Brady bonds) to exchange such debt for new securities and, in certain cases, a cash payment. As a result of the 2005 and 2010 exchange offers, Argentina restructured over 91% of the defaulted debt eligible for the 2005 and 2010 exchange offers. The creditors who did not participate in the 2005 or 2010 exchange offers may continue pursuing legal actions against Argentina for the recovery of debt, which could adversely affect Argentina’s access to the international capital markets. In September 2008, Argentina announced its intention to cancel its external public debt to Paris Club creditor nations using reserves of the Banco Central de la República Argentina (the Argentine Central Bank, or the “Central Bank”) in an amount equal to approximately U.S. $6.5 billion. Even though preliminary negotiations have taken place close to the date of this annual report, no agreement has been reached in this respect and, as of the date of this annual report, the Argentine Government had not yet cancelled such debt. If no agreement with the Paris Club creditor nations is reached, financing from multilateral financial institutions may be limited or unavailable, which could adversely affect economic growth in Argentina and Argentina’s public finances. In addition, foreign shareholders of several Argentine companies have filed claims before the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (the “ICSID”) alleging that certain government measures adopted during the country’s 2001 crisis were inconsistent with the fair and equitable treatment standards set forth in various bilateral investment treaties to which Argentina is a party. Since May 2005, certain plaintiffs have prevailed against Argentina in such proceedings, including most recently, British Gas whose U.S.$ 185 million award was upheld by the United States Supreme Court. In October 2013, the Argentine Government entered into settlement agreements with certain claimants worth U.S.$677 million, to be satisfied with the delivery of newly issued sovereign bonds. Argentina’s past default and its failure to completely restructure its remaining sovereign debt and fully negotiate with the holdout creditors may limit Argentina’s ability to reenter the international capital markets. Litigation initiated by holdout creditors as well as ICSID claims have resulted and may continue to result in judgments and awards against the Argentine Government which, if not paid, could prevent Argentina from obtaining credit from multilateral organizations. Judgment creditors have sought and may continue to seek to attach or enjoin assets of Argentina. An example of this is the Libertad Frigate case, in which a commercial court in Accra, Ghana, granted an order (which has been overturned) to detain an Argentine ship which had entered the Accra port on a routine trip. In addition, various creditors have organized themselves into associations to engage in lobbying and public relations efforts concerning Argentina’s default on its public indebtedness. Over the years, such groups have unsuccessfully urged passage of federal and New York state legislation directed at Argentina’s defaulted debt and aimed at limiting Argentina’s access to the U.S. capital markets. Although neither the United States Congress nor the New York state legislature has adopted such legislation, we can make no assurance that legislation or other political actions designed to limit Argentina’s access to capital markets will not take effect. As a result of Argentina’s default and the events that have followed it, the government may not have the financial resources necessary to implement reforms and foster economic growth, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the country’s economy and, consequently, our businesses and results of operations. Furthermore, Argentina’s inability to obtain credit in international markets could have a direct impact on our own ability to access international credit markets to finance our operations and growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and cause the market value of our ADSs to decline. Fluctuations in the value of the Argentine Peso could adversely affect the Argentine economy, which could, in turn adversely affect our results of operations The devaluation of the Argentine Peso could have a negative impact on the financial condition of many Argentine businesses, including us. Such situation could negatively impact the ability of Argentine businesses to honor their foreign currency-denominated debt, lead to very high inflation, significantly reduce real wages, jeopardize the stability of businesses whose success depends on domestic market demand, including public utilities and the financial industry, and adversely affect the Argentine Government’s ability to honor its foreign debt obligations. On January 2014, the peso lost approximately 23% of its value with respect to the US Dollar. If the Argentine Peso devalues further, the negative effects on the Argentine economy could have adverse consequences to our businesses, our results of operations and the market value of our ADSs, including as measured in U.S. Dollars. 13 On the other hand, a significant appreciation of the Argentine Peso against the U.S. Dollar also presents risks for the Argentine economy, including the possibility of a reduction in exports (as a consequence of the loss of external competitiveness). Any such increase could also have a negative effect on economic growth and employment, reduce the Argentine public sector’s revenues from tax collection in real terms, and have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and the market value of our ADSs as a result of the weakening of the Argentine economy in general. Certain measures that may be taken by the Argentine Government may adversely affect the Argentine economy and, as a result, our business and results of operations During recent years, the Argentine Government has increased its direct intervention in the economy, including through the implementation of expropriation and nationalization measures, price controls and exchange controls. In November 2008, the Argentine Government enacted Law No. 26,425 which provided for the nationalization of the Administradoras de Fondos de Jubilaciones y Pensiones (the “AFJPs”) (see “The nationalization of Argentina’s private pension funds caused an adverse effect in the Argentine capital markets and increased the Argentine government’s interest in certain stock exchange listed companies, such that the Argentine government became a significant shareholder of such companies”). More recently, beginning in April 2012, the Argentine government provided for the nationalization of YPF. and imposed major changes to the system under which oil companies operate, principally through the enactment of Law No. 26,741 and Decree No. 1277/2012. In February 2014, the Argentine Government and Repsol announced that they had reached agreement on the terms of the compensation payable to Repsol for the expropriation of the YPF shares. Such compensation totals U.S.$. 5 billion, payable by delivery of Argentine sovereign bonds with various maturities. Additionally, on December 19, 2012, the Argentine Government issued Decree No. 2552/2012 which, in its article 2, ordered the expropriation of the “Predio Rural de Palermo”. However, on January 4, 2013, the Federal Civil and Commercial Chamber granted an injunction that has temporarily blocked the application of Decree No. 2,552/2012. We cannot assure you that these or other measures that may be adopted by the Argentine Government, such as expropriation, nationalization, forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, new taxation policies, changes in laws, regulations and policies affecting foreign trade, investment, etc., will not have a material adverse effect on the Argentine economy and, as a consequence, adversely affect our financial condition, our results of operations and the market value of our shares and ADSs. Exchange controls and restrictions on capital inflows and outflows may continue to limit the availability of international credit and could threaten the financial system and lead to renewed political and social tensions, adversely affecting the Argentine economy, and, as a result, our business In 2001 and 2002, Argentina imposed exchange controls and transfer restrictions, substantially limiting the ability of companies to retain foreign currency or make payments abroad. After 2002, these restrictions, including those requiring the Central Bank’s prior authorization for the transfer of funds abroad to pay principal and interest on debt obligations, were substantially eased through 2007. Since the last quarter of 2011, however, new regulation made foreign exchange transactions subject to the prior approval of the Argentine tax authorities. Through a combination of foreign exchange and tax regulations, the Argentine authorities have significantly curtailed access to foreign exchange by individuals and private-sector entities. Since 2011, the Argentine Government has adopted exchange controls such as requiring an authorization of tax authorities to access the foreign currency exchange market and introduced measures that have imposed limits on access to the foreign exchange market to retail transactions. It is widely reported that the peso/U.S. Dollar exchange rate in the unofficial market substantially differs from the official foreign exchange rate. See “Exchange Rates” and “Item 10—Exchange Controls.” In addition to the foreign exchange restrictions, in June 2005 the Argentine government adopted various rules and regulations that established new restrictive controls on capital inflows into the country, including a requirement that, for certain funds remitted into Argentina, an amount equal to 30% of the funds must be deposited into an account with a local financial institution as a U.S. Dollar deposit for a one-year period without any accrual of interest, benefit or other use as collateral for any transaction. 14 The Argentine Government could impose further exchange controls, transfer restrictions or restrictions on the movement of capital and/or take other measures in response to capital flight or a significant depreciation of the Peso, which could limit our ability to access the international capital markets and impair our ability to make interest or principal payments abroad or payments. Such measures could lead to renewed political and social tensions and undermine the Argentine Government’s public finances, which could adversely affect Argentina’s economy and prospects for economic growth, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business and results of operations and the market value of our shares and ADSs. In addition, the Argentine Government or the Central Bank may reenact certain restrictions on the transfers of funds abroad, impairing our ability to make dividend payments to holders of the ADSs, which may adversely affect the market value of our ADSs. As of the date of this annual report, however, the transfer of funds abroad to pay dividends is permitted to the extent such dividend payments are made in connection with audited financial statements approved by a shareholders’ meeting. Notwithstanding the foregoing, as of the date of this annual report, in light of applicable regulations the financial situation of the Company does not permit the payment of dividends. The nationalization of Argentina’s private pension funds caused an adverse effect in the Argentine capital markets and increased the Argentine Government’s interest in certain stock exchange listed companies, such that the Argentine Government became a significant shareholder of such companies Prior to 2009, a significant portion of the local demand for securities of Argentine companies came from Argentine private pension funds. In response to the global economic crisis, in December 2008, by means of Argentine Law No. 26,425, the Argentine Congress unified the Argentine pension and retirement system into a system publicly administered by the Administración Nacional de la Seguridad Social (the National Social Security Agency, or “ANSES”), eliminating the pension and retirement system previously administered by private managers. In accordance with the new law, private pension managers transferred all of the assets administered by them under the pension and retirement system to the ANSES. With the nationalization of Argentina’s private pension funds, the Argentine government became a significant shareholder in many of the country’s public companies. In April 2011, the Argentine Government lifted certain restrictions pursuant to which ANSES was prevented from exercising more than 5% of its voting rights in any stock exchange listed company (regardless of the equity interest held by ANSES in such companies). ANSES has publicly stated that it intends to exercise its voting rights in excess of such 5% limit in order to appoint directors in different stock exchange listed companies in which it holds an interest exceeding 5%. ANSES’s interests may differ from those of other investors and, consequently, those investors may understand that ANSES’s actions might have an adverse effect on such companies. As of the date of this annual report, ANSES owns shares representing 23.23% of the capital stock of the Company and also owns shares of the capital stock of our subsidiaries Edenor and Transener. The Argentine Government has stated its intention to exert a stronger influence on the operation of stock exchange listed companies. We cannot assure you that these or other similar actions taken by the Argentine Government will not have an adverse effect on the Argentine economy and consequently on our financial condition and results of operations. The Argentine economy could be adversely affected by economic developments in other markets and by more general “contagion” effects Argentine financial and securities markets are influenced, to varying degrees, by economic and financial conditions in other markets and Argentina’s economy is vulnerable to external shocks, including those related or similar to the global economic crisis that began in 2008. For example, the recent challenges faced in 2011 and 2012 by the European Union to stabilize certain of its member economies had international implications affecting the stability of global financial markets, which hindered economies worldwide and negatively affected the Argentine economy, and in turn, our business and results of operations. Although economic conditions can vary from country to country, investors’ perception of the events occurring in other countries have in the past substantially affected, and may continue to substantially affect capital flows to other countries and the value of securities in other countries, including Argentina. The Argentine economy was adversely impacted by the political and economic events that occurred in several emerging economies in the 1990s, including those in Mexico in 1994, the collapse of several Asian economies between 1997 and 1998, the economic crisis in Russia in 1998 and the Brazilian devaluation of its currency in January 1999. 15 In addition, international investors’ reactions to events occurring in one market sometimes demonstrate a “contagion” effect in which an entire region or class of investment is disfavored by international investors, Argentina could be adversely affected by negative economic or financial developments in other countries, which in turn may have material adverse effect on the Argentine economy and, indirectly, on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the market value of our ADSs. Argentina’s economy is vulnerable to external shocks that could be caused by significant economic difficulties of its major regional trading partners Argentina’s economy is vulnerable to adverse developments affecting its principal trading partners. A significant decline in the economic growth of any of Argentina’s major trading partners, such as Brazil, China or the United States, could have a material adverse impact on Argentina’s balance of trade and adversely affect Argentina’s economic growth. Recent economic slowdowns, especially in Brazil and China, have led to declines in Argentine exports. Declining demand for Argentine exports, or a decline in the international market prices for those products, could have a material adverse effect on Argentina’s economic growth. The actions taken by the Argentine Government to reduce imports may affect our ability to purchase significant capital goods The Argentine Government has recently adopted some initiatives designed to limit the import of goods in order to prevent further deterioration of the Argentine balance of trade. The restriction of imports may limit our ability to purchase capital goods that are necessary for our operations, which may, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recently approved Argentine judicial reforms, as well as challenges thereto, have generated uncertainty with respect to future administrative and judicial proceedings involving the Argentine Government Law No. 26,854, which regulates injunctions in cases in which the Argentine Government is a party or has intervened, was promulgated on April 30, 2013 as part of a judicial reform bill approved by the Argentine Congress. Among the principal changes proposed in the judicial reform bill are a time limitation on injunctions imposed in proceedings brought against the Argentine government and the creation of three new chambers of Casación (which hear appeals) prior to the intervention of the Supreme Court of Justice of Argentina. In addition, Law No. 26,855, which became effective on May 27, 2013, modified the structure and functions of the Argentine Consejo de la Magistratura (judicial council), which is in charge of appointing judges, of presenting charges against them, and of suspending or deposing them. However, several legal challenges have been brought against these laws, leading to rulings which for the time being have prevented them from entering into full effect. Although it is not possible to predict the degree to which the reforms, if and when the same become effective, might affect future administrative and/or judicial proceedings, potential future claims by us against the Argentine government could be affected by these new laws. Risks Relating to the Argentine Electricity and Oil and Gas Sectors The Argentine Government has intervened in the electricity sector in the past, and is likely to continue intervening To address the Argentine economic crisis in 2001 and 2002, the Argentine Government adopted the Public Emergency Law and other regulations, which made a number of material changes to the regulatory framework applicable to the electricity sector. These changes severely affected electricity generation, distribution and transmission companies and included the freezing of distribution nominal margins, the pesification of tariffs, the revocation of adjustment and inflation indexation mechanisms of tariffs, a limitation on the ability of electricity distribution companies to pass on to the consumer increases in costs due to regulatory charges and the introduction of a new price-setting mechanism in the wholesale electricity market (the “WEM”) which had a significant impact on electricity generators and generated substantial price differences within the market. The Argentine Government continues to intervene in this sector, including by granting temporary nominal margin increases, proposing a new social tariff regime for residents of poverty-stricken areas, creating specific charges to raise funds that are transferred to government-managed trust funds that finance investments in generation and distribution infrastructure and mandating investments for the construction of new generation plants and the expansion of existing transmission and distribution networks. 16 Furthermore, on November 15, 2011, the Secretaría de Energía (the “Secretariat of Energy”, or the “SE”) issued Note No. 8752, which provided that any approval by the provincial governments of increases to the electricity tariffs applicable to end-users as of November 1, 2011, will trigger a proportionate decrease in the federal subsidy available to that end-user in connection with the purchase of electricity. Since the issuance of Note No. 8752, certain provincial governments have initiated legal proceedings to challenge the jurisdiction of the Secretariat of Energy to issue Note No. 8752, particularly because of the potential chilling effect that this regulation may have on the ability of the provincial governments to increase electricity tariffs. Some of these proceedings have been resolved as of the date of this annual report. In addition to the foregoing, several provincial governments have recently enacted new regulations in order to charge electricity end-users amounts corresponding to the cuts in the federal subsidy. On November 27, 2012, the Secretariat of Energy issued SE Resolution No. 2016/2012, which approved the seasonal WEM prices – subsidized and not subsidized − for the period of November 2012 through April 2013. The Subsidized WEM Seasonal Reference Price was established at Ps. 320 per MWh. Each local authority is to define the local prices to be included in the local distributor’s tariff. Also, on November 23, 2012, under ENRE Resolution No. 347/2012, in accordance with the terms stated in clause 4.2 of the Contract Renegotiation Memorandum of Understanding duly signed with the UNIREN, the ENRE allowed Edenor to begin applying a differential fixed amount for each of the different tariff categories, which will be shown as a separate item on users’ bills, with the exception of customers that are exempt from paying the tariff scheme of ENRE Resolution No. 628/2008. Additionally, there was an instruction to create a special account where each distribution company must deposit the received amounts, which will be used exclusively for infrastructure and maintenance works in the facilities of their area, and administered by a trust. The amounts received by Edenor will be calculated based on the credits and debits corresponding to the ENRE’s analysis at the moment of the Full Tariff Review (“FTR”). However, such additional revenue is insufficient to make up the deficit attributable to the constant increase of operating costs and the expectations regarding salary or third-party costs increases for the year 2013. The Argentine Government has also announced an analysis of new measures that would change the current regulatory framework of the energy sector. On March 26, 2013, the Secretariat of Energy issued SE Resolution No. 95/2013, which introduced a new scheme for the remuneration for the generation sector and several modifications to the organization of the WEM, including the suspension of the administration of new contracts, or the renewal of existing contracts, in the term market of the WEM (see “