Item 1A. Risk Factors A wide range of factors could materially affect our performance. The following factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered. Although the risk factors described below are the ones management deems significant, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following events actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business If our efforts to retain and attract subscribers are not successful, our revenues will be adversely affected. We generate substantially all of our revenue from subscriptions to our services. We must continue to retain existing and attract new subscribers. If our efforts to satisfy our existing subscribers are not successful, we may not be able to retain them, and as a result, our revenues would be adversely affected. For example, if consumers do not perceive our services to be reliable, valuable and of high quality, if we fail to regularly introduce new and improved services, or if we introduce new services that are not favorably received by the market, we may not be able to retain existing or attract new subscribers. We rely on our marketing and advertising efforts, including television and online and offline performance-based and fixed-cost programs, to retain existing subscribers and attract new subscribers. If 10 Table of Contents we are unable to effectively retain existing subscribers and attract new subscribers, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. The relative service levels, pricing and related features of competitors to our products and services are some of the factors that may adversely impact our ability to retain existing subscribers and attract new subscribers. Some of our current competitors provide genealogical records free of charge. Some governments or private organizations may make historical records available online at no cost to consumers and some commercial entities could choose to make such records available on an advertising-supported basis rather than a subscription basis. If consumers are able to satisfy their family history research needs at no or lower cost, they may not perceive value in our products and services. If our efforts to satisfy and retain our existing subscribers are not successful, we may not be able to continue to attract new subscribers through word-of-mouth referrals. Further, subscriber growth may decrease as a result of a decline in interest in family history research. Any of these factors could cause our subscriber growth rate to fall, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our recent revenue growth rate may not be sustainable, which could negatively affect our stock price or financial condition and results of operations. Our revenues have grown rapidly, increasing from $140.3 million in 2005 to $224.9 million in 2009, representing a compound annual growth rate of 12.5%. We may not be able to sustain our recent growth rate in future periods and you should not rely on the revenue growth of any prior quarterly or annual periods as an indication of our future performance. Additionally, we expect to continue to devote substantial resources and funds to improving our technologies and product offerings and acquiring new and relevant content, and also to expanding awareness of our brand and category through marketing, which may reduce our margins in the near term. If our margins or our future growth resulting from our implementation of these strategies fail to meet investor or analyst expectations, it could have a negative effect on our stock price. If our growth rate were to decline significantly or become negative, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we experience excessive rates of subscriber churn, our revenues and business will be harmed. We must continually add new subscribers both to replace subscribers who choose not to renew their subscriptions and to grow our business beyond our current subscriber base. We describe the percentage of subscribers who elect not to renew their subscriptions as subscriber “churn.” Subscribers choose not to renew their subscriptions for many reasons, including a desire to reduce discretionary spending or a perception that they do not use the service sufficiently, the service is a poor value, competitive services provide a better value or experience, or subscriber service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. Subscribers may choose not to renew their subscription at any time prior to the renewal date. If we are unable to attract new subscribers in numbers greater than our subscriber churn, our subscriber base will decrease and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. If our subscriber churn increases, we may be required to increase the rate at which we add new subscribers in order to maintain and grow our revenues. If excessive numbers of subscribers cancel our service, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing and advertising expenses than we currently anticipate to replace these subscribers with new subscribers. A significant increase in our subscriber churn would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because we recognize revenues from subscriptions to our service over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in subscription sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results and therefore could affect our operating results in later periods. We recognize revenues from subscribers ratably over the term of their subscriptions. Given the mix of annual subscriptions, a large portion of our revenues for each quarter reflects deferred revenue from subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenues in that quarter but will negatively affect our revenues in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns or upturns in subscription sales or 11 Table of Contents market acceptance of our service, or changes in subscriber churn, may not fully impact our results of operations until future periods. Because we generate substantially all of our revenue from online family history resources, particularly in the United States and United Kingdom, a decline in demand for our services or for online family history resources in general, and particularly of the United States and United Kingdom, could cause our revenue to decline. We generate substantially all of our revenue from our online family history services, and we expect that we will continue to depend upon our online family history services for substantially all of our revenue in the foreseeable future. Because we depend on our online family history services, factors such as changes in consumer preferences for these products may have a disproportionately greater impact on us than if we offered multiple services. The market for online family history resources, and for consumer services in general, is subject to rapidly changing consumer demand and trends in preferences. If consumer interest in our online family history services declines, or if consumer interest in family history in general declines, we would likely experience a significant loss of revenue. Some of the potential factors that could affect interest in and demand for online family history services include: • individuals’ interest in, and their willingness to spend time and money, conducting family history research; • availability of discretionary funds; • awareness of our brand and the family history category; • the appeal and reliability of our services; • the price, performance and availability of competing family history products and services; • public concern regarding privacy and data security; • our ability to maintain high levels of customer satisfaction; and • the rate of growth in online commerce generally. In addition, we recognize substantially all of our revenues from subscribers in the United States, the United Kingdom, and to a lesser extent, Australia and Canada. Consequently, a decrease of interest in and demand for online family history services in these countries could have a disproportionately greater impact on us than if our geographic mix of revenue was less concentrated. A change in our mix of subscription durations could have a significant impact on our revenue and churn. A majority of our subscribers have annual subscriptions. At any point in time, however, the majority of new subscribers generally sign up for monthly subscriptions, and may or may not choose to renew or convert to an annual subscription. We generally experience higher rates of churn for monthly subscribers than for annual subscribers. If the percentage of overall subscribers that are monthly subscribers increases, an increasing part of our revenue would become dependent on monthly renewals, and we would likely have greater churn. A shift in mix between annual and monthly subscriptions to more monthly subscriptions as our subscriber base broadened has resulted in higher revenue per subscriber over the last several periods. This trend may not continue and may result in increased churn. We continually evaluate the types of subscriptions that are most appropriate for us and our subscribers. As we make these evaluations, we may more aggressively market subscriptions that are shorter than our annual subscriptions. Any material change in our mix of subscription duration could have a significant impact on our revenue and churn. Challenges in acquiring historical content and making it available online could adversely affect our ability to retain and expand our subscriber base, and therefore adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to retain and expand our subscriber base, both domestically and internationally, we must continue to expend significant resources to acquire significant amounts of additional historical content, digitize it and make it available to our subscribers online. We face legal, logistical and cultural challenges in acquiring new historical content. Relevant governmental records may be widely dispersed and held at a national, state or local level. 12 Table of Contents Religious and private records are even more widely dispersed. These problems often pose particular challenges in acquiring content internationally. For example, content in Germany is highly dispersed, and legislation in France is particularly stringent. Desirable content may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, due to competition for a particular collection, privacy concerns relative to information contained in a given collection or our lack of negotiating leverage with a certain content provider. For example, some of our most popular databases include so-called “vital records” content — namely, birth, marriage and death records made available by certain governmental agencies. To help prevent identity theft, or even terrorist activities, governments may attempt to restrict the release of all or substantial portions of their vital records content, and particularly birth records, to third parties. If these efforts are successful, it may limit or altogether prevent us from acquiring these types of vital record content or continuing to make them available online. In many cases, we will be the first commercial entity that may have approached the keeper of the records, often a governmental body. In some cases, we have to lobby for legislation to be changed to enable government or other bodies to grant us access to records. While we own most of the images in our database, we generally do not own the underlying historical documents. If owners of content have sold or licensed it for digitization purposes on an exclusive basis to a third party, we would not be able to acquire this content. The owners of such historical records generally can allow one or more parties to digitize those records. If owners of content have sold or licensed the rights to digitize that content, even on a non-exclusive basis, they often elect not to sell or license it for digitization purposes to any other person. Therefore, if one of our competitors acquires rights to digitize a set of content, even on a non-exclusive basis, we may be unable to acquire rights to digitize that content. In some cases, acquisition of content involves competitive bidding, and we have in the past and may in the future choose not to bid or may not successfully bid to acquire content rights. In addition, a number of governmental bodies and other organizations are interested in making historical content available for free and owners of historical records may license or sell their records to such governmental bodies and organizations in addition to or instead of licensing or selling their content to us. Our inability to offer vital records or other valuable content as part of our family history research databases or the widespread availability of such content elsewhere at lower cost or for free could result in our subscription services becoming less valuable to consumers, which could have an adverse impact on our number of subscribers or subscriber churn, and therefore on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend in part upon third party licenses for some of our historical content, and a loss of those licenses, or disputes regarding royalties under these licenses, could adversely affect our ability to retain and expand our subscriber base, and therefore adversely affect our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. Though we own most of the images in our databases, in some cases on a non-exclusive basis, we acquire a portion of our content pursuant to ongoing license agreements. Some of these agreements have finite terms and we may not be able to renew the agreements on terms that are advantageous to us or at all. For example, we license a significant amount of our United Kingdom content from the United Kingdom National Archives under several license agreements that generally have ten year terms, with varying automatic extension periods. These agreements with the United Kingdom National Archive expire from 2012 to 2019. The agreements are generally terminable by either party for breach by the other party and by the United Kingdom National Archives upon our insolvency or bankruptcy. Some of these agreements permit the United Kingdom National Archives to terminate these licenses if we undergo a change of control. If a current or future license for a significant content collection were to be terminated, we may not be able to obtain a new license on terms advantageous to us or at all and we could be required to remove the relevant content from our Web sites, either immediately or after some period of time. If a content provider were to license or sell us content in violation of that content provider’s agreements with other parties, we could be required to remove that content from our Web sites. If we were required to remove a material amount of content from our Web sites, as a result of the termination of one or more licenses or otherwise, it could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Some of these license agreements restrict the manner in which we use the applicable content, which could limit our ability to leverage that content for new uses as we expand our business. We pay royalties under some of these license agreements, and the other party to those royalty-bearing agreements may have a right to audit the calculation of our royalty payments. If there were to be a disagreement regarding the calculation of royalty 13 Table of Contents payments, we could be required to make additional payments under those agreements. We also have indemnification obligations under many of these agreements. We could experience claims in the future which, if material, could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Digitizing and indexing new content can take a significant amount of time and expense, and can expose us to risks associated with the loss or damage of historical documents. Our inability to maintain or acquire content or make new content available online in a timely and cost-effective manner, or liability for loss of historical documents, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Digitizing and indexing new historical content can take a significant amount of time and expense and we generally incur the expenses related to such content significantly in advance of the time we can make it available to our subscribers. We have invested approximately $85 million in content to date and expect to continue to spend significant resources on content. Increases in the cost or time required to digitize and index new content could harm our financial results. In 2009, two transcription vendors performed substantially all of our data transcription as measured by cost. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our transcription vendors. If we were to replace one of these transcription vendors for any reason, we would be required to provide extensive training to the new vendor, which could delay our ability to make our new content available to our subscribers, and our relationships with the new transcription vendors may be on financial or other terms less favorable to us than our existing arrangements. Our inability to maintain or acquire content or to make new content available online in a timely and cost-effective manner would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we acquire content that ultimately generates only minimal subscriber interest, the cost of acquiring and processing that content may exceed the incremental revenues produced by the content, which would adversely affect our profitability. For example, we took an impairment charge with respect to content acquired for our China-focused Web site after we shifted our strategy for that market. While we are digitizing content, we may be in possession of valuable and irreplaceable original historical documents. While we maintain insurance with respect to such documents, any loss or damage to such documents, while in our possession, could cause us significant expense and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and the potential willingness of content owners to sell, license or lend their content to us. We face competition from a number of different sources, and our failure to compete effectively with current and future competitors could adversely affect our ability to retain and expand our subscriber base, and therefore adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. We face competition in our business from a variety of online and offline organizations, some of which provide genealogical records free of charge. We expect competition to increase in the future. We generally compete on the basis of content, price, technology, ease of use, brand recognition, breadth of products, service and support, and the number of network users with whom other users can collaborate. Ancestry.com and our similar international Web sites face competition from: • FamilySearch, and its Web site FamilySearch.org, a genealogy organization that is part of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. FamilySearch has an extensive collection of paper and microfilm records (more than 2.3 million rolls of microfilm and 180,000 sets of microfiche). FamilySearch has digitized a large quantity of these records and has published them online at FamilySearch.org, where it makes them available to the public for free and through over 4,500 family history centers located throughout the world. FamilySearch is a well funded organization and has stated its intention to undertake a massive digitization project to bring most of its collection online over the next few years. • Commercial entities, including online genealogical research services, library content distributors, search engines and portals, retailers of books and software related to genealogical research and family tree creation and family history oriented social networking Web sites. • Non-profit entities and organizations, genealogical societies, governments and agencies that may make vital statistics or other records available to the public for free. 14 Table of Contents We expect our competition to grow, and our competitors may include other Internet-based and offline businesses, governments and other entities. Our current and future competitors may have greater resources, more well-established brand recognition or more sophisticated technologies, such as search algorithms, than we do or may more easily obtain relevant records in international markets. Additionally, our current and future competitors may offer new categories of content, products or services before us, or at lower prices, which may give them a competitive advantage in attracting subscribers. Our current and future competitors may make historical records available online at no cost or on an advertising-supported basis rather than a subscription basis. Our future competitors and their products and services may be superior to any of our current competition. There has recently been some consolidation in our industry, and such consolidation could also increase competition in the future, including competition with respect to acquisition of content, exclusivity of content or pricing. To compete effectively, we may need to expend significant resources on content acquisition, technology or marketing and advertising. We currently plan to distinguish ourselves from our competitors on the basis of access to content, technological leadership and the depth of our subscriber community. These efforts may be expensive and could reduce our margins, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competitive pricing pressures could cause us to fail to retain existing or attract new subscribers and harm our revenues and results of operations. Demand for our products and services is sensitive to price. Many external factors, including our marketing, content acquisition and technology costs and our current and future competitors’ pricing and marketing strategies, can significantly affect our pricing strategies, particularly in markets outside the United States. Some of our competitors provide genealogical records free of charge. If we fail to meet our subscribers’ pricing expectations, we could fail to retain existing or attract new subscribers, either of which would harm our business and results of operations. Changes in our pricing strategies could have a significant impact on our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth could strain our personnel, technology and infrastructure resources, and if we are unable to implement appropriate controls and procedures to manage our growth, we may not be able to successfully implement our business plan. Our growth in operations has placed a significant strain on our management, administrative, technological, operational and financial infrastructure. Anticipated future growth, including growth related to the broadening of our product and service offerings and our expansion into new geographic areas, will continue to place similar strains on our personnel, technology and infrastructure. A sudden increase in our number of registered users could strain our capacity and result in Web site performance issues. Our success will depend in part upon the management ability of our officers with respect to growth opportunities. To manage the expected growth of our operations, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial, technological and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. Additional capital investments will increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by offsetting expense reductions in the short term. If we fail to successfully manage our growth, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any significant disruption in service on our Web sites or in our computer systems, which are currently hosted primarily by a single third-party, could damage our reputation and result in a loss of subscribers, which would harm our business and operating results. Registered users access our service through our Web sites, where our family history research databases are located, and our internal billing software and operations are integrated with our product and service offerings. Our brand, reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our subscribers depends upon the reliable performance of our Web sites, network infrastructure, content delivery processes and payment systems. We have experienced interruptions in these systems in the past, including server failures that temporarily slowed down our Web sites’ performance and users’ access to content, or made our Web sites inaccessible, and we may experience interruptions in the future. Interruptions in these systems, whether due to system failures, computer viruses or physical or 15 Table of Contents electronic break-ins, could affect the security or availability of our Web sites and prevent our registered users from accessing our data and using our products and services. Problems with the reliability or security of our systems may require disclosure to our lenders and could harm our reputation, and damage to our reputation and the cost of remedying these problems could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Substantially all of our communications, network and computer hardware used to operate our Web sites are co-located in a facility in Utah. We do not own or control the operation of this facility. We have established a disaster recovery facility located at a third-party facility in Denver, Colorado. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, acts of war, electronic and physical break-ins, computer viruses, earthquakes and similar events. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events could result in damage to our systems and hardware or could cause them to fail completely, and our insurance may not cover such events or may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Our systems are not completely redundant, so a failure of our system at one site could result in reduced functionality for our registered users, and a total failure of our systems at both sites could cause our Web sites to be inaccessible by our registered users. Problems faced by our third-party web hosting provider, with the telecommunications network providers with whom it contracts or with the systems by which it allocates capacity among its customers, including us, could adversely affect the experience of our subscribers. Our third-party web hosting provider could decide to close its facilities without adequate notice. In addition, any financial difficulties, such as bankruptcy reorganization, faced by our third-party web hosting provider or any of the service providers with whom it contracts may have negative effects on our business, the nature and extent of which are difficult to predict. Additionally, if our third-party web hosting provider is unable to keep up with our growing needs for capacity, this could have an adverse effect on our business. Any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our services could harm our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results depend on numerous factors and may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which could make them difficult to predict. Our quarterly operating results are tied to certain financial and operational metrics that have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. As a result, you should not rely upon our past quarterly operating results as indicators of future performance. Our operating results depend on numerous factors, many of which are outside of our control. In addition to the other risks described in this “Risk Factors” section, the following risks could cause our operating results to fluctuate: • our ability to retain existing subscribers and attract new subscribers; • the mix of annual and monthly subscribers at any given time and the mix of packages to which they subscribe to; • timing and amount of costs of new and existing marketing and advertising efforts; • timing and amount of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure, including content acquisition and international expansion costs; • the cost and timing of the development and introduction of new product and service offerings by us or our competitors; • downward pressure on the pricing of our subscriptions; • system failures, security breaches or Web site downtime; • fluctuations in the usage of our Web sites; and • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. For these or other reasons, the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance and our revenue and operating results in future quarters may differ materially from the expectations of management or investors. 16 Table of Contents We require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness, which reduces the cash available to finance our organic growth and strategic acquisitions, alliances and collaborations. If we fail to grow as a result of limitations on available cash, it could harm our financial condition and stock price. We have a significant amount of indebtedness, as described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our indebtedness could: • make us more vulnerable to unfavorable economic conditions; • make it more difficult to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; • require us to dedicate or reserve a large portion of our cash flow from operations for making payments on our indebtedness, which would prevent us from using it for other purposes; • make us susceptible to fluctuations in market interest rates that affect the cost of our borrowings to the extent that our variable rate debt is not covered by interest rate derivative agreements; and • make it more difficult to pursue strategic acquisitions, alliances and collaborations. Our existing credit facility contains a number of financial and operating covenants which could limit our flexibility in operating our business. For example, our credit facility limits our capital expenditures, which limits the amount we can spend on content acquisition, and it limits the amount we can pay when acquiring companies. These restrictions and covenants, among other things, limit our ability to: incur additional indebtedness; make investments; pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; grant liens on our assets; sell assets; enter into a new or different line of business; enter into transactions with our affiliates; acquire, merge or consolidate with other entities or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; and enter into sale and leaseback transactions. Our failure to comply with any covenant could result in a default under the credit facility. Our ability to service our indebtedness and comply with the covenants will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors. Some of these factors are beyond our control. We believe that, based upon current levels of operations, we will be able to comply with the covenants in our credit facility and meet our debt service obligations when due. Significant assumptions underlie this belief including, among other things, that we will continue to be successful in implementing our business strategy and that there will be no material adverse developments in our business, liquidity or capital requirements. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness and to meet our other obligations and commitments, we might be required to refinance our debt or to dispose of assets to obtain funds for such purpose. We cannot assure you that refinancing or asset dispositions could be effected on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, if at all, or would be permitted by the terms of our credit facility. See Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements found in this Annual Report for more information about our credit facility. Our obligations under the existing credit facility are secured by collateral, which includes substantially all of our assets, including our intellectual property. If we are not able to satisfy our obligations under the credit facility, the creditors could exercise their rights under the credit facility, which include taking control of the collateral, including our intellectual property, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may need additional capital, and we cannot be certain that additional financing will be available. If we fail to obtain additional financing if needed, it could harm our growth and our ability to respond to business challenges. We have funded our operations and capital expenditures primarily from cash flow from operations during the last five years. However, in connection with the Spectrum investment, we incurred $140 million of debt. Although we currently anticipate that our available funds and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for at least the next 12 months, we may require additional financing in the future. Our ability to obtain financing will depend, among other things, on our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. Additional financing may not be available to us on 17 Table of Contents favorable terms, or at all, when required. The ongoing financial stress affecting the banking system and financial markets and the going concern threats to financial institutions could make it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing if we should require it. CIT Group Inc., the parent company of CIT Lending Services Corporation, or CIT, one of the lenders in the lending syndicate for the revolving portion of our credit facility, recently reorganized under Chapter 11 of United States Bankruptcy Code during 2009, according to public filings. If CIT or any other of the financial institutions that are in the syndicate for the revolving portion of our credit facility were to suffer further financial difficulties or enter bankruptcy, it could affect our ability to draw down on that facility. If sufficient funds are not available from our credit facility, we may seek to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, although we cannot be certain that we would be able to issue sufficient amounts at adequate prices to satisfy our needs. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to service our outstanding indebtedness, to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. If our marketing and advertising efforts fail to generate additional revenues on a cost-effective basis, or if we are unable to manage our marketing and advertising expenses, it could harm our results of operations and growth. Our future growth and profitability, as well as the maintenance and enhancement of our brands, will depend in large part on the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing and advertising expenditures. We use a diverse mix of online and offline performance-based and fixed-cost marketing and advertising programs to promote our products and services and we periodically adjust our mix of marketing and advertising programs. We have recently experienced price increases in some of our marketing and advertising channels. Significant increases in the pricing of one or more of our marketing and advertising channels would increase our marketing and advertising expense or cause us to choose less expensive but less effective marketing and advertising channels. As we implement new marketing and advertising strategies and phase out older strategies, we may need to expand into marketing and advertising channels with significantly higher costs than our current channels, which could adversely affect our profitability. Further, we may over time become disproportionately reliant on one channel or partner, which would limit our marketing and advertising flexibility and could increase our operating expenses. We may incur marketing and advertising expenses significantly in advance of the time we anticipate recognizing revenue associated with such expenses, and our marketing and advertising expenditures may not result in increased revenue or generate sufficient levels of brand awareness. For example, we have purchased product integration in the planned television show “Who Do You Think You Are?” in the United States, but we may only at a later date, or never, experience an increase in revenue or brand awareness as a result of such expenditures. If we are unable to maintain our marketing and advertising channels on cost-effective terms or replace existing marketing and advertising channels with similarly effective channels, our marketing and advertising expenses could increase substantially, our subscriber levels could be affected adversely, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. In addition, our expanded marketing efforts may yield fewer new subscriptions per marketing and advertising dollar than our strategies to date. We may decide to expand our international marketing and advertising efforts, which will lead to a significant increase in our marketing and advertising expenses. Any of these additional expenses may not result in sufficient customer growth to offset cost, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict what impact, if any, the television show “Who Do You Think You Are?” will have on our business. We have purchased product integration in the planned television show “Who Do You Think You Are?” in the United States, which is currently expected to air in March 2010. In addition, PBS is airing a television series related to family history and genealogy. If either of these series, or their combined effects cause a spike in interest in our core business that results in a greater number of subscribers for a shorter duration, this would increase our churn. Our investment in “Who Do You Think You Are?” may also cause our subscriber acquisition costs to increase. In addition, if these shows fail to provide the benefits that investors and analysts may expect, it could have a negative effect on our stock price. 18 Table of Contents If we are unable to improve market recognition of and loyalty to our brands, or if our reputation were to be harmed, we could lose subscribers or fail to increase the number of subscribers, which could harm our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our Ancestry.com and other brands is critical to our success. We believe that the importance of brand recognition and loyalty will only increase in light of increasing competition in our markets. We plan to continue to promote our brands, both domestically and internationally, but there is no guarantee that our selected strategies will increase the favorable recognition of our brands. Some of our existing and potential competitors, including search engines, media companies and government and religious institutions have well-established brands with greater brand recognition than we have. Additionally, from time to time, our subscribers express dissatisfaction with our service, including, among other things, dissatisfaction with our auto-renewal and other billing policies, our handling of personal data and the way our services operate. To the extent that dissatisfaction with our service is widespread or not adequately addressed, our brand may be adversely impacted. If our efforts to promote and maintain our brand are not successful, our operating results and our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected. In addition, even if our brand recognition and loyalty increases, this may not result in increased use of our products and services or higher revenues. Many of our subscribers are passionate about family history research, and many of these subscribers participate in blogs on this topic both on our Web sites and elsewhere. If actions we take or changes we make to our products upset these subscribers, their blogging could negatively affect our brand and reputation. Online family history research is a relatively new industry and our operational history in the online family history research industry is also relatively limited. Consequently, it is difficult to predict the ultimate size of the industry and the acceptance by the market of our products and services. Our business strategy and projections rely on a number of assumptions, some or all of which may be incorrect. For example, we believe that consumers will be willing to pay for subscriptions to our online family history resources, notwithstanding the fact that some of our current and future competitors provide such resources free of charge. We cannot accurately predict whether our products and services will achieve significant acceptance by potential users in significantly larger numbers than at present. You should therefore not rely on our historic growth rates as an indication of future growth. Our business could be adversely affected if our subscribers are not satisfied with our products and services. If we lose subscribers or fail to increase the number of subscribers due to dissatisfaction with our products and services, it could harm our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends on our ability to satisfy our subscribers. Our subscribers’ satisfaction may be negatively impacted by factors that are actual or perceived by them, such as limitations in our technologies, changes in our products and services, interruptions or slowness in online capacity of our Web sites, privacy and data security concerns, speed of search of our online content and relevance of search results, as well as perceived ease of search, and our automatic subscription renewal by credit card policy, including any perceptions of credit card fraud. If we do not handle subscriber complaints effectively, our brand and reputation may suffer, we may lose our subscribers’ confidence, and they may choose not to renew their subscriptions. Complaints or negative publicity about our products, services or billing practices could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our promotional offerings and our introduction of new services may have unintended effects on the demand for our services, which could result in diminished revenue visibility. Many of our promotional offerings involve temporary free access to our data. By granting temporary free access to many of our records, and permanent free access to a smaller set of our records, we may provide sufficient access to some registered users who are not subscribers to satisfy their family history needs, and may therefore fail to generate additional revenues as intended. Additionally, alternative subscriptions with terms of less than one year, such as monthly subscriptions and pay-per-view offerings, may result in fewer annual subscriptions from both new and existing subscribers, which may result in diminished revenue visibility. If any of these services or offerings has the effect of reducing our long-term subscriber base or total number of subscriptions, our revenues may decrease over time and our business may suffer. 19 Table of Contents We face many risks associated with our plans to continue to expand our international offerings and marketing and advertising efforts, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to our United States and United Kingdom Web sites, since 2006, we have launched Web sites directed at Australia, Canada, Germany, France, Italy, Sweden and China and launched an initial version of our global Mundia.com Web site in the third quarter of 2009. In 2009, approximately 34% of subscribers to our Ancestry.com Web sites, and approximately 25% of our revenues from subscribers, were from locations outside the United States. We anticipate that our continuing international expansion will entail the marketing and advertising of our products, services and brands, and the development of localized Web sites. We may not succeed in these efforts and achieve our subscriber acquisition or other goals. For some international markets, customer preferences and buying behaviors may be different, and we may use business models that are different from our traditional subscription model that provides company-acquired content to subscribers. Our revenues from new foreign markets may not exceed the costs of establishing, marketing and maintaining our international offerings, and therefore may not be profitable on a sustained basis, if at all. We will be subject to risks of doing business internationally, including the following: • difficulties in developing and marketing our offerings and brands as a result of distance, language and cultural differences; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • more stringent consumer and data protection laws; • local socio-economic and political conditions; • technical difficulties and costs associated with the localization of our service offerings; • strong local competitors; • lack of experience in certain geographical markets; • different and conflicting legal and regulatory regimes; • changes in governmental regulations; • different and conflicting intellectual property laws; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and • risk of business or user fraud. One or more of these factors could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to continually enhance our products and services and adapt them to technological changes and subscriber needs, we may not remain competitive and our business may fail to grow or decline. Our business is rapidly changing. To remain competitive, we must continue to provide relevant content and enhance and improve the functionality and features of our products and services. If competitors introduce new solutions embodying new technologies, our existing products and services may become obsolete. Our future success will depend, among other things, on our ability to: • anticipate demand for new products and services; • enhance our existing solutions; and • respond to technological advances on a cost-effective and timely basis. Developing the technologies in our products entails significant technical and business risks. We may use new technologies ineffectively, or we may fail to adapt our products and services to the demands of our subscribers. If we face material delays in introducing new or enhanced solutions, our subscribers may forego the use of our solutions in favor of those of our competitors. 20 Table of Contents Undetected product or service errors or defects could result in the loss of revenues, delayed market acceptance of our products or services or claims against us. We offer a variety of Internet-based services and a software product, Family Tree Maker, all of which are complex and frequently upgraded. Our Internet-based services and software product may contain undetected errors, defects, failures or viruses, especially when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Despite product testing, our products, or third party products that we incorporate into ours, may contain undetected errors, defects or viruses that could, among other things: • require us to make extensive changes to our subscription services or software product, which would increase our expenses; • expose us to claims for damages; • require us to incur additional technical support costs; • cause a negative registered user reaction that could reduce future sales; • generate negative publicity regarding us and our subscription services and software product; or • result in subscribers delaying their subscription or software purchase or electing not to renew their subscriptions. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Privacy concerns could require us to incur significant expense and modify our operations in a manner that could result in restrictions and prohibitions on our use of certain information, and therefore harm our business. As part of our business, we make biographical and historical data available through our Web sites, we use registered users’ personal data for internal purposes and we host Web sites and message boards, among other things, that contain content supplied by third parties. In addition, in connection with our Ancestry.com DNA product, we obtain biological DNA samples used for genetic testing. For privacy or security reasons, privacy groups, governmental agencies and individuals may seek to restrict or prevent our use or publication of certain biological or historical information pertaining to individuals, particularly living persons. We will also face additional privacy issues as we expand into other international markets, as many nations have privacy protections more stringent than those in the United States. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenses to comply with privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations. Increased domestic or international regulation of data utilization and distribution practices, including self-regulation, could require us to modify our operations and incur significant expense, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our possession and use of personal information presents risks and expenses that could harm our business. Unauthorized disclosure or manipulation of such data, whether through breach of our network security or otherwise, could expose us to costly litigation and damage our reputation. Maintaining our network security is of critical importance because our online systems store confidential registered user, employee and other sensitive data, such as names, addresses, credit card numbers and other personal information. In particular, a substantial majority of our subscribers use credit and debit cards to purchase our products and services. If we or our processing vendors were to have problems with our billing software, it could have an adverse effect on our subscriber satisfaction and could cause one or more of the major credit card companies to disallow our continued use of their payment services. In addition, if our billing software fails to work properly and, as a result, we do not automatically charge our subscribers’ credit cards on a timely basis or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, our online systems store the content that our registered users upload onto our Web sites, such as family records and photos. This content is often personally meaningful, and our registered users may rely on our 21 Table of Contents online system to store digital copies of such content. If we were to lose such content, if our users’ private content were to be publicly available or if third parties were able to access and manipulate such content, we may face liability and harm to our brand and reputation. We and our vendors use commercially available encryption technology to transmit personal information when taking orders. We use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information, including registered users’ uploaded content. However, third parties may be able to circumvent these security and business measures by developing and deploying viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that are designed to attack or attempt to infiltrate our systems and networks. In addition, employee error, malfeasance or other errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of registered user or employee privacy. If third parties improperly obtain and use the personal information of our registered users or employees, we may be required to expend significant resources to resolve these problems. A major breach of our network security and systems could have serious negative consequences for our businesses, including possible fines, penalties and damages, reduced demand for our products and services, an unwillingness of subscribers to provide us with their credit card or payment information, an unwillingness of registered users to upload family records or photos onto our Web sites, harm to our reputation and brand and loss of our ability to accept and process subscriber credit card orders. Similarly, if a well-publicized breach of data security at any other major consumer Web site were to occur, there could be a general public loss of confidence in the use of the Internet for commercial transactions. Any of these events could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any claims related to activities of registered users and the content they upload could result in expenses that could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Our registered users often upload their own content onto our Web sites. The terms of use of such content are set forth in the terms and conditions of our Web sites and a submission agreement to which registered users must agree when they upload their content. Disputes or negative publicity about the use of such content could make members more reluctant to upload personal content or harm our reputation. We do not review or monitor content uploaded by our registered users, and could face claims arising from or liability for making any such content available on our Web sites. In addition, our collaboration tools and other features of our site allow registered users to contact each other. While registered users can choose to remain anonymous in such communications, registered users may choose to engage with one another without anonymity. If any such contact were to lead to fraud or other harm, we may face claims against us and negative publicity. Litigation to defend these claims or efforts to counter any negative publicity could be costly and any other liabilities we incur in connection with any such claims may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in credit card processing fees would increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations, and the termination of our relationship with any major credit card company would have a severe, negative impact on our ability to collect revenues from subscribers. The substantial majority of our subscribers pay for our products and services using credit cards. From time to time, the major credit card companies or the issuing banks may increase the fees that they charge for each transaction using their cards. An increase in those fees would require us to either increase the prices we charge for our products and services, or suffer a negative impact on our profitability, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our credit card fees may be increased by credit card companies if our chargeback rate or the refund rate exceeds certain minimum thresholds. If we are unable to maintain our chargeback rate at acceptable levels, our credit card fees for chargeback transactions, or for all credit card transactions, may be increased, and, if the problem significantly worsens, credit card companies may further increase our fees or terminate their relationships with us. Any increases in our credit card fees could adversely affect our results of operations, particularly if we elect not to raise our subscription rates to offset the increase. The termination of our ability to process payments on any major credit or debit card would significantly impair our ability to operate our business. 22 Table of Contents If government regulation of the Internet or other areas of our business changes or if consumer attitudes toward use of the Internet change, we may need to change the manner in which we conduct our business in a manner that is less profitable or incur greater operating expenses, which could harm our results of operations. The adoption, modification or interpretation of laws or regulations relating to the Internet or other areas of our business could adversely affect the manner in which we conduct our business or the overall popularity or growth in use of the Internet. Such laws and regulations may cover automatic subscription renewal, credit card processing procedures, sales and other procedures, tariffs, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts, consumer protection, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of services. In foreign countries, such as countries in Europe, such laws may be more restrictive than in the United States. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet. If we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses, make it more difficult to renew subscriptions automatically, make it more difficult to attract new subscribers or otherwise alter our business model. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our revenues may be adversely affected if we are required to charge sales taxes in additional jurisdictions and/or other taxes for our products and services. We collect or have imposed upon us sales or other taxes related to the products and services we sell in certain states and other jurisdictions. Additional states or one or more countries or other jurisdictions may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on us in the future. A successful assertion by any country, state or other jurisdiction in which we do business that we should be collecting sales or other taxes on the sale of our products and services could, among other things, create significant administrative burdens for us, result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage registered users from purchasing from us or otherwise substantially harm our business and results of operations. We face risk associated with currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could adversely affect our operating results. In 2009, approximately 21% of our total revenues were received, and approximately 12% of our total expenses were paid, in currencies other than the United States dollar, such as the British pound sterling, the Canadian dollar and the Australian dollar. As a result, we are at risk for exchange rate fluctuations between such foreign currencies and the United States dollar, which could affect our results of operations. We attempt to limit our exposure by paying our operating expenses incurred in foreign jurisdictions with revenues received in the applicable currency, but if we do not have enough local currency to pay all our expenses in that currency, we are exposed to currency exchange rate risk with respect to those expenses. We are also exposed to exchange rate risk with respect to our profits earned in foreign currency. Even if we were to implement hedging strategies to mitigate foreign currency risk, these strategies might not eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations and would involve costs and risks of their own, such as ongoing management time and expertise, external costs to implement the strategies and potential accounting implications. If we acquire any businesses or technologies in the future, they could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our ongoing business, dilute stockholder value or have an adverse effect on our results of operations. As part of our business strategy, we may engage in acquisitions of businesses or technologies to augment our organic or internal growth. While we have engaged in some acquisitions in the past, we do not have extensive experience with integrating and managing acquired businesses or assets. Acquisitions involve challenges and risks in negotiation, execution, valuation and integration. Moreover, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition opportunities on terms that are acceptable to us. Even if successfully negotiated, closed and integrated, certain 23 Table of Contents acquisitions may not advance our business strategy, may fall short of expected return-on-investment targets or may fail. Any future acquisition could involve numerous risks including: • potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; • difficulty integrating the operations and products of the acquired business; • use of cash to fund the acquisition or for unanticipated expenses; • limited market experience in new businesses; • exposure to unknown liabilities, including litigation against the companies we may acquire; • additional costs due to differences in culture, geographic locations and duplication of key talent; • acquisition-related accounting charges affecting our balance sheet and operations; • dilution to our current stockholders from the issuance of equity securities; and • potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company. In the event we enter into any acquisition agreements, closing of the transactions could be delayed or prevented by regulatory approval requirements, including antitrust review, or other conditions. We may not be successful in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any attempted acquisitions, and we could assume the economic risks of such failed or unsuccessful acquisitions. Our business may be significantly impacted by a change in the economy, including any resulting effect on consumer spending. Our business may be affected by changes in the economy generally, including any resulting effect on consumer spending specifically. Our products and services are discretionary purchases, and consumers may reduce their discretionary spending on our products and services during an economic downturn such as the economic downturn experienced during 2008 and 2009. Although we have not experienced a material increase in subscription cancellations or a material reduction in subscription renewals, we may yet experience such an increase or reduction in the future, especially if employment and personal income do not improve. Conversely, consumers may spend more time using the Internet during an economic downturn and may have less time for our products and services in a period of economic growth. In addition, media prices may increase in a period of economic growth, which could significantly increase our marketing and advertising expenses. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be significantly affected by changes in the economy generally. The loss of one or more of our key personnel, or our failure to attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could harm our business. We depend on the continued service and performance of our key personnel, including Timothy Sullivan, our President and Chief Executive Officer. We do not maintain key man insurance on any of our officers or key employees. We also do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our officers or key employees. In addition, much of our key technology and systems are custom-made for our business by our personnel. The loss of key personnel, including key members of our management team, as well as certain of our key marketing, sales, product development or technology personnel, could disrupt our operations and have an adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. Several of our key personnel have only recently been employed by us, and we are still in the process of assimilating and integrating these personnel into our operations. Our failure to successfully integrate these key employees into our business could adversely affect our business. In addition, to execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these employees is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. In addition, in making employment 24 Table of Contents decisions, particularly in the Internet and high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options they are to receive in connection with their employment. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States relating to the expensing of stock options may discourage us from granting the size or type of stock option awards that job candidates may require to join our company. If we fail to attract new personnel, or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. We are subject to additional regulatory compliance matters as a result of becoming a public company, which compliance includes Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and our management has limited experience managing a public company. Failure to comply with these regulatory matters could harm our business. In November 2009, we became a public company and have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. Our management team and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to new compliance initiatives and to meeting the obligations that are associated with being a public company, and we may not successfully or efficiently manage this transition. We expect rules and regulations such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will increase our legal and finance compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming than in the past. We may need to hire a number of additional employees with public accounting and disclosure experience in order to meet our ongoing obligations as a public company. Furthermore, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that our management report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010. Section 404 compliance efforts may divert internal resources and will take a significant amount of time and effort to complete. We may not be able to successfully complete the procedures and certification and attestation requirements of Section 404 by the time we will be required to do so. If we fail to do so, or if in the future our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the Nasdaq Stock Market, SEC or other regulatory authorities. Furthermore, investor perceptions of our company may suffer, and this could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. Furthermore, whether or not we comply with Section 404, any failure of our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our stated results of operations and harm our reputation. If we are unable to implement necessary procedures or changes effectively or efficiently, it could harm our operations, financial reporting or financial results and could result in an adverse opinion on internal controls from our independent auditors. If we are unable to retain enough independent directors to our board to meet the listing standards of the Nasdaq Stock Market by the deadlines set by the exchange, it could affect our continued listing on the exchange. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles applicable to us. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. In addition, the SEC has announced a multi-year plan that could ultimately lead to the use of International Financial Reporting Standards by United States issuers in their SEC filings. Any such change could have a significant effect on our reported financial results. Any expenses or liability resulting from litigation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, we may be subject to claims or litigation. Any such claims or litigation may be time-consuming and costly, divert management resources, require us to change our products and services, require us to accept returns of software products, or have other adverse effects on our business. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could require us to pay significant monetary damages. For example, we have recently received a letter from Shutterfly, Inc., alleging infringement by our MyCanvas.com Web 25 Table of Contents site. Based on our investigation to date, we believe that the identified claims either are not valid or are not currently infringed by us and we do not believe that the resolution of these claims will have a material impact on our financial condition. While MyCanvas.com revenues have represented a small percentage of our total revenue, intellectual property litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and there can be no assurance that the expenses associated with defending any litigation or the resolution of this dispute would not have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or cash flows. In addition, on September 16, 2009, we settled a claim with respect to the timeliness and accuracy of a content index we created. The settlement resulted in an expense of approximately $2.3 million in 2009. Risks Related to Intellectual Property If our intellectual property and technologies are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. Our future success and competitive position depend in part on our ability to protect our proprietary technologies and intellectual property. We rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary technologies and intellectual property. In the United States, we currently have three patents issued, and we have a number of patents pending relating to digitization, indexing, storage, correlation, search and display of content. Ancestry.com, myfamily.com and Family Tree Maker are among our registered trademarks. In addition, in the United States, we have filed various trademark applications for certain aspects of our technologies, and we have also filed trademark applications in certain foreign countries for the Ancestry and other Web site names. Many of our trademarks contain words or terms having a common usage and, as a result, may not be protectable under applicable law. Because of this concern, we have elected not to file applications with respect to certain of our trademarks, and some of our trademarks for which we have filed applications may not be protectable. We also possess intellectual property rights in aspects of our digital content, search technology, software products and digitization and indexing processes. However, our digital content is not protected by any registered copyrights or other registered intellectual property or statutory rights. Rather, our digital content is protected by user agreements that limit access to and use of our data, and by our proprietary indexing and search technology that we apply to make our digital content searchable. Compliance with use restrictions is difficult to monitor, and our proprietary rights in our digital content databases may be more difficult to enforce than other forms of intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that the steps we take will be adequate to protect our technologies and intellectual property, that our patent and trademark applications will lead to issued patents and registered trademarks, that others will not develop or patent similar or superior technologies, products or services, or that our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others. Furthermore, the intellectual property laws of other countries at which our Web sites are or may be in the future be directed may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving, both in the United States and in other countries. In addition, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and litigation may be necessary to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. Any such litigation could be very costly and could divert management attention and resources. If the protection of our technologies and intellectual property is inadequate to prevent use or appropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished and competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our subscription services and methods of operations. Any of these events would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also expect that the more successful we are, the more likely it will become that competitors will try to develop products that are similar to ours, which may infringe on our proprietary rights. It may also be more likely that competitors will claim that our products and services infringe on their proprietary rights. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights or if third parties independently develop or gain access to our or similar technologies, our business, revenue, reputation and competitive position could be harmed. 26 Table of Contents Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. Failure to protect our proprietary information could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products and harm our business. A substantial amount of our tools and technologies are protected by trade secret laws. In order to protect our proprietary technologies and processes, we rely in part on security measures, as well as confidentiality agreements with our employees, licensees, independent contractors and other advisors. These measures and agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information, including trade secrets, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. We could potentially lose future trade secret protection if any unauthorized disclosure of such information occurs. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Laws regarding trade secret rights in certain markets in which we operate may afford little or no protection to our trade secrets. The loss of trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality. In addition, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may compromise our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property rights. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our business, revenue, reputation and competitive position. Intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our Web sites and marketing and advertising activities. Trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies. Our intellectual property rights extend to our technologies, business processes and the content on our Web sites. We use intellectual property licensed from third parties in merchandising our products and marketing and advertising our services. From time to time, third parties may allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. If there is a claim against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third party intellectual property rights, and we are unable to obtain sufficient rights or develop non-infringing intellectual property or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. Many companies are devoting significant resources to obtaining patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business. There are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the Internet. We have not exhaustively searched patents relevant to our technologies and business. If we are forced to defend ourselves against intellectual property infringement claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, we may face costly litigation, diversion of technical and management personnel, limitations on our ability to use our current Web sites or inability to market or provide our products or services. As a result of any such dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, pay damages, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, cease providing certain products or services, adjust our merchandizing or marketing and advertising activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. These actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. In addition, many of our co-branding, distribution and other partnering agreements require us to indemnify our partners for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which could increase the cost to us of an adverse ruling in such an action. In addition, as a publisher of online content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement or other claims based on the nature and content of data and materials that we publish or distribute. These claims could potentially arise with respect to both company-acquired content and user-generated content. Litigation to defend these claims could be costly and any other liabilities we incur in connection with the claims may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our domain names, our reputation and brand could be affected adversely, which would adversely affect our subscriber base, and therefore adversely affect our revenues. We have registered domain names for Web site destinations that we use in our business, such as Ancestry.com, Genealogy.com and myfamily.com. However, if we are unable to maintain our rights in these domain names, our competitors could capitalize on our brand recognition by using these domain names for their own benefit. In addition, our competitors could capitalize on our brand recognition by using domain names similar to ours. Domain 27 Table of Contents names similar to ours have been registered in the United States and elsewhere, and in many countries the top-level domain names “ancestry” or “genealogy” are owned by other parties. Though we own the “ancestry.co.uk” domain name in the United Kingdom, we might not be able to, or may choose not to, acquire or maintain other country-specific versions of the “ancestry” and “genealogy” domain names. Further, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and is unclear in some jurisdictions. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring and using domain names that infringe on, are similar to, or otherwise decrease the value of, our brand or our trademarks or service marks. Protecting and enforcing our rights in our domain names and determining the rights of others may require litigation, which could result in substantial costs and divert management attention. We may not prevail if any such litigation is initiated. Risks Related to our Corporate Structure Our share price may be volatile due to fluctuations in our operating results and other factors, each of which could cause our stock price to decline. Our revenues, expenses and results of operations have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future from quarter to quarter and year to year due to the risk factors described in this section and the factors described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our key operating metrics, financial condition and operating results; • a greater than expected loss of existing subscribers; • a negative change in one or more of our key metrics; • actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate; • issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities analysts; • our announcement of actual results for a fiscal period that are higher or lower than projected or expected results or our announcement of revenue or earnings guidance that is higher or lower than expected; • fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; • share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; • sales or expected sales of additional common stock; • announcements from, or operating results of, our competitors; or • general economic and market conditions. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may cause the market price of shares of our common stock to decline. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. If an insufficient number of securities or industry analysts publish research or reports about our business, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading of our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If analysts stop covering us, or if too few analysts cover us, the trading price of our stock would likely decrease. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price will 28 Table of Contents likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline Our principal stockholder and its affiliates own a majority of our outstanding common stock, and their interests may not always coincide with the interests of the other holders of our common stock. As of December 31, 2009, Spectrum Equity Investors V, L.P. and certain of its affiliates beneficially owned in the aggregate shares representing approximately 55% of our outstanding voting power. Two persons associated with Spectrum Equity Investors V, L.P. currently serve on our board of directors. As a result, Spectrum Equity Investors V, L.P. and certain of its affiliates effectively control all matters presented to our stockholders for approval, including election and removal of our directors and change of control transactions. The interests of Spectrum Equity Investors V, L.P. and certain of its affiliates may not always coincide with the interests of the other holders of our common stock. Delaware law and our corporate charter and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. For example, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to five million shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the powers, preferences and rights of each series without stockholder approval. The ability to issue preferred stock could discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our company, or otherwise could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires that any action to be taken by stockholders must be taken at a duly called meeting of stockholders, which may only be called by our board of directors, the chairperson of our board of directors or the chief executive officer, with the concurrence of a majority of our board of directors, and may not be taken by written consent. Our amended and restated bylaws also require that any stockholder proposals or nominations for election to our board of directors meet specific advance notice requirements and procedures, which make it more difficult for our stockholders to make proposals or director nominations. In addition, we have a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which could delay the ability of stockholders to change membership of a majority of our board of directors. Furthermore, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit or restrict large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts and could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in our market price being lower than it would without these provisions. Substantial sales of our common stock by our stockholders, including sales pursuant to 10b5-1 plans, could depress our stock price regardless of our operating results. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could reduce the prevailing market prices for our common stock. On November 10, 2009 we completed our initial public offering of 7.4 million shares of common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. As of February 18, 2010, we had approximately 35.0 million additional shares of common stock outstanding along with options to purchase approximately 6.9 million common shares vested and exercisable that were subject to lock-up agreements executed in connection with our initial public offering. The lock-up agreements related to our initial public offering will expire with the opening of the securities markets on May 4, 2010, or depending on the timing of our next earnings release, announcement of an earnings release or other material event, up to 18 days thereafter. When the lock-up agreements expire, substantially all of our outstanding common stock will become eligible for sale as will common stock issuable under vested and exercisable stock options. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock, including sales pursuant 29 Table of Contents to 10b5-1 plans, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 