Item 1A. Risk Factors A wide range of factors could materially affect our performance. The following factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered. Although the risk factors described below are the ones management deems significant, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following events actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business If our efforts to retain and attract subscribers are not successful, our revenues will be adversely affected. We generate substantially all of our revenue from subscriptions to our services. We must continue to retain existing and attract new subscribers. If our efforts to satisfy our existing subscribers are not successful, we may not be able to retain them, and as a result, our revenues would be adversely affected. For example, if consumers do not perceive our services to be reliable, valuable and of high quality, if we fail to regularly introduce new and improved services, or if we introduce new services that are not favorably received by the market, we may not be able to retain existing or attract new subscribers. We rely on our marketing and advertising efforts, including television and online and offline performance-based and fixed-cost programs, to attract new subscribers and retain existing subscribers. If we are unable to effectively retain existing subscribers and attract new subscribers, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. The relative service levels, pricing and related features of competitors to our products and services are some of the factors that may adversely impact our ability to retain existing subscribers and attract new subscribers. Some of our current competitors provide genealogical records free of charge. Some governments or private organizations may make historical records available online at no cost to consumers and some commercial entities could choose to make such records available on an advertising-supported basis rather than a subscription basis. If consumers are able to satisfy their family history research needs at no or lower cost, they may not perceive value in our products and services. If our efforts to satisfy and retain our existing subscribers are not successful, we may not be able to continue to attract new subscribers through word-of-mouth referrals. Further, subscriber growth may decrease as a result of a decline in interest in family history research. Any of these factors could cause our subscriber growth rate to fall, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our recent performance may not be sustainable, which could negatively affect our stock price or financial condition and results of operations. Our revenues have grown rapidly, increasing from $150.6 million in 2006 to $300.9 million in 2010, representing a compound annual growth rate of 18.9%. We may not be able to sustain our recent growth rate in future periods and you should not rely on the revenue growth of these periods or any prior period or year as an indication of our future performance. Additionally, we expect to continue to devote substantial resources and funds to improving our technologies and product offerings and acquiring new and relevant content, and also to expanding awareness of our brand and category through marketing, such as the increased advertising we have undertaken in connection with the television program “Who Do You Think You Are?,” which may reduce our margins in the near term. If our margins or our future growth resulting from our implementation of these strategies fail to meet investor or analyst expectations, it could have a negative effect on our stock price. If our growth rate were to decline significantly or become negative, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we experience excessive rates of subscriber cancellation, or churn, our revenues and business may be harmed. We must continually add new subscribers both to replace subscribers who choose to cancel their subscriptions and to grow our business beyond our current subscriber base. Subscribers choose to cancel their subscriptions for many reasons, including a desire to reduce discretionary spending or a perception that they do not have sufficient time to use the service or otherwise do not use the service sufficiently, the service is a poor value, competitive services provide a better value or experience, or subscriber service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. Subscribers may choose to cancel their subscription at any time prior to the renewal date. When we add subscribers as rapidly as we did in 2010, the rate of subscriber cancellation, or churn, may also increase as it did beginning in the second quarter of 2010 with churn rising from 3.3% in the first quarter of 2010 to 4.3% in the second quarter of 2010. Churn for the year ended December 31, 2010 was 3.9%, up slightly from churn of 3.8% for the year ended December 31, 2009. If we are unable to attract new subscribers in numbers greater than our subscriber churn, our subscriber base will decrease and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If our subscriber churn increases, we may be required to increase the rate at which we add new subscribers in order to maintain and grow our revenues. If excessive numbers of subscribers cancel our service, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing and advertising expenses than we currently anticipate to replace these subscribers with new subscribers. A significant increase in our subscriber churn may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A change in our mix of subscription durations could have a significant impact on our revenue, churn and revenue visibility. A majority of our subscribers has annual subscriptions. At any point in time, however, the majority of new subscribers generally signs up for monthly subscriptions and may or may not choose to renew. We generally experience higher rates of churn for monthly subscribers than for annual subscribers. As of December 31, 2010, the percentage of overall subscribers that are monthly subscribers had increased by 4 percentage points from 25% at December 31, 2009 to 29% at December 31, 2010. If this trend continues, more of our revenue would become dependent on monthly renewals, and we would likely have higher churn. We continually evaluate the types of subscriptions that are most appropriate for us and our subscribers. As we make these evaluations, we may more aggressively market subscriptions that are shorter than our annual subscriptions. Any material change in our mix of subscription duration could have a significant impact on our revenue and churn. 10 Table of Contents Additionally, the largely annual commitments of our subscribers enhance our near-term visibility on our revenues, which we believe enables us to more effectively manage the growth of our business and provide working capital benefits. A shift in subscriber mix towards more monthly subscriptions may result in diminished visibility with respect to forecasting revenue, which could make it more difficult to manage our growth and effectively budget future working capital requirements. Because we recognize revenues from subscriptions to our service over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in subscriptions may not be immediately reflected in our operating results and therefore could affect our operating results in later periods. We recognize revenues from subscribers ratably over the term of their subscriptions. Given that annual subscriptions represent a majority of our subscriptions, a large portion of our revenues for each quarter reflects deferred revenue from subscriptions entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in revenues in that quarter but will negatively affect our revenues in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns or upturns in subscriptions or market acceptance of our service, or changes in subscriber churn, may not fully impact our results of operations until future periods. If our marketing and advertising efforts fail to generate additional revenues on a cost-effective basis, or if we are unable to manage our marketing and advertising expenses, it could harm our results of operations and growth. Our future growth and profitability, as well as the maintenance and enhancement of our brands, will depend in large part on the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing and advertising expenditures and the continued success of television programming related to family history. We use a diverse mix of fixed-cost and performance-based marketing and advertising programs to promote our products and services, and we periodically adjust our mix of marketing and advertising programs. We have recently experienced price increases in some of our marketing and advertising channels. Significant increases in the pricing of one or more of our marketing and advertising channels would increase our marketing and advertising expense or cause us to choose less expensive but potentially less effective marketing and advertising channels. As we implement new marketing and advertising strategies, we have expanded into television advertising, which may have significantly higher costs than other channels and which could adversely affect our profitability. Further, we may over time become disproportionately reliant on one channel or partner, such as NBC in future seasons of “Who Do You Think You Are?” which could increase our operating expenses. We have incurred and may in the future incur marketing and advertising expenses significantly in advance of the time we anticipate recognizing revenue associated with such expenses, as in the case of television programming, and our marketing and advertising expenditures may not continue to result in increased revenue or generate sufficient levels of brand awareness. If we are unable to maintain our marketing and advertising channels on cost-effective terms or replace existing marketing and advertising channels with similarly effective channels, our marketing and advertising expenses could increase substantially, our subscriber levels could be affected adversely, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. In addition, our expanded marketing efforts may increase our subscriber acquisition cost, as additional expenses may not result in sufficient customer growth to offset cost, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have begun to distribute free software applications as part of our marketing efforts to retain and attract new subscribers. If service providers involved in the distribution of our free applications were to impose fees or commissions upon us in connection with the applications, with or without our consent, we may be forced to cease distributing the applications through the service providers, incur additional expense, or have limited information about our customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict whether the television show “Who Do You Think You Are?” will continue to have an impact on our business in the future. We purchased product integration in the television show “Who Do You Think You Are?” in the United States, which originally premiered in March 2010. Although the original airing of this series, together with our increased television advertising, caused increased interest in our core business that resulted in a greater number of subscribers, we cannot guarantee that the show will have a long-term favorable effect on our net income. NBC began airing the second season of “Who Do You Think You Are?” in February 2011, and we again have purchased product integration, but we can provide no assurance that the show will not be cancelled mid-season or have the same effect on our business as the first season. NBC recently announced that they have renewed “Who Do You Think You Are?” for a third season. We have not yet reached an agreement with NBC relating to our involvement in the third season. In addition, we cannot assure you that NBC will air the third season or any future seasons of the show or, if they do, that we will participate. If we do not receive lasting benefits from “Who Do You Think You Are?,” or if the show is poorly received or cancelled, it could have a negative effect on our business and our stock price. If NBC were to air a third season of “Who Do You Think You Are?” late in 2011, and we were to participate, we would likely incur expenses earlier than anticipated, which would likely have a negative impact on our 2011 results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Because we generate substantially all of our revenue from online family history resources, particularly in the United States and United Kingdom, a decline in demand for our services or for online family history resources in general, and particularly of the United States and United Kingdom, could cause our revenue to decline. We generate substantially all of our revenue from our online family history services, and we expect that we will continue to depend upon our online family history services for substantially all of our revenue in the foreseeable future. Because we depend on our online family history services, factors such as changes in consumer preferences for these products may have a disproportionately greater impact on us than if we offered multiple services. The market for online family history resources, and for consumer services in general, is subject to rapidly changing consumer demand and trends in preferences. If consumer interest in our online family history services declines, or if consumer interest in family history in general declines, we would likely experience a significant loss of revenue and net income. Some of the potential factors that could affect interest in and demand for online family history services include: • individuals’ interest in, and their willingness to spend time and money, conducting family history research; • availability of discretionary funds; • awareness of our brand and the family history category, including through the television show “Who Do You Think You Are?”; • the appeal, reliability and performance of our services; • the price, performance and availability of competing family history products and services; • public concern regarding privacy and data security; • our ability to maintain high levels of customer satisfaction; and • the rate of growth in online commerce generally. In addition, substantially all of our revenues are from subscribers in the United States, the United Kingdom, and to a lesser extent, Canada and Australia. Consequently, a decrease of interest in and demand for online family history services, or increased competition, in these countries could have a disproportionately greater impact on us than if our geographical mix of revenue was less concentrated. Challenges in acquiring historical content and making it available online could adversely affect our ability to retain and expand our subscriber base, and therefore adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to retain and expand our subscriber base, both domestically and internationally, we must continue to expend significant resources to acquire significant amounts of additional historical content, digitize it and make it available to our subscribers online. We face legal, logistical, cultural and commercial challenges in acquiring new content. Relevant governmental records may be widely dispersed and held at a national, state or local level. Religious and private records are even more widely dispersed. These problems often pose particular challenges in acquiring content internationally. Desirable content may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, due to competition for a particular collection, privacy concerns relative to information contained in a given collection or our lack of negotiating leverage with a certain content provider. For example, some of our most popular databases include “vital records” content — namely, historical birth, marriage and death records — made available by certain governmental agencies. To help prevent identity theft, or even terrorist activities, governments may attempt to restrict the release of all or substantial portions of their vital records content, and particularly birth records, to third parties. If these efforts are successful, it may limit or altogether prevent us from acquiring these types of vital record content or continuing to make them available online. In some cases, we have to lobby for legislation to be changed or otherwise work to surmount administrative or other bureaucratic hurdles to enable government or other bodies to grant us access to records. While we own or license most of the images in our database, we generally do not own the underlying historical documents. If owners of content have sold or licensed the rights to digitize that content, even on a non-exclusive basis, they may elect not to sell or license it for digitization purposes to any other person. Therefore, if one of our competitors acquires rights to digitize a set of content, even on a non-exclusive basis, we may be unable to acquire rights to digitize that content. Conversely, the owners of historical records may allow more than one party to digitize those records and our competitors may digitize and make available the same content that we offer. In some cases, acquisition of content involves competitive bidding, and we may choose not to bid or may not successfully bid to acquire content rights. In addition, a number of governmental bodies and other organizations are interested in making historical content available for free and owners of historical records may license or sell their records to such governmental bodies and organizations in addition to or instead of licensing or selling their content to us. Our inability to offer vital records or other valuable content as part of our family history research databases or the widespread availability of such content elsewhere at lower cost or for free could result in our subscription services becoming less valuable to consumers, which could have an adverse impact on our number of subscribers or subscriber churn, and therefore on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We depend in part upon third party licenses for some of our historical content, and a loss of these licenses, or disputes regarding royalties under these licenses, could adversely affect our ability to retain and expand our subscriber base, and therefore adversely affect our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. We acquire a portion of our content pursuant to ongoing license agreements. Some of these agreements have finite terms and we may not be able to renew the agreements on terms that are advantageous to us or at all. For example, we license a significant amount of our United Kingdom content from the United Kingdom National Archives under several license agreements that generally have ten year terms, with varying automatic extension periods. These agreements with the United Kingdom National Archives generally have initial expiration dates from 2012 to 2026. The agreements are generally terminable by either party for breach by the other party and by the United Kingdom National Archives upon our insolvency or bankruptcy. Some of these agreements permit the United Kingdom National Archives to terminate these licenses if we undergo a change of control. If a current or future license for a significant content collection were to be terminated, we may not be able to obtain a new license on terms advantageous to us or at all and we could be required to immediately remove the relevant content from our Web sites, either immediately or after some period of time. If a content provider were to license or sell us content in violation of that content provider’s agreements with other parties, we could be required to remove that content from our Web sites. If we were required to remove a material amount of content from our Web sites, as a result of the termination of one or more licenses or otherwise, it could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Some of these license agreements restrict the manner in which we use the applicable content, which could limit our ability to leverage that content for new uses as we expand our business. We pay royalties under some of these license agreements, and the other party to those royalty-bearing agreements may have a right to audit the calculation of our royalty payments. If there were to be a disagreement regarding the calculation of royalty payments, we could be required to make additional payments under those agreements. We also have indemnification obligations under many of these agreements. We could experience claims in the future which, if material, could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Digitizing and indexing new content can take a significant amount of time and expense, and can expose us to risks associated with the loss or damage of historical documents. Our inability to maintain or acquire content or make new content available online in a timely and cost-effective manner, or liability for loss of historical documents, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Digitizing and indexing new historical content can take a significant amount of time and expense and we generally incur the expenses related to such content significantly in advance of the time we can make it available to our subscribers. We have invested approximately $110 million in content as of December 31, 2010, including content acquired through business acquisitions, and we expect to continue to spend significant resources on content. Increases in the cost or time required to digitize and index new content could harm our financial results. Currently, two transcription vendors perform substantially all of our data transcription as measured by cost. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our transcription vendors. If we were to replace one of these transcription vendors for any reason, we would be required to provide extensive training to the new vendor, which could delay our ability to make our new content available to our subscribers, and our relationships with the new transcription vendors may be on financial or other terms less favorable to us than our existing arrangements. Our inability to maintain or acquire content or to make new content available online in a timely and cost-effective manner would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we are digitizing content, we may be in possession of valuable and irreplaceable original historical documents. While we maintain insurance with respect to such documents, any loss or damage to such documents, while in our possession, could cause us significant expense and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and the potential willingness of content owners to sell, license or lend their content to us. We face competition from a number of different sources, and our failure to compete effectively could adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. We face competition in our business from a variety of organizations, some of which provide genealogical records free of charge. We expect competition to increase in the future. Many external factors, including the cost of marketing, content acquisition and technology and our current and future competitors’ pricing and marketing strategies, can significantly affect our competitive strategies, including pricing. Some of our competitors provide genealogical records free of charge. If we fail to meet our subscribers’ expectations, we could fail to retain existing or attract new subscribers, either of which could harm our business and results of operations. Ancestry.com and our similar international Web sites face competition from: • FamilySearch, and its Web site FamilySearch.org, a genealogy organization that is part of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. FamilySearch has an extensive collection of paper and microfilm records. FamilySearch has digitized a large quantity of these records and has published them online at FamilySearch.org, where it makes them available to the public for free and through thousands of family history centers located throughout the world. FamilySearch is a well funded organization and is undertaking a large-scale digitization project to make its collection available online. FamilySearch could partner with commercial entities to broaden the distribution of its records. • Commercial entities, including online genealogical research services, library content distributors, search engines and portals, retailers of books and software related to genealogical research and family tree creation and family history oriented social networking Web sites. 13 Table of Contents • Non-profit entities and organizations, genealogical societies, governments and agencies that may make vital statistics or other records available to the public for free or that partner with commercial entities to make their records widely-available. For example, Yad Vashem, a Jerusalem-based archive devoted to the documentation, research, education and commemoration of the Holocaust, has recently partnered with Google to facilitate free online access to the world’s largest historical collection on the Holocaust. We expect our competition to grow, both through industry consolidation and the emergence of new participants. Our future competitors may include other Internet-based and offline businesses, governments and other entities. The market for Internet-based services evolves at a very rapid pace and our competitors may offer products and services that are superior to any of our products and services. In addition, Internet business models are constantly changing. The online family history market could move to an advertising-supported model to the detriment of our subscription-based model. Our competitors may have greater resources, more well-established brand recognition or more sophisticated technologies, such as search algorithms, than we do. Additionally, our competitors may more easily obtain relevant records in domestic and international markets or offer new categories of content, products or services before us, or at lower prices, which may give them a competitive advantage in attracting subscribers. To compete effectively, we may need to expend significant resources on content acquisition, technology or marketing and advertising, which could reduce our margins and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not compete effectively, our ability to retain and expand our subscriber base, and our revenues, results of operations and financial condition, could be adversely affected. Our failure to attract, integrate and retain highly qualified personnel in the future could harm our business. To execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these employees is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. In addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet and high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options or other stock-based awards they may receive in connection with their employment. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States relating to the expensing of stock options may discourage us from granting the size or type of stock option awards that job candidates may require to join our company. If our stock price declines, we may face increased difficulty attracting and retaining personnel through the use of stock options or other stock-based awards. If we fail to attract new personnel, or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be adversely affected. Our growth could strain our personnel, technology and infrastructure resources, and if we are unable to implement appropriate controls and procedures to manage our growth, and hire and integrate appropriate personnel, we may not be able to successfully implement our business plan. Our growth in operations has placed a significant strain on our management, administrative, technological, operational and financial infrastructure. Anticipated future growth, including growth related to the broadening of our product and service offerings, will continue to place similar strains on our personnel, technology and infrastructure. Our full-time employee headcount increased 20% in 2010, and we plan to hire additional personnel in the near future. Particularly when adding staff quickly, we may not make optimal hiring decisions or may not integrate personnel effectively. A sudden increase in the number of our registered users could strain our capacity and result in Web site performance issues. Our success will depend in part upon the management ability of our officers with respect to growth opportunities. To manage the expected growth of our operations, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial, technological and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. Additional personnel and capital investments will increase our cost base, which, if we fall short of anticipated revenue growth, will make it more difficult to decrease expenses in the short term. If we fail to successfully manage our growth, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any significant disruption in service on our Web sites or in our computer systems, which are currently hosted primarily by a single third-party, could damage our reputation and result in a loss of subscribers, which would harm our business and operating results. Subscribers access our service through our Web sites, where our family history research databases are located, and our internal billing software and operations are integrated with our product and service offerings. Our brand, reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our subscribers depend upon the reliable performance of our Web sites, network infrastructure, content delivery processes and payment systems. We have experienced interruptions in these systems in the past, including server failures that temporarily slowed down our Web sites’ performance and users’ access to content, or made our Web sites inaccessible, and we may experience interruptions in the future. Interruptions in these systems, whether due to system failures, computer viruses or physical or electronic break-ins, could affect the security or availability of our Web sites and prevent our subscribers from accessing our data and using our products and services. Problems with the reliability or security of our systems may harm our reputation and require disclosure to our lenders, and the cost of remedying these problems could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Substantially all of our communications, network and computer hardware used to operate our Web sites are co-located in a facility in Salt Lake City, Utah. We do not own or control the operation of this facility. We have established a disaster recovery facility located at a third-party facility in Denver, Colorado. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, acts of war, electronic and physical break-ins, computer viruses, earthquakes and similar events. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events could result in damage to our systems and hardware or could cause them to fail completely, and our insurance may not cover such events or may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Our systems are not completely redundant, so a failure of our system at our primary site could result in reduced functionality for our subscribers, and a total failure of our systems at both sites could cause our Web sites to be inaccessible by our subscribers. Problems faced by our third-party Web hosting provider, with the telecommunications network providers with whom it contracts or with the systems by which it allocates capacity among its customers, including us, could adversely affect the experience of our subscribers. Our third-party Web hosting provider could decide to close its facilities without adequate notice. In addition, any financial difficulties, such as bankruptcy reorganization, faced by our third-party Web hosting provider or any of the service providers with whom it contracts may have negative effects on our business, the nature and extent of which are difficult to predict. Additionally, if our third-party Web hosting provider is unable to keep up with our growing needs for capacity, this could have an adverse effect on our business. Any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our services could harm our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Businesses or technologies we acquire could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our ongoing business, dilute stockholder value or have an adverse effect on our results of operations. As part of our business strategy, we may engage in acquisitions of businesses or technologies to augment our organic or internal growth, as we did in July 2010 when we acquired Genline, in August 2010 when we acquired ProGenealogists and in October 2010 when we acquired iArchives. While we have engaged in some acquisitions in the past, we do not have extensive experience with integrating and managing acquired businesses or assets. Acquisitions involve challenges and risks in negotiation, execution, valuation and integration. Moreover, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition opportunities on terms that are acceptable to us. Even if successfully negotiated, closed and integrated, certain acquisitions may not advance our business strategy, may fall short of expected return-on-investment targets or may fail. Any recent or future acquisition could involve numerous risks including: • potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; • difficulty integrating the operations and products of the acquired business; • use of cash to fund the acquisition or for unanticipated expenses; • inability to effectively operate the new business; • exposure to unknown liabilities, including litigation, against the companies we acquire; • additional costs due to differences in culture, geographical locations and duplication of key talent; • acquisition-related accounting charges affecting our balance sheet and results of operations; • difficulty integrating the financial reports of the acquired business in our Consolidated Financial Statements and implementing our internal controls in the acquired business; • potential impairment of goodwill and acquired intangible assets; • dilution to our current stockholders from the issuance of equity securities; and • potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company. In the event we enter into any acquisition agreements, closing of the transactions could be delayed or prevented by regulatory approval requirements, including antitrust review, or other conditions. We may not be successful in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any attempted acquisitions, and we could assume the economic risks of such failed or unsuccessful acquisitions. 15 Table of Contents We face many risks associated with our plans to continue to expand our international offerings and marketing and advertising efforts, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to our United States and United Kingdom Web sites, we have launched Web sites directed at Canada, Australia, Sweden, Germany, France, Italy and China and launched our global Mundia.com Web site. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 32% of subscribers to our Ancestry.com Web sites, and, for the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 25% of our revenues from subscribers, were from locations outside the United States. In addition, in July 2010, we acquired the owner and operator of the Swedish family history Web site, Genline.se. We are subject to many of the risks of doing business internationally, including the following: • exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • compliance with changing tax laws and the interpretation of those laws; • compliance with changing and conflicting legal and regulatory regimes; • compliance with U.S. laws affecting operations outside of the U.S., including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • compliance with varying and conflicting intellectual property laws; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • prevention of business or user fraud; and • effective implementation of internal controls and processes across diverse operations and a dispersed employee base. We anticipate that our continuing international expansion will continue to entail increased marketing and advertising of our products, services and brands, and the development of localized Web sites throughout our geographical markets. We may not succeed in these efforts and achieve our subscriber acquisition or other goals. For some international markets, customer preferences and buying behaviors may be different than those in our current markets, and we may use business models that are different from our traditional subscription models. The risks of international expansion include: • difficulties in developing and marketing our offerings and brands as a result of distance, language and cultural differences; • more stringent consumer and data protection laws; • local socio-economic and political conditions; • technical difficulties and costs associated with the localization of our service offerings; • strong local competitors; and • lack of experience in certain geographical markets. Our revenues from new foreign markets may not exceed the costs of acquiring, establishing, marketing and maintaining international offerings, and therefore may not be profitable on a sustained basis, if at all. One or more of these factors could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to improve market recognition of and loyalty to our brands, or if our reputation were to be harmed, we could lose subscribers or fail to increase the number of subscribers, which could harm our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our Ancestry.com brand and other brands is critical to our success. We believe that the importance of brand recognition and loyalty will only increase in light of increasing competition in our markets. We plan to continue to promote our brands, both domestically and internationally, but there is no guarantee that our selected strategies will increase the favorable recognition of our brands. Some of our existing and potential competitors, including search engines, media companies and government and religious institutions have well-established brands with greater brand recognition than we have. 16 Table of Contents Additionally, from time to time, our subscribers express dissatisfaction with our service, including, among other things, dissatisfaction with our auto-renewal and other billing policies, our handling of personal data and the way our services operate. To the extent that dissatisfaction with our service is widespread or not adequately addressed, our brand may be adversely impacted. If our efforts to promote and maintain our brand are not successful, our operating results and our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected. In addition, even if our brand recognition and loyalty increases, this may not result in increased use of our products and services or higher revenues. Many of our subscribers are passionate about family history research, and many of these subscribers participate in blogs on this topic both on our Web sites and elsewhere. If actions we take or changes we make to our products upset these subscribers, their blogging could negatively affect our brand and reputation, which could harm our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Our future growth may differ materially from our historic growth rates and our projections, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Online family history research is a relatively young industry. Consequently, it is difficult to predict the ultimate size of the industry and the acceptance by the market of our products and services. Our business strategy and projections rely on a number of assumptions, some or all of which may be incorrect. For example, we believe that consumers will be willing to pay for subscriptions to our online family history resources, notwithstanding the fact that some of our current and future competitors may provide such resources free of charge. We cannot accurately predict whether our products and services will achieve significant acceptance by potential users in significantly larger numbers than at present. You should therefore not rely on our historic growth rates as an indication of future growth. If we are unable to continually enhance our products and services and adapt them to technological changes and subscriber needs, we may not remain competitive and our business may fail to grow or decline. Our business is rapidly changing. To remain competitive, we must continue to provide relevant content and enhance and improve the functionality and features of our products and services. If we fail to do so, or if competitors introduce new solutions embodying new technologies, our existing products and services may become obsolete. Our future success will depend, among other things, on our ability to: • anticipate demand for new products and services; • enhance our existing solutions, cross-platform compatibility, systems capacity and processing speed; and • respond to technological advances on a cost-effective and timely basis. Developing the technologies in our products entails significant technical and business risks. We may use new technologies ineffectively, or we may fail to adapt our products and services to the demands of our subscribers. If we face material delays in introducing new or enhanced solutions, our subscribers may forego the use of our solutions in favor of those of our competitors. Undetected product or service errors or defects could result in the loss of revenues, delayed market acceptance of our products or services or claims against us. We offer a variety of Internet-based services and a software product, Family Tree Maker, which are complex and frequently upgraded. Our Internet-based services and software product may contain undetected errors, defects, failures or viruses, especially when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Despite product testing, our products, or third party products that we incorporate into ours, may contain undetected errors, defects or viruses that could, among other things: • require us to make extensive changes to our subscription services or software product, which would increase our expenses; • expose us to claims for damages; • require us to incur additional technical support costs; • cause a negative registered user reaction that could reduce future sales; • generate negative publicity regarding us and our subscription services and software product; or • result in subscribers delaying their subscription or software purchase or electing not to renew their subscriptions. Any of these occurrences could have an adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Privacy concerns could require us to incur significant expense and modify our operations in a manner that could result in restrictions and prohibitions on our use of certain information, and therefore harm our business. As part of our business, we make biographical and historical data available through our Web sites, we use registered users’ personal data for internal purposes and we host Web sites and message boards, among other things, that contain content supplied by third parties. In addition, in connection with our Ancestry.com DNA product, we obtain biological DNA samples used for genetic testing. For privacy or security reasons, privacy groups, governmental agencies and individuals may seek to restrict or prevent our use or publication of certain biological or historical information pertaining to individuals, particularly living persons. We will also face additional privacy issues as we expand into other international markets, as many nations have privacy protections more stringent than those in the United States. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenses to comply with privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations. Increased domestic or international regulation of data utilization and distribution practices, including self-regulation, could require us to modify our operations and incur significant expense, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our possession and use of personal information presents risks and expenses that could harm our business. Unauthorized disclosure or manipulation of such data, whether through breach of our network security or otherwise, could expose us to costly litigation and damage our reputation. Maintaining our network security is of critical importance because our online systems store confidential registered user, employee and other sensitive data, such as names, addresses, credit card numbers and other personal information. In particular, a substantial majority of our subscribers use credit and debit cards to purchase our products and services. If we or our processing vendors were to have problems with our billing software, it could have an adverse effect on our subscriber satisfaction and could cause one or more of the major credit card companies to disallow our continued use of their payment services. In addition, if our billing software fails to work properly and, as a result, we do not automatically charge our subscribers’ credit cards on a timely basis or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, our online systems store the content that our registered users upload onto our Web sites, such as family records and photos. This content is often personally meaningful, and our registered users may rely on our online system to store digital copies of such content. If we were to lose such content, if our users’ private content were to be publicly available or if third parties were able to access and manipulate such content, we may face liability and harm to our brand and reputation. We and our vendors use commercially available encryption technology to transmit personal information when taking orders. We use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information, including registered users’ uploaded content. However, third parties may be able to circumvent these security and business measures by developing and deploying viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that are designed to attack or attempt to infiltrate our systems and networks. In addition, employee error, malfeasance or other errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of registered user or employee privacy. If third parties improperly obtain and use the personal information of our registered users or employees, we may be required to expend significant resources to resolve these problems. A major breach of our network security and systems could have serious negative consequences for our businesses, including possible fines, penalties and damages, reduced demand for our products and services, an unwillingness of subscribers to provide us with their credit card or payment information, an unwillingness of registered users to upload family records or photos onto our Web sites, harm to our reputation and brand and loss of our ability to accept and process subscriber credit card orders. Similarly, if a well-publicized breach of data security at any other major consumer Web site were to occur, there could be a general public loss of confidence in the use of the Internet for commercial transactions. Any of these events could have adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any claims related to activities of registered users and the content they upload could result in expenses that could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Our registered users often upload their own content onto our Web sites. The terms of use of such content are set forth in the terms and conditions of our Web sites and a submission agreement to which registered users must agree when they upload their content. Disputes or negative publicity about the use of such content could make members more reluctant to upload personal content or harm our reputation. We do not review or monitor content uploaded by our registered users, and could face claims arising from or liability for making any such content available on our Web sites. In addition, our collaboration tools and other features of our site allow registered users to contact each other. While registered users can choose to remain anonymous in such communications, registered users may choose to engage with one another without anonymity. If any such contact were to lead to fraud or other harm, we may face claims against us and negative publicity. Litigation to defend these claims or efforts to counter any negative publicity could be costly and any other liabilities we incur in connection with any such claims may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Increases in credit card processing fees would increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations, and the termination of our relationship with any major credit card company could have a severe, negative impact on our ability to collect revenues from subscribers. The substantial majority of our subscribers pay for our products and services using credit cards. From time to time, the major credit card companies or the issuing banks may increase the fees that they charge for each transaction using their cards. An increase in those fees would require us to increase the prices we charge for our products and services or negatively impact our profitability, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our credit card fees may be increased by credit card companies if our chargeback rate or the refund rate exceeds certain minimum thresholds. If we are unable to maintain our chargeback rate at acceptable levels, our credit card fees for chargeback transactions, or for all credit card transactions, may be increased, and, if the problem significantly worsens, credit card companies may further increase our fees or terminate their relationships with us. Any increases in our credit card fees could adversely affect our results of operations, particularly if we elect not to raise our subscription rates to offset the increase. The termination of our ability to process payments on any major credit or debit card would significantly impair our ability to collect revenues from subscribers. Our operating results depend on numerous factors and may fluctuate from period to period, which could make them difficult to predict. Our quarterly and annual operating results are tied to certain financial and operational metrics that have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. As a result, you should not rely upon our past operating results as indicators of future performance. Our operating results depend on numerous factors, many of which are outside of our control. In addition to the other risks described in this “Risk Factors” section, the following risks could cause our operating results to fluctuate: • our ability to retain existing subscribers and attract new subscribers; • the mix of annual and monthly subscribers at any given time and the mix of packages to which they subscribe; • the success and timing of television programming relating to family history and its impact on our market and our marketing expenditures; • timing and amount of costs of new and existing marketing and advertising efforts; • timing and amount of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure, including content acquisition and international expansion costs; • the cost and timing of the development and introduction of new product and service offerings by us or our competitors; • downward pressure on the pricing of our subscriptions; • system failures, security breaches or Web site downtime; • fluctuations in the usage of our Web sites; and • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. For these or other reasons, the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance and our revenue and operating results in the future may differ materially from the expectations of management or investors. 19 Table of Contents If government regulation of the Internet or other areas of our business changes or if consumer attitudes toward use of the Internet change, we may need to change the manner in which we conduct our business in a manner that is less profitable or incur greater operating expenses, which could harm our results of operations. The adoption, modification or interpretation of laws or regulations relating to the Internet or other areas of our business could adversely affect the manner in which we conduct our business or the overall popularity or growth in use of the Internet. Such laws and regulations may cover automatic subscription renewal, credit card processing procedures, sales and other procedures, tariffs, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts, consumer protection, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of services. In foreign countries, such as countries in Europe, such laws may be more restrictive than in the United States. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet. If we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses, make it more difficult to renew subscriptions automatically, make it more difficult to attract new subscribers or otherwise alter our business model. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our revenues may be adversely affected if we are required to charge sales taxes in additional jurisdictions and/or other taxes for our products and services. We collect or have imposed upon us sales or other taxes related to the products and services we sell in certain states and other jurisdictions. Additional states or one or more countries or other jurisdictions may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on us in the future or states or jurisdictions in which we already pay tax may increase the amount of taxes we are required to pay. A successful assertion by any country, state or other jurisdiction in which we do business that we should be collecting sales or other taxes on the sale of our products and services could, among other things, result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, create significant administrative burdens for us, discourage registered users from purchasing from us or otherwise substantially harm our business and results of operations. Our new credit facility contains a number of financial and operating covenants which could limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our new credit facility contains a number of financial and operating covenants that could limit our flexibility in operating our business, including a covenant to maintain a specified ratio of a measure of certain funded indebtedness (excluding subordinated indebtedness) to a measure of EBITDA (as EBITDA is defined in the new credit facility) and a covenant to maintain a specified ratio of a measure of EBITDA to a measure of fixed charges. As of December 31, 2010, we have not drawn any funds under the new credit facility. Our future indebtedness could: • make us more vulnerable to unfavorable economic conditions; • make it more difficult to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; • require us to dedicate or reserve a large portion of our cash flow from operations for making payments on our indebtedness, which would prevent us from using it for other purposes; • make us susceptible to fluctuations in market interest rates that affect the cost of our borrowings to the extent that our variable rate debt is not covered by interest rate derivative agreements; and • make it more difficult to pursue strategic acquisitions, alliances and collaborations. Our obligations under the new credit facility are secured by collateral, which includes substantially all of our assets, including our intellectual property. If we draw funds under the new credit facility and we are not able to satisfy our obligations under the new credit facility, the lenders could exercise their rights under the new credit facility, including taking control of the collateral, including our intellectual property, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we cannot assure you that our lenders will have sufficient liquidity to provide funds to us if and when we try to draw funds under the new credit facility. We face risk associated with currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 22% of our total revenues were received, and approximately 8% of our total expenses were paid, in currencies other than the United States dollar, such as the British pound sterling, the Canadian dollar and the Australian dollar. As a result, we are at risk for exchange rate fluctuations between such foreign currencies and the United States dollar, which could affect our revenues and results of operations. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions will result in decreased revenues, operating expenses and net income. We may not be able to offset adverse foreign currency impact with increased subscription pricing or volume. We attempt to limit our exposure by paying our operating expenses incurred in foreign jurisdictions with revenues received in the applicable currency, but if we do not have enough local currency to pay all our expenses in that currency, we are exposed to currency exchange rate risk with respect to those expenses. We are also exposed to exchange rate risk with respect to our revenues earned in foreign currencies. Even if we were to implement hedging strategies to mitigate foreign currency risk, these strategies might not eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations and would involve costs and risks of their own, such as ongoing management time and expertise, external costs to implement the strategies and potential accounting implications. 20 Table of Contents Our business may be significantly impacted by a change in the economy, including any resulting effect on consumer spending. Our business may be affected by changes in the economy generally, including any resulting effect on consumer spending specifically. Our products and services are discretionary purchases, and consumers may reduce their discretionary spending on our products and services during an economic downturn such as the recent economic downturn. Although we have not experienced a material increase in subscription cancellations or a material reduction in subscription renewals, we may yet experience such an increase or reduction in the future, especially if employment and personal income do not improve. Conversely, consumers may spend more time using the Internet during an economic downturn and may have less time for our products and services in a period of economic growth. In addition, media prices may increase in a period of economic growth, which could significantly increase our marketing and advertising expenses. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be significantly affected by changes in the economy generally. The loss of one or more of our key personnel could harm our business. We depend on the continued service and performance of our key personnel, including Timothy Sullivan, our President and Chief Executive Officer. We do not maintain key man insurance on any of our officers or key employees. We also do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our officers or key employees. In addition, much of our key technology and systems are custom-made for our business by our personnel. The loss of key personnel, including key members of our management team, as well as certain of our key marketing, product development or technology personnel could disrupt our operations and have an adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. We have and will continue to incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives. As a public company, we incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with our public company reporting and corporate governance requirements. We continue to devote resources to compliance with evolving laws and regulations, which may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In order to respond to additional regulations applicable to public companies, such as Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have hired a number of finance and accounting personnel. In the future, we may be required to hire additional full-time accounting and other related finance personnel. Some of these positions require candidates with public company experience, and we may be unable to locate and hire such individuals as quickly as needed, if at all. In addition, new employees will require time and training to learn our business and operating processes and procedures. If our finance and accounting organization is unable for any reason to respond adequately to the increased demands resulting from being a public company, the quality and timeliness of our financial reporting may suffer and we could experience internal control weaknesses. Any consequences resulting from inaccuracies or delays in our reported financial statements could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock as well as an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We have made significant estimates in calculating our income tax provision and other tax assets and liabilities. If these estimates are incorrect, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. We are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the determination of our provision for income taxes and other tax assets and liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain at the present time. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Expenses or liabilities resulting from litigation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, we may be subject to claims or litigation. Any such claims or litigation may be time-consuming and costly, divert management resources, require us to change our products and services, require us to accept returns of software products, or have other adverse effects on our business. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could require us to pay significant monetary damages. For example, in August 2009, we received a letter from Shutterfly, Inc., alleging infringement of certain of their patents by our operation of the MyCanvas.com Web site. While MyCanvas.com revenues have represented a small percentage of our total revenue, intellectual property litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and there can be no assurance that the expenses associated with defending any litigation or the resolution of this dispute would not have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or cash flows. We cannot assure you of the ultimate outcome of any legal proceeding or contingency in which we are or may become involved. Risks Related to Intellectual Property If our intellectual property and technologies are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. Our future success and competitive position depend in part on our ability to protect our proprietary technologies and intellectual property. We rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary technologies and intellectual property. Many of our trademarks contain words or terms having a 21 Table of Contents somewhat common usage and, as a result, we may have difficulty registering them in certain jurisdictions. Although we possess intellectual property rights in some aspects of our digital content, search technology, software products and digitization and indexing processes, our digital content is not protected by any registered copyrights or other registered intellectual property or statutory rights. Rather, our digital content is protected by user agreements that limit access to and use of our data, and by our proprietary indexing and search technology that we apply to make our digital content searchable. However, compliance with use restrictions is difficult to monitor, and our proprietary rights in our digital content databases may be more difficult to enforce than other forms of intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that the steps we take will be adequate to protect our technologies and intellectual property, that our patent and trademark applications will lead to issued patents and registered trademarks in all instances, that others will not develop or patent similar or superior technologies, products or services, or that our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others. Furthermore, the intellectual property laws of other countries at which our Web sites are or may be in the future be directed may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving, both in the United States and in other countries. In addition, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and litigation may be necessary to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. Any such litigation could be very costly and could divert management attention and resources. If the protection of our technologies and intellectual property is inadequate to prevent use or appropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished and competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our subscription services and methods of operations. Any of these events would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also expect that the more successful we are, the more likely it will become that competitors will try to develop products that are similar to ours, which may infringe on our proprietary rights. It may also be more likely that competitors will claim that our products and services infringe on their proprietary rights. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights or if third parties independently develop or gain access to our or similar technologies, our business, revenue, reputation and competitive position could be harmed. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. Failure to protect our proprietary information could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products and harm our business. A substantial amount of our tools and technologies are protected by trade secret laws. In order to protect our proprietary technologies and processes, we rely in part on security measures, as well as confidentiality agreements with our employees, licensees, independent contractors and other advisors. These measures and agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information, including trade secrets, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. We could potentially lose future trade secret protection if any unauthorized disclosure of such information occurs. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Laws regarding trade secret rights in certain markets in which we operate may afford little or no protection to our trade secrets. The loss of trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality. In addition, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may compromise our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property rights. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our business, revenue, reputation and competitive position. Intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our Web sites, content indexes, and marketing and advertising activities. Trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies. Our intellectual property rights extend to our technologies, business processes and the content on our Web sites. We use intellectual property licensed from third parties in merchandising our products and marketing and advertising our services. From time to time, third parties may allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. If there is a claim against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third party intellectual property rights, and we are unable to obtain sufficient rights or develop non-infringing intellectual property or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. Many companies are devoting significant resources to obtaining patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business. There are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the Internet. We have not exhaustively searched patents relevant to our technologies and business. If we are forced to defend ourselves against intellectual property infringement claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, we may face costly litigation, diversion of technical and management personnel, limitations on our ability to use our current Web sites or inability to market or provide our products or services. As a result of any such dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, pay damages, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, cease providing certain products or services, adjust our merchandizing or marketing and advertising activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. These actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. In addition, many of our co-branding, distribution and other partnering agreements require us to indemnify our partners for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which could increase the cost to us of an adverse ruling in such an action. 22 Table of Contents In addition, as a publisher of online content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement or other claims based on the nature and content of data and materials that we publish or distribute. These claims could potentially arise with respect to both company-acquired content and user-generated content. Litigation to defend these claims could be costly and any other liabilities we incur in connection with the claims may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our domain names, our reputation and brand could be affected adversely, which may negatively impact our ability to compete. We have registered domain names for Web site destinations that we use in our business, such as Ancestry.com, Footnote.com and Genealogy.com. However, if we are unable to maintain our rights in these domain names, our competitors could capitalize on our brand recognition by using these domain names for their own benefit. In addition, our competitors could capitalize on our brand recognition by using domain names similar to ours. Domain names similar to ours have been registered in the United States and elsewhere, and in many countries the top-level domain names “ancestry” or “genealogy” are owned by other parties. Although we own the “ancestry.co.uk” domain name in the United Kingdom, we might not be able to, or may choose not to, acquire or maintain other country-specific versions of the “ancestry” and “genealogy” domain names. Further, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and is unclear in some jurisdictions. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring and using domain names that infringe on, are similar to, or otherwise decrease the value of, our brand or our trademarks or service marks. Protecting and enforcing our rights in our domain names and determining the rights of others may require litigation, which could result in substantial costs and divert management attention. We may not prevail if any such litigation is initiated. Risks Related to our Common Stock and Corporate Structure Delaware law and our corporate charter and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. For example, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to five million shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the powers, preferences and rights of each series without stockholder approval. The ability to issue preferred stock could discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our company, or otherwise could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation requires that any action to be taken by stockholders must be taken at a duly called meeting of stockholders, which may only be called by our board of directors, the chairperson of our board of directors or the chief executive officer, with the concurrence of a majority of our board of directors, and may not be taken by written consent. Our bylaws also require that any stockholder proposals or nominations for election to our board of directors meet specific advance notice requirements and procedures, which make it more difficult for our stockholders to make proposals or director nominations. In addition, we have a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which could delay the ability of stockholders to change membership of a majority of our board of directors. Furthermore, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit or restrict large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts and could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in our market price being lower than it would without these provisions. Our share price may be volatile due to fluctuations in our operating results and other factors, each of which could cause our stock price to decline. The market price of shares of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many risks listed herein and others beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our key operating metrics, financial condition and operating results; • a greater than expected gain or loss of existing subscribers; • a change in one or more of our key metrics; • actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate; 23 Table of Contents • issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities analysts; • our announcement of actual results for a fiscal period that are higher or lower than projected or expected results or our announcement of revenue or earnings guidance that is higher or lower than expected; • fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; • share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; • sales or expected sales of additional common stock; • announcements from, or operating results of, our competitors; or • general economic and market conditions. Furthermore, during the last few years, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations and the market prices of some equity securities continue to be volatile. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may cause the market price of shares of our common stock to decline. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. Our stock price may be affected by coverage by securities analysts. The trading of our common stock is influenced by the reports and research that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If analysts stop covering us, or if too few analysts cover us, the trading price of our stock would likely decrease. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price will likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Financial forecasting by us and financial analysts who may publish estimates of our performance may differ materially from actual results. Given the dynamic nature of our business, the current uncertain economic climate and the inherent limitations in predicting the future, forecasts of our revenues, gross margin, operating expenses, number of paying subscribers and other financial and operating data may differ materially from actual results. Such discrepancies could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Spectrum Equity Investors and its affiliates own a substantial portion of our outstanding common stock, and their interests may not always coincide with the interests of the other holders of our common stock. As of December 31, 2010, Spectrum Equity Investors V, L.P. and certain of its affiliates beneficially owned in the aggregate shares representing approximately 41% of our outstanding voting power. Two persons associated with Spectrum Equity Investors V, L.P. currently serve on our board of directors. As a result, Spectrum Equity Investors V, L.P. and certain of its affiliates could have significant influence over all matters presented to our stockholders for approval, including election and removal of our directors and change of control transactions. The interests of Spectrum Equity Investors V, L.P. and certain of its affiliates may not always coincide with the interests of the other holders of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 