RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Argentina General We are a stock corporation (sociedad anónima) incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Argentina and substantially all of our revenues are earned in Argentina and substantially all of our operations, facilities, and customers are located in Argentina. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations depend to a significant extent on macroeconomic and political conditions prevailing in Argentina. For example, lower economic growth or economic recession could lead to lower demand for electricity in the service areas in which our subsidiaries operate or a decline in purchasing power of our customers, which, in turn, could lead to lower collections from our clients or growth in energy losses due to illegal use of the services provided by our power generation, transmission and distribution businesses. Argentine government actions concerning the economy, including decisions with respect to inflation, interest rates, price controls, foreign exchange controls and taxes, have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on private sector entities, including us. We cannot provide any assurance that future economic, social and political developments in Argentina, such as the upcoming congressional and presidential elections, over which we have no control, will not impair our businesses, financial condition, or results of operations or cause the market value of our ADSs to decline. The global financial crisis and unfavorable credit and market conditions that commenced in 2007 may negatively affect our liquidity, customers, business, and results of operations. The ongoing effects of the global credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, an impact that is likely to be more severe on an emerging market economy, such as Argentina. The effect of this economic crisis on our customers and on us cannot be predicted. Weak economic conditions could lead to reduced demand or lower prices for energy, which could have a negative effect on our revenues. Economic factors such as unemployment, inflation levels and the availability of credit could also have a material adverse effect on demand for energy and therefore on our financial condition and operating results. The financial and economic situation may also have a negative impact on third parties with whom we do, or may do, business. In addition, our ability to access the credit or capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would need financing, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. For these reasons, any of the foregoing factors or a combination of these factors could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and cause the market value of our ADSs to decline. Argentina’s economic recovery since the 2001 economic crisis may not be sustainable in light of current economic conditions, and any significant decline could adversely affect our financial condition During 2001 and 2002, Argentina went through a period of severe political, economic and social crisis. Although the economy has recovered significantly since the 2001 crisis, uncertainty remains as to the sustainability of economic growth and stability. After the slowdown in Argentina’s economy in 2009, which started in the last quarter of 2008 and continued into much of 2009 (impacted by the largest global crisis in decades and negative domestic factors), 2010 experienced a growth of about 9.2%, according to official public estimates. However, uncertainty about the sustainability of this growth rate remains. Sustainable economic growth is dependent on a variety of factors, including international demand for Argentine exports, the stability and competitiveness of the Peso against foreign currencies, confidence among consumers and foreign and domestic investors and a stable and relatively low rate of inflation. The Argentine economy remains fragile, as reflected by the following economic conditions: unemployment remains high; the availability of long-term credit is scarce; investment as a percentage of GDP remains too low to sustain the growth rate of recent years; 9 Table of Contents the Argentine government’s fiscal surplus shows a steady decline with risk of becoming a fiscal deficit in the near term; Argentina’s public debt remains high and international financing is limited; inflation has accelerated recently and may rise to levels that threaten economic stability; the regulatory environment continues to be uncertain; the recovery has depended to some extent on high commodity prices which, despite having a favorable long-term trend, are volatile in the short term and beyond the control of the Argentine government; and the trade surplus (and the fiscal surplus to a lesser extent) depends largely on the production of grains and soybeans, such that the risk is magnified by the possibility of a new major drought affecting the crop (as in the 2008-2009 campaign). As in the recent past, Argentina’s economy may suffer if political and social pressures inhibit the implementation by the Argentine government of policies designed to maintain price stability, generate growth and enhance consumer and investor confidence. This, in turn, could lead to lower demand for the services provided by our subsidiaries as well as lower collection rates from clients and growth in energy losses due to illegal use of the services provided by our businesses, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, as it has done in the past, the Argentine government could respond to a lack of economic growth or stability by adopting measures that affect private sector enterprises, including the tariff restrictions imposed on public utility companies such as several of our subsidiaries. We cannot provide any assurance that a decline in economic growth or increased economic instability, developments over which we have no control, would not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations or would not have a negative impact on the market value of our ADSs. The continuing rise in inflation may have adverse effects on the Argentine economy, which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations According to data published by the National Statistics and Census Institute (Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Censos, or INDEC), the rate of inflation reached 10.9% in 2010, 7.7% in 2009 and 7.2% in 2008. Over the course of the past several years, the Argentine government has implemented several programs to control inflation and monitor prices for most relevant goods and services. These government actions included price support arrangements agreed to by the Argentine government and private sector companies in several industries and markets. Uncertainty surrounding future inflation and the current economic situation could slow economic recovery. In the past, inflation has materially undermined the Argentine economy and the government’s ability to create conditions that permit growth. A return to a high inflation environment would also undermine Argentina’s foreign competitiveness by diluting the effects of the Peso devaluation, with the same negative effects on the level of economic activity. In turn, a portion of the Argentine debt is adjusted by the Stabilization Coefficient (Coeficiente de Estabilización de Referencia, or CER Index), a currency index, that is strongly related to inflation. Therefore, any significant increase in inflation would cause an increase in the external debt and consequently in Argentina’s financial obligations, which could further exacerbate the stress on the Argentine economy. A high inflation environment could also temporarily undermine our results of operations as a result of a lag in cost adjustments, and we may be unable to adjust our tariffs accordingly. In addition, a return to high inflation would undermine the confidence in Argentina’s banking system in general, which would further limit the availability of domestic and international credit to businesses, which could adversely affect our ability to finance the working capital needs of our businesses on favorable terms, and adversely affect our results of operations and cause the market value of our ADSs to decline. 10 Table of Contents The credibility of several Argentine economic indices has been called into question, which may lead to a lack of confidence in the Argentine economy and may in turn limit our ability to access the credit and capital markets In January 2007, INDEC modified its methodology used to calculate the consumer price index (CPI), which is calculated as the monthly average of a weighted basket of consumer goods and services that reflects the pattern of consumption of Argentine households. Further, at the time that INDEC adopted this change in methodology, the Argentine government also replaced several key personnel at INDEC. The alleged governmental interference prompted complaints from the technical staff at INDEC, which, in turn, has led to the initiation of several judicial investigations involving members of the Argentine government and aimed at determining whether there was a breach of classified statistical information relating to the collection of data used in the calculation of the CPI. These events have affected the credibility of the CPI index published by INDEC, as well as other indexes published by INDEC that require the CPI for their own calculation, including the poverty index, the unemployment index as well as the calculation of the GDP, among others. If these investigations result in a finding that the methodologies used to calculate the CPI or other INDEC indexes derived from the CPI were manipulated by the Argentine government, or if it is determined that it is necessary to correct the CPI and the other INDEC indexes derived from the CPI as a result of the methodology used by INDEC, there could be a significant decrease in confidence in the Argentine economy. With credit to emerging market nations already tenuous as a result of the global economic crisis, our ability to access credit and capital markets to finance our operations and growth in the future could be further limited by the uncertainty relating to the accuracy of the economic indices in question which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions and cause the market value of our ADSs and common shares to decline. Argentina’s ability to obtain financing from international markets is limited, which may impair its ability to implement reforms and foster economic growth, and consequently, may affect our business, results of operations and prospects for growth In 2005, Argentina restructured part of its sovereign debt that had been in default since the end of 2001. The Argentine government announced that as a result of this restructuring, it had approximately U.S. $129.2 billion in total gross public debt as of December 31, 2005. Certain bondholders that did not participate in that restructuring, mainly from the United States, Italy and Germany, have filed legal actions against Argentina to collect on the defaulted bonds. Many of these proceedings are still pending as of this date and holdout creditors may initiate new suits in the future. On January 3, 2006, Argentina repaid in full its debt of approximately U.S. $9.8 billion with the International Monetary Fund. In September 2008, Argentina announced its intention to cancel its external public debt to Paris Club creditor nations using reserves of the Central Bank in an amount equal to approximately U.S. $6.5 billion. However, as of the date of this annual report, the National Government has not yet cancelled such debt. In late 2010, President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner announced a new round of negotiations with the Paris Club to cancel such debt, which then totaled approximately U.S. $8.0 billion, without the intervention of the IMF. As of the date of this annual report, the Minister of Economy and Public Finance, Amado Boudou, is carrying out the related negotiations and the terms of a final agreement are not yet known. If no agreement with the Paris Club creditor nations is reached, financing from multilateral financial institutions may be limited or not available, which could adversely affect economic growth in Argentina and Argentina’s public finances. 11 Table of Contents Certain groups of holders that did not participate in the 2005 restructuring have filed claims against Argentina and it is possible that new claims will be filed in the future. In addition, foreign shareholders of several Argentine companies have filed claims before the ICSID (International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes) alleging that certain government measures adopted during the country’s 2001 crisis were inconsistent with the fair and equitable treatment standards set forth in various bilateral investment treaties to which Argentina is a party. Since May 2005, the ICSID tribunals have issued several awards against Argentina. Only the cases “CMS v. Argentina”, “Azurix v. Argentina” and “Vivendi v. Argentina” are currently firm, which decisions required that the Argentine government pay U.S. $133.2 million, U.S. $165.2 million and U.S. $105 million, respectively. As of the date of this annual report, Argentina has not yet paid the amounts referred to above. On April 30, 2010, Argentina launched a new debt exchange to holders of the securities issued in the 2005 debt exchange and to holders of the securities that were eligible to participate in the 2005 debt exchange (other than Brady bonds) to exchange such debt for new securities and, in certain cases, a cash payment. As a result of the 2005 and 2010 exchange offers, Argentina restructured over 91% of the defaulted debt eligible for the 2005 and 2010 exchange offers. The creditors who did not participate in the 2005 or 2010 exchange offers may continue with legal action against Argentina for the recovery of debt, which could adversely affect Argentina’s access to the international capital markets. Argentina’s past default and its failure to restructure completely its remaining sovereign debt and fully negotiate with the holdout creditors may limit Argentina’s ability to reenter the international capital markets. Litigation initiated by holdout creditors as well as ICSID claims have resulted and may continue to result in judgments and awards against the Argentine government which, if not paid, could prevent Argentina from obtaining credit from multilateral organizations. Judgment creditors have sought and may continue to seek to attach or enjoin assets of Argentina. In addition, various creditors have organized themselves into associations to engage in lobbying and public relations concerning Argentina’s default on its public indebtedness. Such groups have over the years unsuccessfully urged passage of federal and New York state legislation directed at Argentina’s defaulted debt and aimed at limiting Argentina’s access to the U.S. capital markets. Although neither the United States Congress nor the New York state legislature has taken any significant steps towards adopting such legislation, we can make no assurance that legislation or other political actions designed to limit Argentina’s access to capital markets will not take effect. As a result of Argentina’s default and the events that have followed it, the government may not have the financial resources necessary to implement reforms and foster economic growth, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the country’s economy and, consequently, our businesses and results of operations. Furthermore, Argentina’s inability to obtain credit in international markets could have a direct impact on our own ability to access international credit markets to finance our operations and growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions and cause the market value of our ADSs and common shares to decline. Significant fluctuations in the value of the Peso against the U.S. Dollar may adversely affect the Argentine economy, which could, in turn adversely affect our results of operations Despite the positive effects the depreciation of the Peso in 2002 had on the export-oriented sectors of the Argentine economy, the depreciation has also had a far-reaching negative impact on a range of businesses and on individuals’ financial positions. The devaluation of the Peso had a negative impact on the ability of Argentine businesses to honor their foreign currency-denominated debt, led to very high inflation initially, significantly reduced real wages, had a negative impact on businesses whose success is dependent on domestic market demand, including public utilities and the financial industry, and adversely affected the government’s ability to honor its foreign debt obligations. If the Peso devalues significantly, all of the negative effects on the Argentine economy related to such devaluation could recur, with adverse consequences to our businesses, our results of operations and the market value of our ADSs. Moreover, it would likely result in a decline in the value of our shares and ADSs as measured in U.S. Dollars. Similarly, a substantial increase in the value of the Peso against the U.S. Dollar also presents risks for the Argentine economy, including, for example, a reduction in exports. This could have a negative effect on economic growth and employment and reduce the Argentine public sector’s revenues by reducing tax collection in real terms, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and the market value of our ADSs as a result of the weakening of the Argentine economy in general. 12 Table of Contents Government measures to address social unrest may adversely affect the Argentine economy and thereby affect our business and results of operations. During the economic crisis in 2001 and 2002, Argentina experienced social and political turmoil, including civil unrest, riots, looting, nationwide protests, strikes and street demonstrations. Despite the economic recovery and relative stability since 2002, social and political tensions and high levels of poverty and unemployment continue. Future government policies to preempt, or respond to, social unrest may include expropriation, nationalization, forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, suspension of the enforcement of creditors’ rights and shareholders’ rights, new taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims, and changes in laws, regulations and policies affecting foreign trade and investment. These policies could destabilize the country, both socially and politically, and adversely and materially affect the Argentine economy. In March 2008, the Argentine Ministry of Economy and Production announced the adoption of new taxes on exports of a number of agricultural products. The new taxes were to be calculated at incremental rates as the price for the exported products increase, and represented a significant increase in taxes on exports by the agricultural sector in Argentina. The adoption of these taxes met significant opposition from various political and economic groups with ties to the Argentine agricultural sector, including strikes by agricultural producers around the country, roadblocks to prevent the circulation of agricultural goods within Argentina and massive demonstrations in the City of Buenos Aires and other major Argentine cities. Although these measures did not pass the Argentine Congress, we cannot make assurances that the Argentine government will not seek to reintroduce the export taxes or adopt other measures affecting this or other sectors of the economy (including the electricity sector) to compensate for the lost revenues associated with these taxes. These uncertainties could lead to further social unrest that could adversely affect the Argentine economy. In addition, economic distress may lead to lower demand for energy, lower collections from our clients, as well as growth of energy losses due to illegal use of our services. We may also experience increased damages to our networks as a result of protesters or illicit activity, which may increase as a result of the decline in economic conditions, all of which, in turn may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and the market value of our shares and ADSs. Exchange controls and restrictions on transfers abroad and capital inflow restrictions have limited and can be expected to continue to limit the availability of international credit and could threaten the financial system and lead to renewed political and social tensions, adversely affecting the Argentine economy, and, as a result, our business In 2001 and the first half of 2002, Argentina experienced a massive withdrawal of deposits from the Argentine financial system in a short period of time, as depositors lost confidence in the Argentine government’s ability to repay its foreign debt and maintain the Convertibility regime. This precipitated a liquidity crisis within the Argentine financial system, which prompted the Argentine government to impose exchange controls and restrictions on the ability of depositors to withdraw their deposits. These restrictions have been substantially eased, including those requiring the Central Bank’s prior authorization for the transfer of funds abroad in order to pay principal and interest on debt obligations. However, Argentina may re-impose exchange controls, transfer restrictions or other measures in the future in response to capital flight or a significant depreciation of the Peso. In addition, the Argentine government adopted various rules and regulations in June 2005 that established new controls on capital inflows, requiring, among other things, that 30% of certain specified capital inflows (such as those destined for local money holdings and the acquisition of certain active or passive private sector financings) be deposited for one year in a non-assignable, non-interest bearing account in Argentina. See “—Exchange Rates and Controls.” In the event of a future shock, such as the failure of one or more banks or a crisis in depositor confidence, the Argentine government could impose further exchange controls or transfer restrictions and take other measures that could lead to renewed political and social tensions and undermine the Argentine government’s public finances, which could adversely affect Argentina’s economy and prospects for economic growth, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business and results of operations and the market value of our shares and ADSs. In addition, the Argentine government or the Central Bank may reenact certain restrictions on the transfers of funds abroad, impairing our ability to make dividend payments to holders of the ADSs, which may adversely affect the market value of our ADSs. As of the date of this annual report, however, the transfer of funds abroad to pay dividends is permitted to the extent such dividend payments are made in connection with audited financial statements approved by a shareholders’ meeting. 13 Table of Contents The Argentine economy could be adversely affected by economic developments in other global markets Financial and securities markets in Argentina are influenced, to varying degrees, by economic and market conditions in other global markets. Although economic conditions vary from country to country, investors’ perception of the events occurring in one country may substantially affect capital flows into and securities from issuers in other countries, including Argentina. The Argentine economy was adversely impacted by the political and economic events that occurred in several emerging economies in the 1990s, including Mexico in 1994, the collapse of several Asian economies between 1997 and 1998, the economic crisis in Russia in 1998 and the Brazilian devaluation of its currency in January 1999. In addition, Argentina continues to be affected by events in the economies of its major regional partners, including, for example, currency devaluations caused by the global economic crisis. Furthermore, the Argentine economy may be affected by events in developed economies which are trading partners or that impact the global economy. Economic conditions and credit availability in Argentina were affected by an economic and banking crisis originated in the United States in 2008 and 2009. When the crisis began, major financial institutions suffered considerable losses, investor confidence in the global financial system was shaken and various financial institutions required government bailouts or ceased operations altogether. Moreover, in recent years several European Union members have been obliged to reduce their public expenditures due to their high indebtedness rates, which has negatively impacted the Euro zone’s economy. After acknowledging difficulties to meet payment of its public debt, the accounts of Greece were put under the supervision of the European Union. Mainly due to fears of contagion and to the drastic decline in Greece’s public debt ratings, the European Union, together with the International Monetary Fund, designed a plan of aid for Greece involving the supply of approximately 110 billion Euros. This contribution was granted based on the adjustment plan approved by the European Union for Greece, which included pay cuts for civil servants, pensions and retirement reductions, and significant increases in taxes. This led to widespread rioting in the streets. Spain, Portugal, Germany and the UK similarly have made adjustments in all areas to prevent further deterioration of their accounts. More recently, Ireland has adopted similar measures. Notwithstanding these measures, it is unclear what consequences there would be in the global financial system if any of the major global financial institutions became insolvent, or what effects such a situation might have on the rest of the financial system. The current global economic condition may have significant long-term effects on Latin America and Argentina, mainly reflected in the lack of access to international credit, reduced demand for Argentine exports, and significant reductions in foreign direct investment. The realization of any or all of these risk factors, as well as events that may arise in the main regional partners, including members of Mercosur, could have a material adverse effect on the Argentine economy and, indirectly, on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market value of our ADSs. Risks Relating to the Argentine Electricity Sector The Argentine government has intervened in the electricity sector in the past, and any further interventions may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations To address the Argentine economic crisis in 2001 and 2002, the Argentine government adopted a law that made a number of material changes to the regulatory framework applicable to the electricity sector (the Emergency Law). These changes, which severely affected electricity generation, distribution and transmission companies, included the freezing and “pesification” of tariffs, the revocation of adjustment and inflation indexation mechanisms, and the introduction of new price-setting mechanisms in the wholesale electricity market (“WEM”) which had a significant impact on electricity generators and has led to significant price mismatches between market participants. The Argentine government continues to intervene in this sector, including granting temporary margin increases, proposing a new social tariff regime for residents of poverty-stricken areas, creating specific charges to raise funds that are transferred to government-managed trust funds that finance investments in generation and distribution infrastructure (such as the Fondo de Inversiones Necesarias que Permitan Incrementar la Oferta de Energía Eléctrica en el Mercado Eléctrico Mayorista (Fund for Investments Required to Increase Electricity Supply in the Wholesale Electricity Market, or FONINVEMEM)) and imposing obligations on electricity companies to make certain investments in their respective areas. We cannot make assurances that these or other measures that may be adopted by the Argentine government will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations or on the market value of our shares and ADSs or that the Argentine government will not adopt emergency legislation similar to the Emergency Law, or other similar resolutions, in the future that may further increase our regulatory obligations, including increased taxes, unfavorable alterations to our tariff structures and other regulatory obligations, compliance with which would increase our costs and have a direct negative impact on our results of operations and cause the market value of our ADSs to decline. 14 Table of Contents Electricity distributors, generators and transmitters were adversely affected by the emergency measures adopted during the economic crisis of 2001 and 2002, many of which still remain in effect and have a severe negative impact on such businesses Distribution and transmission tariffs include a regulated margin that is intended to cover the costs of distribution or transmission, as applicable, and provide an adequate return. Generators, which mostly depend on the sales made to the spot market (the market set by supply and demand of energy available for immediate delivery), used to have stable prices and were able to reinvest their profits to become more efficient and achieve better margins. Under the Convertibility regime, distribution and transmission tariffs and electricity spot prices were denominated in U.S. Dollars and distribution and transmission margins were adjusted periodically to reflect variations in U.S. inflation indexes. Pursuant to the Emergency Law, in January 2002 the Argentine government froze all distribution and transmission margins, revoked all margin adjustment provisions in distribution and transmission concessions, converted distribution and transmission tariffs into Pesos at a rate of Ps. 1.00 per U.S. $1.00 and implemented price caps for sales of electricity to the spot market that in some cases were below costs of production. These measures, coupled with the effect of high inflation and the devaluation of the Peso, led to a decline in revenues in real terms and an increase of costs in real terms that could no longer be recovered through margin adjustments or market price-setting mechanisms. This situation, in turn, led companies in the sector to suspend payments on their financial debt (which continued to be denominated in U.S. Dollars), which effectively prevented these companies from obtaining further financing in the domestic or international credit markets. Although the Argentine government has recently granted temporary relief to certain companies in the electricity sector, including a temporary increase in transmission and distribution margins, the principal electricity companies are currently involved in discussions with the Argentine government on permanent measures needed to adapt the current regulatory framework to the current economic situation of the energy sector. We cannot assure you that these measures will be adopted or implemented or that, if adopted, they will be sufficient to address the structural problems created for our company by the policies adopted during the 2001 economic crisis and in its aftermath, including the negative impact on revenues created by the limitations we face in pricing as a result of the current tariff structure. Electricity demand has grown significantly in recent periods and may be affected by recent or future tariff increases, which could lead electricity companies, such as us, to record lower revenues During the 2001 economic crisis, electricity demand in Argentina decreased due to the decline in the overall level of economic activity and the deterioration in the ability of many consumers to pay their electricity bills. Despite the decline in electricity demand registered in 2009, in the years following the economic crisis of 2001, electricity demand has experienced significant growth, increasing an estimated average of approximately 5.1% per annum from 2003 through 2010. This increase in demand reflects renewed economic growth in Argentina and the relative low cost, in real terms, of electricity to consumers due to the freeze of margins and the elimination of the inflation adjustment provisions in distribution concessions coupled with the devaluation of the Peso and inflation. The executive branch of the Argentine government recently granted temporary increases in transmission and distribution margins, and transmission and distribution companies are currently negotiating further increases and adjustments to their tariff schemes with the Argentine government. Although the recent increases in electricity transmission and distribution margins, which increased the cost of electricity to residential customers, have not had a significant negative effect on demand, we cannot make any assurances that these increases or any future increases in the relative cost of electricity (including increases on tariffs for residential users) will not have a material adverse effect on electricity demand or a decline in collections from customers which, in turn, may lead electricity companies, such as us, to record lower revenues and results of operations than currently anticipated, and may have a material adverse effect on the market value of the ADSs. 15 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Company We operate a material portion of our business pursuant to public concessions granted by the Argentine government, the revocation or termination of which would have a material adverse effect on our business We conduct our hydroelectric generation, transmission and distribution businesses pursuant to public concessions granted by the Argentine government. These concessions contain several requirements regarding the operation of those businesses and compliance with laws and regulations. Compliance with our obligations under our concessions is typically secured by a pledge of our shares in the concessionaires in favor of the Argentine government. Accordingly, upon the occurrence of specified events of default under these concessions, the Argentine government would be entitled to foreclose on its pledge of the concessionaire and sell our shares in that concessionaire to a third party. Such sale would have a severe negative impact on our ability to operate a material portion of our business, and as a result, our results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Finally, our concessions also generally provide for termination in the case of insolvency or bankruptcy of the concessionaire. If any of our concessions are terminated or if the Argentine government forecloses its pledge over the shares we own in any of our concessionaire companies, such companies could not continue to operate as a going concern, and in turn our consolidated results of operations would be materially adversely affected and the market value of our shares and ADSs could decline. We employ a largely unionized labor force and could be subject to organized labor actions, including work stoppages that could have a material adverse effect on our business The majority of the employees in the electricity sector are affiliated with labor unions. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 71.6% of our employees were union members. Although our relations with unions are currently stable, we cannot assure you that our operating subsidiaries will not experience work disruptions or stoppages in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and revenues, especially in light of the social tensions generated in Argentina by the current economic crisis. In addition, our collective bargaining agreements generally expire after a one-year term. We have completed salary negotiations for 2010, and due to inflationary pressures, we have reopened negotiations during the first months of 2011 at some of our subsidiaries. We cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate new collective bargaining agreements on the same terms as those currently in effect, or that we will not be subject to strikes or work stoppages that could have material adverse effects on our operations and consequently on our financial results and the market value of our ADSs, before or during any negotiation process. In the event of an accident or event not covered by our insurance, we could face significant losses that could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations We carry insurance that is consistent with industry standards in each of our different business segments. See “