RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Argentina General We are a stock corporation (sociedad anónima) incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Argentina and substantially all of our revenues are earned in Argentina and substantially all of our operations, facilities, and customers are located in Argentina. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations depend to a significant extent on macroeconomic, regulatory and political and financial conditions prevailing in Argentina, including growth, inflation rates, currency exchange rates, interest rates, and other local, regional and international events and conditions that may affect Argentina in any manner. For example, slower economic growth or economic recession could lead to a decreased demand for electricity in the service areas in which our subsidiaries operate or a decline in the purchasing power of our customers, which, in turn, could lead to a decrease in collection rates from our customers or increased energy losses due to illegal use of our services. Actions of the Argentine Government concerning the economy, including decisions with respect to inflation, interest rates, price controls, foreign exchange controls and taxes, have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on private sector entities, including us. For example, during the Argentine economic crisis of 2001, the Argentine Government froze electricity distribution margins and caused the pesification of our tariffs, which had a materially adverse effect on our business and financial condition and led us to suspend payments on our financial debt at the time. We cannot assure you that the Argentine Government will not adopt other policies that could adversely affect the Argentine economy or our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that future economic, regulatory, social and political developments in Argentina will not impair our businesses, financial condition, or results of operations or cause the market value of our ADSs to decline. The global financial crisis and unfavorable credit and market conditions that commenced in 2007 may negatively affect our liquidity, customers, business, and results of operations The ongoing effects of the global credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, an impact that is likely to be more severe on an emerging market economy, such as Argentina. The effect of this economic crisis on our customers and on us cannot be predicted. Weak economic conditions could lead to reduced demand or lower prices for energy, which could have a negative effect on our revenues. Economic factors such as unemployment, inflation levels and the availability of credit could also have a material adverse effect on demand for energy and therefore on our financial condition and operating results. The financial and economic situation may also have a negative impact on third parties with whom we do, or may do, business. In addition, our ability to access credit or capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would need financing, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. For these reasons, any of the foregoing factors or a combination of these factors could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and cause the market value of our ADSs to decline. Argentina’s economic recovery since the 2001 economic crisis may not be sustainable in light of current economic conditions, and any significant decline could adversely affect our financial condition During 2001 and 2002, Argentina went through a period of severe political, economic and social crisis. Although the economy has recovered significantly since the 2001 crisis, uncertainty remains as to the sustainability of economic growth and stability. After a significant slowdown in the Argentine economy in 2009, which started in the last quarter of 2008 and continued into much of 2009 (impacted by the largest global crisis in decades and negative domestic factors), the Argentine economy experienced a growth of about 0.9% and 9.2% during 2009 and 2010, respectively, according to official public estimates. Similarly, in the first semester of 2011, the Argentine economy registered a growth of 8.5%. However, uncertainty remains about the sustainability of this growth. Sustainable economic growth is dependent on a variety of factors, including international demand for Argentine exports, the stability and competitiveness of the Argentine Peso against foreign currencies, confidence among consumers and foreign and domestic investors and a stable rate of inflation. 11 The Argentine economy remains fragile, as reflected by the following economic conditions: · unemployment remains high; · the availability of long-term credit is scarce; · investment as a percentage of GDP remains too low to sustain the growth rate of recent years; · fiscal surplus shows a steady decline, with risk of becoming a fiscal deficit in the near term; · public debt payments have increased (in line with post-default payment terms ) while international financing remains limited; · inflation has accelerated recently and threatens to continue at levels that risk economic stability; · the regulatory environment continues to be uncertain; · the recovery has depended to some extent on high commodity prices which, despite having a favorable long-term trend, are volatile in the short-term and beyond the control of the Argentine Government; and · the trade balance surplus (and the fiscal surplus, to a lesser extent) is largely dependant on the production of grains and soybeans, such that the risk to economic stability is magnified by the possibility of a new major drought affecting these crops (as was the case in 2008 and 2009). As in the recent past, Argentina’s economy may be adversely affected if political and social pressures inhibit the implementation by the Argentine Government of policies designed to maintain price stability, generate growth and enhance consumer and investor confidence. This, in turn, could lead to decreased demand for the services provided by our subsidiaries as well as a decrease in collection rates from customers and increased energy losses due to illegal use of the services provided by our businesses, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, or cause the market value of our ADSs to decline. Furthermore, the Argentine Government could respond to a lack of economic growth or stability by adopting measures that affect private sector enterprises, as it has done in the past, including the tariff restrictions imposed on public utility companies such as several of our subsidiaries. Given that public finances are increasingly tight, the government has decided to revise the subsidy policies, particularly those related to energy, electricity and gas, water and public transportation. These new policies would not have an impact on companies’ revenues but could affect the timing on the revision of the tariff process, generate a strong negative impact on economic activity and an increase in prices, because they occur in a context of capital flight, high interest rates and international global financial crisis. We cannot assure you that a decline in economic growth or increased economic instability, developments over which we have no control, would not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations or would not have a negative impact on the market value of our ADSs. The impact of inflation in Argentina on the costs of our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations Inflation has, in the past, materially undermined the Argentine economy and the Argentine Government’s ability to create conditions that permit growth. According to data published by the Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Censos (National Statistics and Census Institute or INDEC), the rate of inflation reached 9.5% in 2011, 10.9% in 2010 and 7.7% in 2009. The Argentine Government has implemented programs to control inflation and monitor prices for essential goods and services, including price support arrangements agreed between the Argentine Government and private sector companies in several industries and markets. 12 A return to a high inflation environment would undermine Argentina’s foreign competitiveness by diluting the effects of the Argentine Peso devaluation, negatively impact the level of economic activity and employment and undermine confidence in Argentina´s banking system, which could further limit the availability of domestic and international credit to businesses. In turn, a portion of the Argentine debt is adjusted by the Coeficiente de Estabilización de Referencia (Stabilization Coefficient, or “CER”), a currency index, that is strongly related to inflation. Therefore, any significant increase in inflation would cause an increase in the Argentine external debt and consequently in Argentina’s financial obligations, which could exacerbate the stress on the Argentine economy. A high inflation environment could also temporarily undermine our results of operations as a result of delay in our ability to, or our inability, to adjust our tariffs accordingly and could adversely affect our ability to finance the working capital needs of our businesses on favorable terms, and adversely affect our results of operations and cause the market value of our ADSs to decline. The credibility of several Argentine economic indices has been called into question, which may lead to a lack of confidence in the Argentine economy and may in turn limit our ability to access the credit and capital markets In January 2007, INDEC modified its methodology used to calculate the consumer price index (CPI), which is calculated as the monthly average of a weighted basket of consumer goods and services that reflects the pattern of consumption of Argentine households. Further, at the time that INDEC adopted this change in methodology, the Argentine Government also replaced certain key personnel at INDEC. The alleged governmental interference prompted complaints from the technical staff at INDEC, which, in turn, has led to the initiation of several judicial investigations involving members of the Argentine Government aimed at determining whether there was a breach of classified statistical information relating to the collection of data used in the calculation of the CPI. These events have affected the credibility of the CPI index published by INDEC, as well as other indexes published by INDEC the calculation of which are based on the CPI, including poverty rates, the unemployment rates and the calculation of the GDP, among others. As a result, the inflation rate of Argentina and the other rates calculated by INDEC could be higher than as indicated in official reports. The International Monetary Fund is currently providing technical assistance to the Argentine Government to improve the calculation and collection of inflation data. If these investigations result in a finding that the methodologies used to calculate the CPI or other INDEC indexes derived from the CPI were manipulated by the Argentine Government, or if it is determined that it is necessary to correct the CPI and the other INDEC indexes derived from the CPI as a result of the methodology used by INDEC, there could be a significant decrease in confidence in the Argentine economy. Given the limited credit available to emerging market nations as a result of the global economic crisis, our ability to access credit in the capital markets could be limited by the uncertainty relating to the inaccuracy of the economic indexes and rates in question which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions and cause the market value of our ADSs and common shares to decline. Argentina’s ability to obtain financing from international markets is limited, which may impair its ability to implement reforms and foster economic growth, and consequently, may affect our business, results of operations and prospects for growth In 2005, Argentina restructured part of its sovereign debt that had been in default since the end of 2001. The Argentine Government announced that as a result of this restructuring, it had approximately U.S. $129.2 billion in total gross public debt as of December 31, 2005. Certain bondholders that did not participate in that restructuring, mainly from the United States, Italy and Germany, have filed legal actions against Argentina to collect on the defaulted bonds. Many of these proceedings are still pending as of this date and holdout creditors may initiate new suits in the future. On January 3, 2006, Argentina repaid in full its debt of approximately U.S. $9.8 billion with the International Monetary Fund. In September 2008, Argentina announced its intention to cancel its external public debt to Paris Club creditor nations using reserves of the Central Bank in an amount equal to approximately U.S. $6.5 billion. However, as of the date of this annual report, the Argentine Government has not yet cancelled such debt. Indeed, negotiations in this respect remain stagnant. If no agreement with the Paris Club creditor nations is reached, financing from multilateral financial institutions may be limited or not available, which could adversely affect economic growth in Argentina and Argentina’s public finances. 13 Certain groups of holders that did not participate in the 2005 restructuring have filed claims against Argentina and it is possible that new claims will be filed in the future. In addition, foreign shareholders of several Argentine companies have filed claims before the ICSID alleging that certain government measures adopted during the country’s 2001 crisis were inconsistent with the fair and equitable treatment standards set forth in various bilateral investment treaties to which Argentina is a party. Since May 2005, the ICSID tribunals have issued several awards against Argentina. Only the cases “CMS v. Argentina”, “Azurix v. Argentina” and “Vivendi v. Argentina” are currently final and unappealable, which decisions required that the Argentine Government pay U.S. $133.2 million, U.S. $165.2 million and U.S. $105 million, respectively. As of the date of this annual report, Argentina has not yet paid the amounts referred to above. On April 30, 2010, Argentina launched a new debt exchange to holders of the securities issued in the 2005 debt exchange and to holders of the securities that were eligible to participate in the 2005 debt exchange (other than Brady bonds) to exchange such debt for new securities and, in certain cases, a cash payment. As a result of the 2005 and 2010 exchange offers, Argentina restructured over 91% of the defaulted debt eligible for the 2005 and 2010 exchange offers. The creditors who did not participate in the 2005 or 2010 exchange offers may continue with legal action against Argentina for the recovery of debt, which could adversely affect Argentina’s access to the international capital markets. Argentina’s past default and its failure to restructure completely its remaining sovereign debt and fully negotiate with the holdout creditors may limit Argentina’s ability to reenter the international capital markets. Litigation initiated by holdout creditors as well as ICSID claims have resulted and may continue to result in judgments and awards against the Argentine Government which, if not paid, could prevent Argentina from obtaining credit from multilateral organizations. Judgment creditors have sought and may continue to seek to attach or enjoin assets of Argentina. In addition, various creditors have organized themselves into associations to engage in lobbying and public relations concerning Argentina’s default on its public indebtedness. Such groups have over the years unsuccessfully urged passage of federal and New York state legislation directed at Argentina’s defaulted debt and aimed at limiting Argentina’s access to the U.S. capital markets. Although neither the United States Congress nor the New York state legislature has adopted such legislation, we can make no assurance that legislation or other political actions designed to limit Argentina’s access to capital markets will not take effect. In April 2010, a Court of New York granted an attachment over reserves of the Argentine Central Bank in the United States requested by creditors of Argentina on the theory that the Central Bank was its alter ego. On July 2011, an appeals court reversed that ruling, stating that the assets of the Central Bank were protected by law. Plaintiffs have petitioned the United States Supreme Court to review the appeals court decision and, as of the date of this annual report, the United States Supreme Court has not ruled if it will hear the case. As a result of Argentina’s default and the events that have followed it, the government may not have the financial resources necessary to implement reforms and foster economic growth, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the country’s economy and, consequently, our businesses and results of operations. Furthermore, Argentina’s inability to obtain credit in international markets could have a direct impact on our own ability to access international credit markets to finance our operations and growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions and cause the market value of our ADSs and common shares to decline. Significant fluctuations in the value of the Argentine Peso could adversely affect the Argentine economy, which could, in turn adversely affect our results of operations The devaluation of the Argentine Peso in 2002 (a 238% decline against the U.S. Dollar) had a far-reaching negative impact on the financial condition of many businesses and individuals. The devaluation of the Argentine Peso had a negative impact on the ability of Argentine businesses to honor their foreign currency-denominated debt, led to very high inflation initially, significantly reduced real wages, had a negative impact on businesses whose success is dependent on domestic market demand, including public utilities and the financial industry, and adversely affected the Argentine Government’s ability to honor its foreign debt obligations. If the Argentine Peso devalues significantly, the negative effects on the Argentine economy could have adverse consequences to our businesses, our results of operations and the market value of our ADSs. Moreover, it would likely result in a decline in the value of our shares and ADSs as measured in U.S. Dollars. 14 On the other hand, a substantial increase in the value of the Argentine Peso against the U.S. Dollar also presents risks for the Argentine economy, including, a reduction in exports. Any such increase could have a negative effect on economic growth and employment, reduce the Argentine public sector’s revenues from tax collection in real terms, and have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and the market value of our ADSs as a result of the weakening of the Argentine economy in general. Measures taken by the Argentine Government to address social unrest may adversely affect the Argentine economy and our business and results of operations During the economic crisis in 2001 and 2002, Argentina experienced social and political turmoil, including civil unrest, riots, looting, nationwide protests, strikes and street demonstrations. Despite the economic recovery and relative stability since 2002, social and political tensions and high levels of poverty and unemployment continue. Future government policies to preempt, or respond to, social unrest may include expropriation, nationalization, forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, suspension of the enforcement of creditors’ rights and shareholders’ rights, new taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims, and changes in laws, regulations and policies affecting foreign trade and investment. These policies or significant protests resulting therefore could destabilize the country and adversely and materially affect the Argentine economy. In March 2008, the Argentine Ministry of Economy and Production announced the adoption of new taxes on exports of a number of agricultural products. The taxes were to be calculated at incremental rates as the price for the exported products increased, and represented a significant increase in taxes on exports by the agricultural sector in Argentina. The adoption of these taxes met significant opposition from various political and economic groups with ties to the Argentine agricultural sector, including strikes by agricultural producers around the country, roadblocks to prevent the circulation of agricultural goods within Argentina and massive demonstrations in the City of Buenos Aires and other major Argentine cities. Although the Argentine Congress did not pass any of these measures, we cannot assure you that the Argentine Government will not seek to reintroduce new export taxes or adopt other similar measures Further social unrest caused by such measures could adversely affect the Argentine economy and could cause increased damages to our networks as a result of protesters or illicit activity, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations and the market value of our shares and ADSs. Certain measures taken by the Argentine Government may adversely affect the Argentine economy and, as a result, our business and results of operations On April 17, 2012 the Argentine Government sent a bill to Congress to expropriate 51% of the shares of YPF owned by the Spanish energy company, Repsol YPF, who currently controls most of the shares of YPF. Under the terms of the bill sent to Congress, out of the 51% of total shares to be expropriated, 51% of such shares will be held by the Argentine Government and the remaining 49% will be held by oil-producing Argentine Provinces. Also, the bill states that hydrocarbon activities (including, exploitation, industrialization, transportation and commercialization) in the territory of Argentina qualify as a "national public interest". The bill, entitled "Hydrocarbon Sovereignty of Argentina", provides that the primary objective is to achieve Argentina´s self-sufficiency capacity in oil and gas supply. Additionally, pursuant to Decree 530/12 of the National Executive Power, the Argentine Government also ordered the intervention of YPF for 30 days and appointed Messrs. Julio de Vido as interventor of YPF. We cannot assure you that these or other measures that may be adopted by the Argentine Government will not have a material adverse effect in the Argentine economy and, as a consequence, adversely affect our financial condition, our results of operations and the market value of our shares and ADSs. Exchange controls and restrictions on capital inflow and outflow may continue to limit the availability of international credit and could threaten the financial system and lead to renewed political and social tensions, adversely affecting the Argentine economy, and, as a result, our business In 2001 and 2002, Argentina experienced a massive withdrawal of deposits from the Argentine financial system in a short period of time, which precipitated a liquidity crisis within the Argentine financial system and prompted the Argentine Government to impose exchange controls and restrictions on the ability of depositors to withdraw their deposits and send funds abroad in an attempt to prevent capital flight and further depreciation of the Argentine Peso. Although some of these restrictions have been suspended or terminated, or substantially relaxed, in June 2005 the Argentine Government adopted various rules and regulations that established new restrictive controls on capital inflows into the country, including a requirement that for certain funds remitted into Argentina an amount equal to 30% of the funds must be deposited into an account with a local financial institution as a U.S. Dollar deposit for a one-year period without any accrual of interest, benefit or other use as collateral for any transaction. Since October 2011, the Argentine Government has strengthened certain restrictions on the sale of foreign currency to non residents in connection with the repatriation of direct investments, and on the creation of foreign assets belonging to residents. See “Exchange Rates” and “Item 10. Exchange Controls.” The Argentine Government could impose new exchange controls or restrictions on the movement of capital and take other measures that could limit our ability to access the international capital markets and impair our ability to make interest or principal payments abroad or payments. Argentina may re-impose exchange controls, transfer restrictions or other measures in the future in response to capital flight or a significant depreciation of the Peso. 15 In the event of a future shock, such as the failure of one or more banks or a crisis in depositor confidence, the Argentine Government could impose further exchange controls or transfer restrictions and take other measures that could lead to renewed political and social tensions and undermine the Argentine Government’s public finances, which could adversely affect Argentina’s economy and prospects for economic growth, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business and results of operations and the market value of our shares and ADSs. In addition, the Argentine Government or the Central Bank may reenact certain restrictions on the transfers of funds abroad, impairing our ability to make dividend payments to holders of the ADSs, which may adversely affect the market value of our ADSs. As of the date of this annual report, however, the transfer of funds abroad to pay dividends is permitted to the extent such dividend payments are made in connection with audited financial statements approved by a shareholders’ meeting. The nationalization of Argentina’s private pension funds caused an adverse effect in the Argentine capital markets and increased the Argentine Government’s interest in certain stock exchange listed companies, such that the Argentine Government became a significant shareholder of such companies. In recent years a significant portion of the local demand for securities of Argentine companies came from the Argentine private pension funds. In response to the global economic crisis, in December 2008, by means of Argentine Law No. 26,425, the Argentine Congress unified the Argentine pension and retirement system into a system publicly administered by the Administración Nacional de la Seguridad Social (National Social Security Agency, or “ANSES”), eliminating the pension and retirement system previously administered by private managers. In accordance with the new law, private pension managers transferred all of the assets administered by them under the pension and retirement system to the ANSES. With the nationalization of Argentina’s private pension funds, the local capital markets decreased in size and became substantially concentrated. In addition, the Argentine Government became a significant shareholder in many of the country’s public companies. In April 2011, the Argentine Government lifted certain restrictions pursuant to which ANSES was prevented from exercising more than 5% of its voting rights in any company (whichever the equity interest held by ANSES in such stock exchange listed companies). ANSES has publicly stated that it intends to exercise its voting rights in excess of such 5% limit in order to appoint directors in different stock exchange listed companies in which it holds an interest exceeding 5%. ANSES’ interests may differ from those of other investors, and consequently, if ANSES acquires a more prevailing role in any Argentine listed companies in which it owns shares, ANSES’ actions might have an adverse effect on such companies and, to a certain extent, on domestic capital markets. As of the date of this report ANSES owns shares of the capital stock of the Company and of our subsidiaries Edenor, Transener and EMDERSA. The Argentine Government has stated its intention to exert a stronger influence on the operation of stock exchange listed companies. We cannot assure you that these or other similar actions taken by the Argentine Government will not have an adverse effect on the Argentine economy and consequently on our financial condition and results of operations. The Argentine economy could be adversely affected by economic developments in other global markets Argentine financial and securities markets are influenced, to varying degrees, by economic and financial conditions in other markets. Although economic conditions can vary from country to country, investors’ perception of the events occurring in one country may substantially affect capital flows to other countries and the value of securities in other countries, including Argentina. The Argentine economy was adversely impacted by the political and economic events that occurred in several emerging economies in the 1990s, including those in Mexico in 1994, the collapse of several Asian economies between 1997 and 1998, the economic crisis in Russia in 1998 and the Brazilian devaluation of its currency in January 1999. In addition, Argentina may be affected by events in the economies of its major regional trading partners, including, for example, currency devaluations caused by the global economic crisis that continue to affect it. 16 Also, the Argentine economy might be affected by occurring events in developed countries that are its commercial partners or which may have an impact on the global economy. In addition, the global financial crisis that commenced in the last quarter of 2008 has affected and may continue to negatively affect the economies of several countries around the world including Argentina and certain of its trading partners. Developed economies like the United States have sustained some of the most severe effects while some emerging economies like that of China and Brazil have suffered comparatively milder effects. More recently, several European countries, such as Ireland, Greece, Portugal, Spain, the United Kingdom and Italy, have revealed significant macroeconomic imbalances. In addition, on August 5, 2011, Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC downgraded the debt instruments issued by the United States and on January 13, 2012, Standard & Poor’s Rating Services downgraded the instruments of nine European countries including France and Italy. Financial markets have reacted adversely curtailing the ability of certain of these countries to refinance their outstanding debt. The impact of this crisis on Argentina could include a reduction in exports and foreign direct investment, a decline in national tax revenues and an inability to access international capital markets, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and the market value of our ADSs. The realization of any or all of these risk factors, as well as events that may arise in the main regional partners, including members of Mercosur, could have a material adverse effect on the Argentine economy and, indirectly, on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market value of our ADSs. The actions taken by the Argentine Government to reduce imports may affect our ability to purchase significant capital goods. The Argentine Government has recently adopted some initiatives designed to limit the import of goods in order to prevent further deterioration of the Argentine balance of trade. The restriction of imports may limit our ability to purchase capital goods that are necessary for our operations, which may, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to the Argentine Electricity and Oil and Gas Sectors The Argentine Government has intervened in the electricity sector in the past, and is likely to continue intervening To address the Argentine economic crisis in 2001 and 2002, the Argentine Government adopted the Public Emergency Law and other regulations, which made a number of material changes to the regulatory framework applicable to the electricity sector. These changes severely affected electricity generation, distribution and transmission companies and included the freezing if distributing nominal margins, the revocation of adjustment and inflation indexation mechanisms of tariffs, a limitation on electricity distribution companies from passing on to consumer increases in costs due to regulatory charges and a new price-setting mechanism in the wholesale electricity market (“WEM”) which had a significant impact on electricity generators and generated substantial price differences within the market. The Argentine Government continues to intervene in this sector, including by granting temporary nominal margin increases, proposing a new social tariff regime for residents of poverty-stricken areas, creating specific charges to raise funds that are transferred to government-managed trust funds that finance investments in generation and distribution infrastructure and mandating investments for the construction of new generation plants and the expansion of existing transmission and distribution networks. Furthermore, on November 15, 2011, the Secretary of Energy issued Resolution 8752, which provided that any approval by the provincial governments of increases to the electricity tariffs applicable to end-users as of November 1, 2011 will trigger a proportionate decrease in the federal subsidy available to that end-user in connection with the purchase of electricity. Since the issuance of Resolution 8752, certain provincial governments have initiated legal proceedings to challenge the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Energy to issue Resolution 8752, particularly because of the potential chilling effect that this regulation may have on the ability of the provincial governments to increase electricity tariffs. These proceedings have not been resolved as of the date of this annual report. 17 We cannot assure you that these or other measures that may be adopted by the Argentine Government will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations or on the market value of our shares and ADSs or that the Argentine Government will not adopt emergency legislation similar to the Public Emergency Law, or other similar resolutions, in the future that may further increase our regulatory obligations, including increased taxes, unfavorable alterations to our tariff structures and other regulatory obligations, compliance with which would increase our costs and have a direct negative impact on our results of operations and cause the market value of our ADSs to decline. Electricity distributors, generators and transmitters were severely affected by the emergency measures adopted during the economic crisis, many of which remain in effect Distribution and transmission tariffs include a regulated margin that is intended to cover the costs of distribution or transmission, as applicable, and provide an adequate return. Generators, which mostly depend on the sales made to the spot market (the market set by supply and demand of energy available for immediate delivery), used to have stable prices and were able to reinvest their profits to become more efficient and achieve better margins. Under the Convertibility regime, distribution and transmission tariffs and electricity spot prices were calculated in U.S. Dollars and distribution and transmission margins were adjusted periodically to reflect variations in U.S. inflation indexes. In January 2002, pursuant to the Public Emergency Law, which authorized the Argentine Government to renegotiate its public utility contracts, provisions requiring price adjustments based on foreign inflation indexes and all other indexation mechanisms in public utility services agreements between the Argentine Government or any provincial government and the providers of those services (including us) were revoked, and the tariffs for the provision of such services were frozen and converted from their original U.S. Dollar values to Argentine Pesos at a rate of Ps.1.00 per U.S.$1.00. These measures, coupled with the effect of high inflation and the devaluation of the Peso, led to a decline in revenues in real terms and an increase of costs in real terms, which could no longer be recovered through margin adjustments or market price-setting mechanisms. This situation, in turn, led many public utility companies to suspend payments on their financial debt (which continued to be denominated in U.S. Dollars despite the pesification of revenues), effectively preventing these companies from obtaining further financing in the domestic or international credit markets and making additional investments. Although the Argentine Government has recently granted temporary relief to certain companies in the electricity sector, including a temporary increase in transmission and distribution margins, the principal electricity companies are currently involved in discussions with the regulators on additional permanent measures needed to adapt the current tariff scheme to the post-crisis situation of the energy sector. We cannot assure you that these measures will be adopted or implemented or that, if adopted, they will be sufficient to address the structural problems created for our company by economic crisis and in its aftermath, including the negative impact on revenues created by the limitations we face in pricing as a result of the current tariff structure. Electricity demand may be affected by tariff increases, which could lead electricity companies, like us, to record lower revenues During the 2001 and 2002 economic crisis, electricity demand in Argentina decreased due to the decline in the overall level of economic activity and the deterioration in the ability of many consumers to pay their electricity bills. In the years following the 2001 and 2002 economic crisis, electricity demand experienced significant growth, increasing at an estimated average of approximately 5.0% per annum from 2003 through 2011. This increase in demand reflects the relative low cost, in real terms, of electricity to consumers due to the freeze of margins and the elimination of the inflation adjustment provisions in distribution concessions coupled with the devaluation of the Peso and inflation. The executive branch of the Argentine Government granted temporary increases in transmission and distribution margins, and transmission and distribution companies are currently negotiating further increases and adjustments to their tariff schemes with the Argentine Government. Although the increases in electricity transmission and distribution margins, which increased the cost of electricity to residential customers, have not had a significant negative effect on demand, we cannot make any assurances that these increases or any future increases in the relative cost of electricity will not have a material adverse effect on electricity demand or a decline in collections from customers. Further, in November 2011, the Argentine Government announced a cut in subsidies for electricity granted to certain customers that are presumably in a position to face its real cost. These measures are currently in an early stage of implementation and we cannot ascertain as of the date of this report what the effect on our revenues could be. However, we cannot assure you that these measures or any future measures (including increases on tariffs for residential users) will not lead electricity companies, like us, to record lower revenues and results of operations than currently anticipated, which may, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the market value of the ADSs. 18 If the demand for energy is increased suddenly, current levels of power generation and the difficulty in increasing the capacity of transmission and distribution companies in a short or medium term, could adversely affect the Company, which in turn could result in customer complaints and substantial fines imposed on such companies In recent years, the increase in electricity demand was greater than the structural increase generation capacity, and transmission and distribution of electricity, which led, sometimes, to power shortages and disruptions. While current demand for electricity has decreased because of, among other things, a lower level of activity linked to the global economic crisis, a sustained increase in electricity demand could generate future shortages. Additionally, according to Argentine law, distribution companies are responsible before their customers for any interruption in the supply of electricity. Consequently, customer can make their claims to the distribution companies. Also, distribution companies can suffer fines and penalties for interruptions caused by power outages, unless the respective Argentine authorities determine that power outages are caused by force majeure events. As of the date of this annual report, Argentine authorities have not ruled on the conditions under which outages may constitute a case of force majeure. In the past, however, Argentine authorities have adopted a restrictive view of the concept of force majeure and have acknowledged its existence in limited circumstances, such as internal defects in the customer's location or extraordinary weather events (such as severe storms, tornadoes or floods). We cannot assure that we will not experience a lack in the supply of energy that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cause the market value of our ADSs and shares to decline. Oil and Gas Companies have recently been affected by certain measures taken by the Argentine Government and may be further affected by additional changes in their regulatory framework Since December 2011, the Argentine Government has adopted a number of measures concerning repatriation of funds obtained as a result of exports of oil and gas and charges applicable to the production of liquid gas which have affected the business of oil and gas producers and manufacturers. Further changes in such regulations may increase the adverse effect of such measures on the business, revenues and operations of companies operating in the oil and gas sector, including companies in which we hold, or may hold in the future, equity interests, which may lead in turn to a material adverse effect on the market value of our ADSs. Argentine oil and gas production concessions and exploration permits are subject to certain conditions and may not be renewed or could be revoked The Hydrocarbons Law N° 17,319, the “Hydrocarbons Law” provides for oil and gas concessions to remain in effect for 25 years as from the date of their award, and further provides for the concession term to be extended for up to 10 additional years, subject to terms and conditions approved by the grantor at the time of the extension. The authority to extend the terms of current and new permits, concessions and contracts has been vested with the government of the province in which the relevant area is located (and the Argentine Government in respect of offshore areas beyond 12 nautical miles). In order to be eligible for the extension, any concessionaire and permit holder must have complied with its obligations under the Hydrocarbons Law and the terms of the particular concession or permit, including evidence of payment of taxes and royalties, the supply of the necessary technology, equipment and labor force and compliance with various environmental, investment and development obligations. Under the Hydrocarbons Law, non-compliance with these obligations and standards may also result in the imposition of fines and in the case of material breaches, following the expiration of applicable cure periods, the revocation of the concession or permit. The Argentine Government and a number of provincial governments have recently revoked certain of YPF S.A.´s and Petrobras Argentina S.A.´s concessions. Petrolera Pampa has formed partnerships in projects with proved gas reserves to be developed by major oil and gas companies, such as Apache Energía Argentina S.R.L and Petrobras Argentina S.A. and is currently negotiating agreements that involve potential oil and gas production with Petrolera Pampa as operator. See “