Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Sports Business Our Sports Business Faces Intense and Wide-Ranging Competition. The success of a sports business, like ours, is dependent upon the performance and/or popularity of its franchises. Our New York Knicks and New York Rangers franchises compete, in varying respects and degrees, with other live sporting events, and with sporting events delivered over television networks, the Internet, radio, online services, and other alternative sources. For example, our sports teams compete for attendance, viewership and advertising with a wide range of alternatives available in New York City. During some or all of the basketball and hockey seasons, our sports teams face competition, in varying respects and degrees, from professional baseball (including the New York Yankees and the New York Mets), professional football (including the New York Giants and the New York Jets) and each other. For fans who prefer the unique experience of NHL hockey, we must compete with two other hockey teams located in the New York metropolitan area (the New York Islanders and the New Jersey Devils) as well as, in varying respects and degrees, with other NHL hockey teams and the NHL itself. Similarly, for those fans attracted to the equally unique experience of NBA basketball, we must compete, in varying respects and degrees, with another NBA team located in the New York metropolitan area (the New Jersey Nets) as well as other NBA teams and the NBA itself. As a result of the large number of options available, we face strong competition for the New York sports fan. We must compete with these other sporting events, in varying respects and degrees, including on the basis of the quality of the teams we field, their success in the leagues in which they compete, our ability to provide an entertaining environment at our games and the prices we charge for tickets. Given the nature of sports, we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively, including with companies that may have greater resources than we have, and as a consequence our operating margins and market position could be reduced and the growth of our business inhibited. 24 Table of Contents Our Basketball and Hockey Decisions, Especially Those Concerning Player Selection and Salaries, Affect Our Financial Performance. Creating and maintaining our sports teams’ popularity and/or on-court and on-ice competitiveness is key to the success of our sports business. Accordingly, efforts to improve our revenues and income from period to period may be secondary to actions that management believes will generate long-term value. As with other sports teams, the competitive positions of our sports teams depends primarily on our ability to develop, obtain and retain talented players, for which we compete with other professional sports teams. Our efforts in this regard may include, among other things, trading for highly compensated players, signing draft picks, free agents or current players to new contracts, engaging in salary arbitration with existing players or terminating or waiving players. Any of these actions could increase expenses for a particular period, subject to salary cap restrictions contained in the respective leagues’ collective bargaining agreements. There can be no assurance that any actions taken by management to increase our long-term value will be successful. A significant factor in our ability to attract and retain talented players is player compensation. NBA and NHL player salaries have generally increased significantly through the 1990s and 2000s, and may continue to increase. Although the collective bargaining agreements between, respectively, the NBA and the National Basketball Players Association and the NHL and the NHL Players’ Association cap player salaries at a prescribed percentage of league-wide revenues, such provisions do not apply on a team-by-team basis and, accordingly, we may pay our players different aggregate salaries and a different proportion of our revenues than other NBA or NHL franchises. Future collective bargaining agreements may increase the percentage of league-wide revenues to which NBA or NHL players are entitled, which may further increase our costs. In addition, we may also be obligated to pay the NBA a luxury tax each year, the calculation of which is determined by a formula that takes into account the aggregate salaries paid to our NBA players. Significant increases in players’ salaries or NBA luxury tax payments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows if the increases are not offset by adequate increases in revenue. We have incurred significant charges in each of the last three years for costs associated with transactions relating to players on our sports teams for season-ending and career-ending injuries and for waivers and terminations of players and other team personnel, including team executives. These transactions can result in significant charges as the Company recognizes the estimated ultimate costs of these events in the period in which they occur, although amounts due to these individuals are generally paid over their remaining contract terms. These expenses add to the volatility of the results of our MSG Sports segment. The Actions of the Basketball and Hockey Leagues may Have a Material Effect on Our Businesses. The governing bodies of the NBA (including the WNBA) and the NHL have certain rights under certain circumstances to take actions that they deem to be in the best interests of their respective sports, which may not necessarily be consistent with maximizing our results of operations and which could affect the Knicks or the Rangers in ways that are different than the impact on other teams. Certain of these decisions by the NBA or the NHL could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. From time to time, we may disagree with or challenge actions the leagues take or the power and authority they assert. The following discussion highlights certain areas in which decisions of the NBA and the NHL could materially affect our businesses. The NBA and the NHL may assert control over certain matters, under certain circumstances, that may affect our revenues such as the national and international rights to telecast the games of league members, including the Knicks and the Rangers, licensing of the rights to produce and sell merchandise bearing the logos of our teams and the leagues, and the online activities of our teams. Changes to national and international telecast rights could impact the availability of games covered by our local telecast rights. The NBA and NHL have each entered into agreements regarding the national and international telecasts of NBA and NHL games. We receive a share equal to that of other teams in the respective leagues of the income the NBA and the NHL generate from these contracts, which expire from time to time. There can be no assurance that the NBA or the NHL will be able to renew these contracts following their expiration on terms as favorable to us as those in the current agreements or that we will continue to receive the same level of revenues in the future. The leagues have asserted control over certain other important decisions, under certain circumstances, such as the length and format of the playing season, including preseason and playoff schedules, the operating territories of the member teams, admission of new members, franchise relocations, labor relations with the players associations, collective bargaining, free agency, and luxury taxes and revenue sharing. Decisions on these matters, some or all of which are also subject to the terms of the relevant collective bargaining agreement, may materially affect our business. In addition, the NBA imposes a luxury tax and escrow system with respect to player salaries as well as a revenue assistance plan, and the NHL has also imposed a revenue sharing system. 25 Table of Contents The NBA and the NHL have imposed certain restrictions on the ability of owners to undertake some types of transactions in respect of teams, including a change in ownership, a relocation of a team and certain types of financing transactions. In certain instances, these restrictions could impair our ability to proceed with a transaction that is in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders if we were unable to obtain required league approvals in a timely manner or at all. The leagues impose certain rules that define, under certain circumstances, the territories in which we operate, including the markets in which we telecast games. Changes to these rules could materially adversely affect us. Each league’s governing body has imposed a number of rules, regulations, guidelines, bulletins, directives, policies and agreements upon its teams. Changes to these provisions may apply to our sports teams and their personnel, regardless of whether we agree or disagree with such changes, have voted against such changes or have challenged them through other means, and it is possible that any such changes could materially adversely affect our business to the extent they are ultimately determined to bind our teams. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” for a discussion of recent litigation between us and the NHL. The commissioners of each of the NBA and NHL assert significant authority to take certain actions on behalf of their respective leagues under certain circumstances. Decisions by the commissioners of the NBA and the NHL, including on the matters described above, may adversely affect our businesses. The leagues’ governing documents and our agreements with the leagues purport to limit the manner in which we may challenge decisions and actions by a league commissioner or the league itself. Injuries to Players on Our Sports Teams Could Hinder Our Success. To the degree that our financial results are dependent on our sports teams’ popularity and/or on-court and on-ice success, the likelihood of achieving such popularity or competitive success may, given the nature of sports, be substantially impacted by serious or untimely injuries to key players. Nearly all of our Knicks and Rangers players, including those with multi-year contracts, have partially or fully guaranteed contracts, meaning that (subject to the terms of the applicable player contract and collective bargaining agreement) each player may be entitled to receive his salary even if the player dies or is unable to play as a result of injury. These salaries represent significant financial commitments for our sports teams. We are generally insured against having to pay salaries in the event of a player’s death and have obtained disability insurance policies for substantially all of our material player contracts. In the event of injuries sustained resulting in lost services (as defined in the policies), the policies provide for payment to us of the majority of the player’s salary for the remaining term of the contract or until the player can resume play, in each case following a deductible number of missed games. The cost of such insurance has risen substantially, however, and it may not be available in certain circumstances or on terms that are commercially feasible. We may choose not to obtain (or may not be able to obtain) such insurance in some cases, and we may change coverage levels (or be unable to change coverage levels) in the future. If an injured player is not insured, we may be obligated to pay all of the injured player’s salary. In addition, player disability insurance policies do not cover any NBA luxury tax that we may be required to pay as a result of league rules and regulations and may exclude from coverage certain pre-existing medical conditions. For purposes of determining any NBA luxury tax, salary payable to an injured player is included in team salary, unless and until that player’s salary is removed from the team salary for purposes of calculating NBA luxury tax pursuant to the terms of the collective bargaining agreement. Replacement of an injured player may result in an increase in salary expense for us, subject to any applicable salary cap. 26 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Entertainment Business Our Entertainment Business Faces Intense and Wide-Ranging Competition. Our entertainment business competes, in certain respects and to varying degrees, with other leisure-time activities such as television, the Internet, radio, online services, motion picture theaters, Broadway shows, home video and other alternative sources of entertainment and information for total entertainment dollars in our marketplace. The success of our entertainment business is largely dependent on the continued success of our Radio City Christmas Spectacular, and, to a lesser extent, the availability of, and our venues’ ability to attract concerts, family shows and other events, competition for which is intense. For example, our Madison Square Garden complex (comprising The Garden and a theater within the complex currently known as The Theater at Madison Square Garden), Radio City Music Hall and the Beacon Theatre all compete with other entertainment venues in New York and elsewhere, such as the Nassau Coliseum, the Meadowlands Sports Complex, the IZOD Center and the Prudential Center. The Chicago Theatre and the Wang Theatre face similar competition from other venues in Chicago, Boston and elsewhere. Further, in order to maintain the competitive positions of The Garden and our theaters, we must invest on a continuous basis in state-of-the-art technology while maintaining a competitive pricing structure for events that may be held in our venues, many of which have alternative venue options available to them in New York and other cities. In addition, we invest a substantial amount in our Radio City Christmas Spectacular and in new productions, to continue to attract our audiences. We cannot assure you that such investments will generate revenues that are sufficient to justify our investment or even that exceed our expenses. The Success of Our Entertainment Business Depends on the Continued Popularity of Our Live Productions, Particularly the Radio City Christmas Spectacular. The financial results of our entertainment business are dependent on the popularity of our live productions with audiences in New York and, with respect to our touring productions, other cities throughout North America. In particular, our entertainment business depends on the continuing popularity of the Radio City Christmas Spectacular, which has historically made up a significant portion of the revenues of our entertainment business. Should the popularity of the Radio City Christmas Spectacular decline, our revenues from ticket sales, concession and merchandise sales would likely also decline, and we might not be able to replace that lost revenue with revenues from other sources. In addition, we have made a significant investment in the arena touring production of the Radio City Christmas Spectacular, and a decline in the popularity of the Radio City Christmas Spectacular franchise might mean that we are less able to recoup that investment. Our Strategy for Our Entertainment Business Includes the Development of New Live Productions and the Possible Addition of New Venues, Each of Which Could Require Making Considerable Investments for Which There Can be No Guarantee of Success. As part of our business strategy, we intend to develop new productions and live entertainment events, which may include expansions of our existing productions or relationships or the creation of entirely new live productions. Expansion of productions or the development of new productions could require significant upfront investment in sets, staging, creative processes, casting and advertising. To the extent that any efforts at expanding productions or creating new productions do not result in a viable live show, or to the extent that any such productions do not achieve expected levels of popularity among audiences, we may lose all or a portion of such investments. Our strategy also involves the possible addition of venues, including in additional major markets beyond New York, Chicago and Boston. Any such additions may involve acquiring control of existing venues or constructing new venues and could require significant investment. In pursuing such an expansion strategy, we will face risks, potentially including risks associated with the construction of new facilities, such as cost overruns and construction delays, risks associated with financing, such as the potential lack of availability of adequate financing to commence or complete an acquisition or development, risks associated with operating in new markets and the risk that we may lose all or a part of our investment in any additional venues. 27 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Media Business Our Media Business Faces Intense and Wide-Ranging Competition. Our media business competes, in certain respects and to varying degrees, for viewers and advertisers with other programming networks, pay-per-view, video on demand, and other content offered on cable television and other programming distribution systems. We also compete for viewers and advertisers with other television networks, radio, motion picture theaters, home video, the Internet, mobile media and other sources of information and entertainment and advertising services. Important competitive factors are the prices charged for programming, the quantity, quality (in particular, the on-court and on-ice performance of our sports teams as well as other teams whose rights we control) and the variety of the programming offered and the effectiveness of marketing efforts. The competitive environment in which our media business operates may be affected by technological developments. It is difficult to predict the future effect of technology on many of the factors affecting our competitive position. For example, data compression technology has made it possible for most programming distributors to increase their channel capacity, which may reduce the competition among programming networks and broadcasters for channel space. On the other hand, the addition of channel space could also increase competition for desired entertainment and sports programming and ultimately, for viewing by subscribers. As more channel space becomes available, the position of our programming networks in the most favorable tiers of these distributors would be an important goal. Additionally, video content delivered directly to viewers over the Internet competes with our programming networks for viewership. With respect to advertising services, factors affecting the degree and extent of competition include prices, reach, audience demographics and similar factors. Some of our competitors are large companies that have greater financial resources than us. The Success of Our Media Business Also Depends on Affiliation Fees, and on the Existence of Agreements with a Limited Number of Distributors for Our Programming. Our media business derives much of its revenues from affiliation fees paid by cable television operators (including cable television systems owned by Cablevision), satellite operators and other operators (which we collectively refer to as “Distributors”) that provide video service and sales of advertising. Increases in affiliation fee revenues result from a combination of changes in rates and changes in subscriber counts, factors that may be largely out of our control. Our success is also dependent upon the existence of agreements between our programming networks and Distributors. Existing affiliation agreements of our programming networks expire at various dates. Although we have historically been able to secure distribution of our programming networks, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew these affiliation agreements, or to obtain terms similar to our existing agreements in the event of a renewal. The loss of any of our significant Distributors could severely impact our business and results of operations. In addition, in some cases, if a Distributor is acquired, the affiliation agreement of the acquiring Distributor will govern following the acquisition. In those circumstances, the acquisition of a Distributor that is a party to one or more affiliation agreements with us on terms that are more favorable to us could materially adversely impact our business and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents We Derive Substantial Revenues From the Sale of Advertising Time and Those Revenues are Subject to a Number of Factors, Many of Which are Beyond Our Control. Our media business is dependent on advertising revenues, which, in turn, depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as the health of the economy in the markets our businesses serve and in the nation as a whole, general economic trends in the advertising industry, the popularity of our programming, the activities of our competitors, including increased competition from other forms of advertising-based media (such as newspapers, cable television, Internet and radio), consumer budgeting and buying patterns, and team performance. A continuing decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers’ spending priorities, which could cause our revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period. In addition, we cannot assure you that our programming will achieve favorable ratings. Our ratings depend partly upon unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, such as viewer preferences, competing programming and the availability of other entertainment activities. A shift in viewer preferences could cause our advertising revenues to decline as a result of changes to the ratings for our programming. Our Rights Agreements with Various Professional Sports Teams that We Do Not Own Have Varying Durations and Renewal Terms and We may be Unable to Renew Those Agreements on Acceptable Terms. In addition to carrying the games of the Knicks, Rangers and Liberty, our media business has rights agreements with other professional sports teams that we do not control. We may seek renewal of these contracts and, if we do so, we may be outbid by a competing network for these contracts or the renewal costs could substantially exceed our costs under the current contracts. One or more of these teams may seek to establish their own programming network or join a competitor’s network and, in certain circumstances, we may not have an opportunity to bid for the rights. Moreover, the value of these contracts may also be affected by various league decisions and/or league agreements that we may not be able to control, including a decision to alter the number of games played during a season. The value of these rights can also be affected, or we could lose such rights entirely, if a team is liquidated, undergoes reorganization in bankruptcy or relocates to an area where it is not possible or commercially feasible for us to continue to carry games. Any loss or diminution in the value of rights could impact the extent of the sports coverage offered by us and could adversely affect our affiliation fee and advertising revenues. In addition, our distribution agreements typically include certain remedies in the event our MSG Networks fail to meet a minimum number of professional events, and, accordingly, any loss of rights could adversely affect our business. Each league’s governing body has imposed a number of rules, regulations, guidelines, bulletins, directives, policies and agreements upon its teams, including the teams we carry on our MSG Networks. Changes to these provisions could materially adversely affect our business. Our Programming Business is Subject to Direct and Indirect Government Regulation, in Part as a Result of Federal Law and Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) Regulations Applicable Because of Cablevision’s and Our Common Directors, Officers, and Shareholders. For FCC purposes, the common directors and five percent or greater shareholders of Cablevision and Madison Square Garden are deemed to hold attributable interests in each of the companies. As a result, certain regulations applicable to a programming network affiliated with a cable television operator apply to Madison Square Garden. This affiliation may also limit the activities or strategic business alternatives available to Madison Square Garden, including the ability to own or operate media properties we do not presently own or operate. Other FCC regulations, although imposed on cable television operators and satellite operators, affect programming networks indirectly. See Item 1. “Business —Regulation — Regulation of Our Media Business.” Legislative enactments, court actions, and federal regulatory proceedings could materially affect our programming business by modifying the rates, terms, and conditions under which we offer our programming services to distributors and the public, or otherwise materially affect the range of our activities or strategic business alternatives. We cannot predict the likelihood or results of any such legislative, judicial, or regulatory actions. General Risks Our Business has been Adversely Impacted and may, in the Future, be Materially Adversely Impacted by the Economic Downturn. Our businesses depend upon the ability and willingness of consumers and businesses to purchase tickets (including season tickets) or to license suites at our facilities and to spend on concessions and merchandise, and upon advertising revenues. As a result, the current economic downturn and its negative effects on consumers’ discretionary spending has adversely affected our revenues. The New York City metropolitan area has been particularly adversely affected by the impact of the economic downturn. 29 Table of Contents Our Business Could be Adversely Affected by Terrorist Activity or the Threat of Terrorist Activity and Other Developments that Discourage Congregation at Prominent Places of Public Assembly. The venues we operate, like all prominent places of public assembly, could be the target of terrorist activities. The success of our businesses is dependent upon the willingness of patrons to attend events at our venues. Terrorist activity at other locations, or even the threat of terrorist activity, could result in reduced attendance at our venues. Similarly, a major epidemic or pandemic, or the threat of such an event, could adversely affect attendance at our events. Our Businesses are Substantially Dependent on the Continued Popularity and/or Competitive Success of the New York Knicks and the New York Rangers, Which Cannot be Assured. Our financial results have historically been dependent on, and are expected to continue to depend in large part on, the New York Knicks and the New York Rangers remaining popular with our fan bases and, in varying degrees, on the teams’ achieving on-court and on-ice success, which can generate fan enthusiasm, resulting in sustained ticket, premium seating, suite, concession and merchandise sales during the regular season, greater shares of total viewership and increased advertising sales. Furthermore, success in the regular season may qualify a team for participation in post-season playoffs, which provides us with additional revenue by increasing the number of games played by our teams and, more importantly, by generating increased excitement and interest in our teams, which can improve attendance and viewership in subsequent seasons. There can be no assurance that any sports teams, including the New York Knicks and the New York Rangers, will compete in post-season play in 2010 or thereafter. We are Planning an Extensive Renovation of The Garden, the Cost, Timing and Revenue Impact of Which are Uncertain. We previously announced our intent to pursue a major renovation of The Garden. We continue to review all aspects of this complex project with our consultants in order to improve the renovation plans, mitigate project risks and identify efficiencies in all aspects of costs, planning and project-phasing. We also continue to develop our cost and capital investment estimates to ensure that the planned renovation meets our overall expectations and objectives. While the pre-construction planning and cost estimates of this renovation are not yet final, we currently expect that the project’s cost will be between $775 million and $850 million. Total arena renovation expenditures incurred through December 31, 2009 were approximately $60 million of which approximately $35 million was in 2009. We expect that the estimated costs associated with the project will be met from cash on hand, receipt of repayments of advances made to a subsidiary of Cablevision and cash flow from our operations. We have recently entered into a senior secured revolving credit facility with a syndicate of lenders. (See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Financing Agreements.”) To the extent that management determines that financing for this renovation is required or desirable, we would expect to draw on this facility. In order to most efficiently and effectively complete the renovation, it will be a year-round project. Our goal is to minimize disruption to current operations and, to achieve this, The Garden will remain open for the New York Knicks’ and New York Rangers’ seasons in the years when the renovation takes place, while we sequence the construction to ensure that we maximize our construction efforts when we close the arena during summer months. Our current expectation is that the renovated lower bowl of The Garden will be open for the 2011-12 seasons, and that the renovated upper bowl will be open for the 2012-13 seasons. Although the Company continues to pursue the arena renovation plan, there can be no assurance that a renovation will occur or what the ultimate cost, scope or timing of any renovation activity may be. 30 Table of Contents We Do Not Own all of Our Venues and Our Failure to Renew Our Leases or Booking Agreement on Economically Attractive Terms Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. The lease on Radio City Music Hall expires in 2023. We have the option to renew the lease for an additional ten years by providing two years’ notice prior to the initial expiration date. Similarly, we lease the Beacon Theatre pursuant to a lease that expires in 2026. We have also entered into a booking agreement in respect of the Wang Theatre in Boston. Our booking agreement expires in 2019 and we have the option to renew the agreement at that time for an additional ten years. If we are unable to renew these leases or the booking agreement on economically attractive terms, our business could be adversely affected. Our Properties are Subject to, and Benefit from, Certain Easements, the Availability of Which may Not Continue on Terms Favorable to Us or at All. Our properties are subject to, and benefit from, certain easements. For example, the “breezeway” into the Madison Square Garden complex from Seventh Avenue in New York City is a significant easement that we share with other property owners. Our ability to continue to utilize this and other easements, including for advertising purposes, requires us to comply with a number of conditions. Moreover, certain adjoining property owners have easements over our property, which we are required to maintain so long as those property owners meet certain conditions. It is possible that we will be unable to continue to access or maintain any easements on terms favorable to us, or at all, which could have a significant negative impact on our revenues and results of operations. We may Require Third-Party Financing to Fund Our Ongoing Operations and Capital Expenditures, Including Our Planned Renovation of The Garden, the Availability of Which is Highly Uncertain. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. The markets have exerted extreme downward pressure on stock prices and upward pressure on the cost of new debt capital and have severely restricted credit availability for most issuers. Our business has been characterized by significant expenditures for properties and businesses, for renovations and for productions. In particular, our planned renovation of The Garden will require significant cash resources. In the future we may also engage in similar transactions and such transactions may be dependent on our ability to obtain third-party financing. We may also seek third-party financing to fund our ongoing operations. Although we have entered into a credit facility (see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —Liquidity and Capital Resources — Financing Agreements”), our ability to draw on any such facility will depend on our ability to meet certain financial tests and other conditions. In addition, you should not assume that we will be able to refinance any such facility in the future or raise any required additional capital or do so on favorable terms. We may not be able to raise additional capital on favorable terms, or at all, if unsettled conditions in financial markets continue to exist. In addition, as described above, the leagues in which our sports teams compete may have, under certain circumstances, approval rights over certain financing transactions, and in connection with those rights, could affect our ability to use third-party financing. If we are unable to pursue our current and future spending programs, we may be forced to cancel or scale back those programs. Our choice of which spending programs to cancel or reduce may be limited, although we do not currently anticipate that unavailability of third-party financing in any circumstances would materially affect our spending on player salaries in any respect. Failure to successfully pursue our capital expenditure and other spending plans could materially and adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. We have Substantial Credit Exposure to a Subsidiary of Cablevision. Prior to the Distribution, Cablevision actively managed the available cash of its subsidiaries to minimize the overall need for short term borrowings. As a result, subsidiaries of Cablevision with excess cash from time to time advanced some or all of those funds to Cablevision or to other subsidiaries of Cablevision which had funding needs. As of December 31, 2009, we have intercompany advances outstanding with a total balance of $190 million to a subsidiary of Cablevision. These advances are unsecured and have not been guaranteed by any person. On January 28, 2010, the intercompany advances were replaced with a promissory note having a principal amount of $190 million. The note accrues interest at a rate of 3.25% per annum. The note is non-amortizing and has a maturity date of June 30, 2010 with prepayment without penalty at Cablevision’s option. Until the note is repaid to us we are exposed to the credit risk of a subsidiary of Cablevision for a substantial portion of our liquid assets. 31 Table of Contents Our Business is Subject to Seasonal Fluctuations. The revenues of our MSG Sports and MSG Entertainment segments tend to be cyclical. For example, because 41% of our MSG Entertainment segment’s revenues and 11% of our combined revenues in 2009, net of intersegment eliminations, were derived from our Radio City Christmas Spectacular, including its touring shows, the revenues of our MSG Entertainment segment are highest in the fourth quarter when these performances primarily occur. As a result, MSG Entertainment earns a disproportionate amount of its revenue and operating income in the fourth quarter of each year. Similarly, because of the nature of the NBA and NHL playing seasons, revenues from our sports teams are concentrated in the first and last quarters of each year. Revenues from our business on a consolidated basis tend to be at their lowest in the second and third quarters. Our Sales of Beverages Entails Certain Legal, Regulatory and Reputational Risks. We hold liquor licenses at each of our venues and are subject to licensing requirements with respect to the sale of alcoholic beverages in the jurisdictions in which we serve those beverages. Failure to receive or retain, or the suspension of, liquor licenses or permits could interrupt or terminate our ability to serve alcoholic beverages at the applicable venue and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additional regulation relating to liquor licenses may limit our activities in the future or significantly increase the cost of compliance, or both. In the jurisdictions in which our venues are located, we are subject to statutes that generally provide that serving alcohol to a visibly intoxicated or minor patron is a violation of the law. Our liability insurance coverage may not be adequate or available to cover any potential liability. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” Our Business Benefits from a New York City Real Estate Tax Exemption, Which Could be Changed or Withdrawn. Many arenas, ballparks and stadia nationally and in New York City have received significant public support, including tax exempt financing, other tax benefits, direct subsidies and other contributions, including for public infrastructure critical to the facilities such as parking lots and transit improvements. Our Madison Square Garden complex benefits from a more limited real estate tax exemption pursuant to an agreement with the City of New York and legislation enacted by the State of New York in 1982. This tax exemption results in annual expense savings of approximately $12.4 million. From time to time there have been calls to repeal or amend the tax exemption. Repeal or amendment would require legislative action by New York State. There can be no assurance that the tax exemption will not be amended in a manner adverse to us or repealed in its entirety, either of which would be financially adverse to us. Organized Labor Matters Could Adversely Impact Our Business and Our Results of Operations. Our business is dependent upon the efforts of unionized workers. Any labor disputes, such as strikes or lockouts, with the unions with which we deal could materially adversely affect our businesses, including our ability to produce or present concerts, theatrical productions, sporting events and live telecasts. The NHL players and the NBA players are covered by collective bargaining agreements between the NHL Players’ Association and the NHL and between the National Basketball Players Association and the NBA, respectively. Both the NHL and the NBA have experienced labor difficulties in the past and may have labor issues in the future. Labor difficulties may include players’ strikes or management lockouts. In 1992, the NHL Players’ Association conducted a 10-day strike. A lockout during the 1994-95 NHL season resulted in the regular season being shortened from 84 to 48 games. A lockout beginning in September 2004 resulted in the cancellation of the entire 2004-05 NHL season. The current NHL collective bargaining agreement was last negotiated in 2005 and expires in 2011, with the players association having a one-year extension option. The NBA has also experienced labor difficulties, including a lockout during the 1998-99 season, which resulted in the regular season being shortened from 82 to 50 games. The current NBA collective bargaining agreement was last negotiated in 2005 and expires in 2011. 32 Table of Contents The Distribution Could Result in Significant Tax Liability. Prior to the Distribution, Cablevision received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) to the effect that, among other things, the Distribution, and certain related transactions, would qualify for tax-free treatment under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). Although a private letter ruling from the IRS generally is binding on the IRS, if the factual representations or assumptions made in the letter ruling request were untrue or incomplete in any material respect, Cablevision would not be able to rely on the ruling. Furthermore, the IRS will not rule on whether a distribution satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under the Code. Rather, the ruling was based upon representations by Cablevision that these conditions were satisfied, and any inaccuracy in such representations could invalidate the ruling. If the Distribution does not qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then, in general, Cablevision would be subject to tax as if it had sold the common stock of our Company in a taxable sale for its fair market value. Cablevision’s shareholders would be subject to tax as if they had received a distribution equal to the fair market value of our common stock that was distributed to them, which generally would be treated first as a taxable dividend to the extent of Cablevision’s earnings and profits, then as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of each shareholder’s tax basis in his or her Cablevision stock and thereafter as capital gain with respect to the remaining value. It is expected that the amount of any such taxes to Cablevision’s shareholders and Cablevision would be substantial. See “ — We may have a Significant Indemnity Obligation to Cablevision if the Distribution is Treated as a Taxable Transaction.” We may have a Significant Indemnity Obligation to Cablevision if the Distribution is Treated as a Taxable Transaction. We have entered into a Tax Disaffiliation Agreement with Cablevision, which sets out each party’s rights and obligations with respect to deficiencies and refunds, if any, of federal, state, local or foreign taxes for periods before and after the Distribution and related matters such as the filing of tax returns and the conduct of IRS and other audits. Pursuant to the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement, we are required to indemnify Cablevision for losses and taxes of Cablevision resulting from the breach of certain covenants and for certain taxable gain recognized by Cablevision, including as a result of certain acquisitions of our stock or assets. If we are required to indemnify Cablevision under the circumstances set forth in the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our financial position. The Tax Rules Applicable to the Distribution may Restrict Us from Engaging in Certain Corporate Transactions or From Raising Equity Capital Beyond Certain Thresholds for a Period of Time After the Distribution. To preserve the tax-free treatment of the Distribution to Cablevision and its shareholders, under the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement with Cablevision, for the two-year period following the Distribution, we are subject to restrictions with respect to: • entering into any transaction pursuant to which 50% or more of our shares or assets would be acquired, whether by merger or otherwise, unless certain tests are met; • issuing equity securities, if any such issuances would, in the aggregate, constitute 50% or more of the voting power or value of our capital stock; • certain repurchases of our common shares; • ceasing to actively conduct our business; 33 Table of Contents • amendments to our organizational documents (i) affecting the relative voting rights of our stock or (ii) converting one class of our stock to another; • liquidating or partially liquidating; and • taking any other action that prevents the Distribution and related transactions from being tax-free. These restrictions may limit our ability during such period to pursue strategic transactions of a certain magnitude that involve the issuance or acquisition of our stock or engage in new businesses or other transactions that might increase the value of our business. These restrictions may also limit our ability to raise significant amounts of cash through the issuance of stock, especially if our stock price were to suffer substantial declines, or through the sale of certain of our assets. We do not have a Significant Operating History as a Public Company. In the past, we relied on Cablevision for various financial, operational and managerial resources in conducting our businesses. Following the Distribution, we now maintain our own credit and banking relationships and perform our own financial and operational functions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully put in place the financial, operational and managerial resources necessary to operate as a public company or that we will be able to be profitable doing so. Our Historical Financial Results as a Business Segment of Cablevision may Not be Representative of Our Results as a Separate, Stand-Alone Company. The historical financial information we have included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Cablevision and does not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been had we been a separate, stand-alone company during the periods presented. Although Cablevision did account for our company as a business segment, we were not operated as a separate, stand-alone company for the historical periods presented. The historical costs and expenses reflected in our combined financial statements include an allocation for certain corporate functions historically provided by Cablevision, including general corporate expenses and employee benefits and incentives. These allocations were based on what we and Cablevision considered to be reasonable reflections of the historical utilization levels of these services required in support of our business. The historical information does not necessarily indicate what our results of operations, financial position, cash flows or costs and expenses will be in the future. Our Ability to Operate Our Business Effectively may Suffer If We do Not, Quickly and Effectively, Establish Our Own Financial, Administrative and Other Support Functions in Order to Operate as a Stand-Alone Company, and We cannot Assure You that the Transition Services Cablevision has Agreed to Provide Us will be Sufficient for Our Needs. Historically, we have relied on financial, administrative and other resources of Cablevision to support the operation of our business. In conjunction with our separation from Cablevision, we will need to expand our financial, administrative and other support systems or contract with third parties to replace certain of Cablevision’s systems. Any failure or significant downtime in our own financial or administrative systems or in Cablevision’s financial or administrative systems during the transition period could impact our results and/or prevent us from performing other administrative services and financial reporting on a timely basis and could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may Incur Material Costs and Expenses as a Result of Our Separation from Cablevision. We may incur costs and expenses greater than those we currently incur as a result of our separation from Cablevision. These increased costs and expenses may arise from various factors, including financial reporting, costs associated with complying with federal securities laws (including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002), tax administration, legal and human resources related functions. Although Cablevision will continue to provide certain of these services to us under a services agreement, such services are for a limited period of time. We cannot assure you that these costs will not be material to our business. 34 Table of Contents In Connection with the Distribution, We will Rely on Cablevision’s Performance Under Various Agreements. In connection with the Distribution, we entered into various agreements with Cablevision, including a Distribution Agreement, a Tax Disaffiliation Agreement, a Transition Services Agreement, an Employee Matters Agreement and certain other related party agreements and arrangements. These agreements govern our relationship with Cablevision subsequent to the Distribution and provide for the allocation of employee benefits, taxes and certain other liabilities and obligations attributable to periods prior to the Distribution. These agreements also include arrangements with respect to transition services and a number of on-going commercial relationships. The Distribution Agreement includes an agreement that we and Cablevision agree to provide each other with indemnities with respect to liabilities arising out of the businesses that were transferred to us by Cablevision. We are also party to other arrangements with Cablevision, such as affiliation agreements covering the MSG Networks and Fuse. We and Cablevision will rely on the other to perform its obligations under these agreements. If Cablevision were to breach or to be unable to satisfy its material obligations under these agreements, including a failure to satisfy its indemnification obligations, we could suffer operational difficulties or significant losses. If We are Unable to Satisfy the Requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Our Internal Control Over Financial Reporting is not Effective, the Reliability of Our Financial Statements may be Questioned and Our Stock Price may Suffer. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of its and its consolidated subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we will be required in 2010 to document and test our internal control procedures, and our management will be required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent auditors will be required to issue an opinion on the effective operation of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. During the course of its testing, our management may identify material weaknesses or deficiencies which may not be remedied in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If our management or our independent auditors cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken, and our stock price may suffer. We are Controlled by the Dolan Family. We have two classes of common stock: • Class B Common Stock, which is generally entitled to ten votes per share and is entitled collectively to elect 75% of our Board of Directors, and • Class A Common Stock, which is entitled to one vote per share and is entitled collectively to elect the remaining 25% of our Board of Directors. As of the Distribution date, the Dolan family, including trusts for the benefit of members of the Dolan family, collectively owned all of our Class B Common Stock, less than 3% of our outstanding Class A Common Stock and approximately 70% of the total voting power of all our outstanding common stock. Of this amount, Cablevision’s Chairman, Charles F. Dolan, beneficially owned approximately 46% of our outstanding Class B Common Stock, less than 1% of our outstanding Class A Common Stock and approximately 32% of the total voting power of all our outstanding common stock. The members of the Dolan family holding Class B Common Stock have executed a voting agreement that has the effect of causing the voting power of the holders of our Class B Common Stock to be cast as a block with respect to all matters to be voted on by holders of Class B Common Stock. The Dolan family is able to prevent a change in control of our company and no person interested in acquiring us will be able to do so without obtaining the consent of the Dolan family. 35 Table of Contents Charles F. Dolan, members of his family and certain related family entities, by virtue of their stock ownership, have the power to elect all of our directors subject to election by holders of Class B Common Stock and are able collectively to control stockholder decisions on matters on which holders of all classes of our common stock vote together as a single class. These matters could include the amendment of some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and the approval of fundamental corporate transactions. In addition, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding shares of the Class B Common Stock, voting separately as a class, is required to approve: • the authorization or issuance of any additional shares of Class B Common Stock, and • any amendment, alteration or repeal of any of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation that adversely affects the powers, preferences or rights of the Class B Common Stock. As a result, Charles F. Dolan, members of his family and certain related family entities also collectively have the power to prevent such issuance or amendment. The members of the Dolan family group have entered into an agreement with the Company in which they agree that during the 12-month period beginning on the Distribution date, the Dolan family group must obtain the prior approval of a majority of the Company’s Independent Directors prior to acquiring common stock of the Company through a tender offer that results in members of the Dolan family group owning more than 50% of the total number of outstanding shares of common stock of the Company. For purposes of this agreement, the term “Independent Directors” means the directors of the Company who have been determined by our Board of Directors to be independent directors for purposes of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC corporate governance standards. We Have Elected to be a “controlled company” for The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC Purposes Which Allows Us Not to Comply with all of the Corporate Governance Rules of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. Charles F. Dolan, members of his family and certain related family entities have entered into a Stockholders Agreement relating, among other things, to the voting of their shares of our Class B Common Stock. As a result, we are a “controlled company” under the corporate governance rules of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. As a controlled company, we have the right to elect not to comply with the corporate governance rules of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC requiring: (i) a majority of independent directors on our Board and (ii) an independent corporate governance and nominating committee. Our Board of Directors has elected for the Company to be treated as a “controlled company” under The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC corporate governance rules and to not comply with The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC requirement for a majority independent board of directors and for an independent corporate governance and nominating committee because of our status as a controlled company. Future Stock Sales, Including as a Result of the Exercising of Registration Rights by Certain of our Shareholders, Could Adversely Affect the Trading Price of Our Class A Common Stock. Certain parties have registration rights covering a portion of our shares. We have entered into registration rights agreements with Charles F. Dolan, certain Dolan family interests and the Dolan Family Foundations that provide them with “demand” and “piggyback” registration rights with respect to approximately 15 million shares of Class A Common Stock, including shares issuable upon conversion of shares of Class B Common Stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of Class A Common Stock could adversely affect the market price of the Class A Common Stock and could impair our future ability to raise capital through an offering of our equity securities. 36 Table of Contents Transfers and Ownership of Our Common Stock are Subject to Restrictions Under Rules of the NBA and the NHL and Our Certificate of Incorporation Provides Us With Remedies Against Holders Who Don’t Comply with Those Restrictions. The Company is the owner of professional sports franchises in the NBA and the NHL. As a result, transfers and ownership of our Common Stock are subject to certain restrictions under the constituent documents of the NBA and the NHL as well as the Company’s consent agreements with the NBA and the NHL in connection with their approval of the Distribution. These restrictions are described under “Description of Capital Stock Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock Transfer Restrictions” in our registration statement on Form 10 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In order to protect the Company and its NBA and NHL franchises from sanctions that might be imposed by the NBA or the NHL as a result of violations of these restrictions, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that if a transfer of shares of our Common Stock to a person or the ownership of shares of our Common Stock by a person requires approval or other action by a league and such approval or other action was not obtained or taken as required, the Company shall have the right by written notice to the holder to require the holder to dispose of the shares of Common Stock which triggered the need for such approval. If a holder fails to comply with such a notice, in addition to any other remedies that may be available, the Company may redeem the shares at 85% of the fair market value of those shares. We Share Certain Key Executives and Directors with Cablevision Which Means Those Executives Will Not Devote Their Full Time and Attention to Our Affairs and the Overlap may Give Rise to Conflicts. Our Executive Chairman, James L. Dolan, also serves as the President and Chief Executive Officer of Cablevision and our President and Chief Executive Officer, Hank J. Ratner also serves as a Vice Chairman of Cablevision. This arrangement is similar to the historical situation whereby Messrs. Dolan and Ratner have served as senior officers of both companies. As a result, the two most senior officers of the Company do not devote their full time and attention to the Company’s affairs. In addition, eight members of our Board of Directors are also directors of Cablevision, and several of our directors serve as employees of Cablevision concurrently with their service on our Board of Directors. These officers and directors may have actual or apparent conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting each company. For example, the potential for a conflict of interest exists when we or Cablevision look at acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be suitable for both companies. Also, conflicts may arise if there are issues or disputes under the commercial arrangements that exist between Cablevision and us. In addition, certain of our directors and officers own Cablevision stock and options to purchase Cablevision stock, as well as cash performance awards with any payout based on Cablevision’s performance, including Messrs. Dolan and Ratner. These ownership interests could create actual, apparent or potential conflicts of interest when these individuals are faced with decisions that could have different implications for our Company and Cablevision. See “Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions — Certain Relationships and Potential Conflicts of Interest” in our registration statement on Form 10 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of certain procedures we will institute to help ameliorate such potential conflicts that may arise. Our Overlapping Directors and Executive Officers with Cablevision may Result in the Diversion of Corporate Opportunities and Other Conflicts to Cablevision and Provisions in Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation may Provide Us No Remedy in That Circumstance. The Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation acknowledges that directors and officers of the Company may also be serving as directors, officers, employees, consultants or agents of Cablevision and its subsidiaries and that the Company may engage in material business transactions with such entities. The Company has renounced its rights to certain business opportunities and the Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that no director or officer of the Company who is also serving as a director, officer, employee, consultant or agent of Cablevision and its subsidiaries will be liable to the Company or its stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty that would otherwise exist by reason of the fact that any such individual directs a corporate opportunity (other than certain limited types of opportunities set forth in our certificate of incorporation) to Cablevision or any of its subsidiaries instead of the Company, or does not refer or communicate information regarding such corporate opportunities to the Company. These provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also expressly validate certain contracts, agreements, assignments and transactions (and amendments, modifications or terminations thereof) between the Company and Cablevision and/or any of its subsidiaries and, to the fullest extent permitted by law, provide that the actions of the overlapping directors or officers in connection therewith are not breaches of fiduciary duties owed to the Company, any of its subsidiaries or their respective shareholders. See “Description of Capital Stock — Certain Corporate Opportunities and Conflicts” in our registration statement on Form 10 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 37 Table of Contents 