Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Relating to Our Sports BusinessOur Sports Business Faces Intense and Wide-Ranging Competition, Which May Have a Negative Effect on Our Profitability.The success of a sports business, like ours, is dependent upon the performance and/or popularity of its franchises. Our Knicks and Rangers franchises compete, in varying respects and degrees, with other live sporting events, and with sporting events delivered over television networks, radio, the Internet and online services, mobile applications and other alternative sources. For example, our sports teams compete for attendance, viewership and advertising with a wide range of alternatives available in the New York City metropolitan area. During some or all of the basketball and hockey seasons, our sports teams face competition, in varying respects and degrees, from professional baseball (including the Yankees and the Mets), professional football (including the Giants and the Jets) and each other. For fans who prefer the unique experience of NHL hockey, we must compete with two other hockey teams located in the New York City metropolitan area (the Islanders and Devils) as well as, in varying respects and degrees, with other NHL hockey teams and the NHL itself. Similarly, for those fans attracted to the equally unique experience of NBA basketball, we must compete, in varying respects and degrees, with another NBA team located in the New York City metropolitan area (the Nets), which may competitively benefit from a new arena expected to open in Brooklyn, New York in September 2012, as well as with other NBA teams and the NBA itself.As a result of the large number of options available, we face strong competition to attract sports fans in the New York City 20Table of Contentsmetropolitan area, nationally and globally. We must compete with these other sports teams and sporting events, in varying respects and degrees, including on the basis of the quality of the teams we field, their success in the leagues in which they compete, our ability to provide an entertaining environment at our games, prices we charge for tickets and the viewing availability of our teams on multiple media alternatives. Given the nature of sports, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively, including with companies that may have greater resources than we have, and as a consequence, our operating margins and market position could be reduced and the growth of our business inhibited.Our Basketball and Hockey Decisions, Especially Those Concerning Player Selection and Salaries, May Negatively Affect Our Financial Performance.Creating and maintaining our sports teams' popularity and/or on-court and on-ice competitiveness is key to the success of our sports business. Accordingly, efforts to improve our revenues and earnings from operations from period to period may be secondary to actions that management believes will generate long-term value. As with other sports teams, the competitive positions of our sports teams depends primarily on our ability to develop, obtain and retain talented players, for which we compete with other professional sports teams. Our efforts in this regard may include, among other things, trading for highly compensated players, signing draft picks, free agents or current players to new contracts, engaging in salary arbitration with existing players and terminating and waiving players. Any of these actions could increase expenses for a particular period, subject to any salary cap restrictions contained in the respective leagues' collective bargaining agreements. There can be no assurance that any actions taken by management to increase our long-term value will be successful.A significant factor in our ability to attract and retain talented players is player compensation. NBA and NHL player salaries have generally increased significantly and may continue to increase. Although collective bargaining agreements between the NBA and the NBPA and the NHL and the NHLPA generally cap league-wide player salaries at a prescribed percentage of league-wide revenues, we may pay our players different aggregate salaries and a different proportion of our revenues than other NBA or NHL franchises. Future collective bargaining agreements may increase the percentage of league-wide revenues to which NBA or NHL players are entitled or impose other conditions, which may further increase our costs. In addition, we may also be obligated to pay the NBA a luxury tax each year, the calculation of which is determined by a formula based on the aggregate salaries paid to our NBA players. To the extent that our aggregate player salaries exceed the luxury tax threshold under the new NBA CBA, the luxury tax rate beginning with the 2013-14 season will be substantially higher than the tax rate that would have been owed under the prior NBA CBA (or under the existing NBA CBA for the 2011-12 and 2012-13 seasons). We expect to be an NBA luxury tax payer in fiscal year 2013. See "Item 7. Managements' Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Business Overview — MSG Sports — NBA Luxury Tax." The current CBA between the NHL and the NHLPA is scheduled to expire on September 15, 2012. Significant increases in players' salaries, NBA luxury tax payments and/or the impact of a new NHL CBA could have a material negative effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows if the increases are not offset by adequate increases in revenue. See "— General Risks — Organized Labor Matters Could Negatively Impact Our Business and Our Results of Operations." We have incurred, and may in the future incur, significant charges for costs associated with transactions relating to players on our sports teams for season-ending and career-ending injuries and for trades, waivers and contract terminations of players and other team personnel, including team executives. These transactions can result in significant charges as the Company recognizes the estimated ultimate costs of these events in the period in which they occur, although amounts due to these individuals are generally paid over their remaining contract terms. These expenses add to the volatility of the results of our MSG Sports segment.The Actions of the Basketball and Hockey Leagues May Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Businesses.The governing bodies of the NBA (including the WNBA) and the NHL have certain rights under certain circumstances to take actions that they deem to be in the best interests of their respective sports, which may not necessarily be consistent with maximizing our results of operations and which could affect our teams in ways that are different than the impact on other teams. Certain of these decisions by the NBA or the NHL could have a material negative effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. From time to time, we may disagree with or challenge actions the leagues take or the power and authority they assert. The following discussion highlights certain areas in which decisions of the NBA and the NHL could materially affect our businesses.The NBA and the NHL may assert control over certain matters, under certain circumstances, that may affect our revenues such as the national and international rights to telecast the games of league members, including the Knicks and the Rangers, licensing of the rights to produce and sell merchandise bearing the logos and/or other intellectual property of our teams and the leagues, and the Internet activities of our teams. The NBA and NHL have each entered into agreements regarding the national and international telecasts of NBA and NHL games. We receive a share of the income the NBA and the NHL generate from these contracts, which expire from time to time. There can be no assurance that the NBA or the NHL will be able to renew these contracts following their expiration on terms as favorable to us as those in the current agreements or that we will continue 21Table of Contentsto receive the same level of revenues in the future. Changes to national and international telecast rights could also impact the availability of games covered by our local telecast rights and could affect our revenues. The leagues have asserted control over certain other important decisions, under certain circumstances, such as the length and format of the playing season, including preseason and playoff schedules, the operating territories of the member teams, admission of new members, franchise relocations, labor relations with the players associations, collective bargaining, free agency, and luxury taxes and revenue sharing. Decisions on these matters, some of which are also subject to the terms of the relevant collective bargaining agreement, may materially affect our business. In addition, the NBA imposes a luxury tax and escrow system with respect to player salaries and a revenue sharing plan. We anticipate that the Knicks will be required to contribute a substantially greater amount under the revenue sharing plan that was instituted beginning in the 2011-12 season than under the prior revenue sharing plan. For fiscal year 2012, the Knicks recorded approximately $13,465 (including $1,063 related to the playoffs) in revenue sharing expenses for the 2011-12 season, net of estimated escrow receipts. The actual amounts for the 2011-12 season may vary significantly from the estimate based on actual operating results for the league and the teams for the season and other factors. In addition, given our expectation of continued revenue growth, actual operating results of the league and the teams and other factors, we expect our NBA revenue sharing obligations in subsequent seasons to grow substantially. Beginning with the 2013-14 NBA season, the NBA luxury tax rate, to the extent we are a luxury tax payer, will be substantially higher than in prior years. The NHL CBA also imposes an escrow system and a revenue sharing system. See "— General Risks — Organized Labor Matters Could Negatively Impact Our Business and Our Results of Operations." and "— Our Basketball and Hockey Decisions, Especially Those Concerning Player Selection and Salaries, May Negatively Affect Our Financial Performance."The NBA and the NHL have imposed certain restrictions on the ability of owners to undertake some types of transactions in respect of teams, including a change in ownership, a relocation of a team and certain types of financing transactions. In certain instances, these restrictions could impair our ability to proceed with a transaction that is in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders if we were unable to obtain required league approvals in a timely manner or at all.The leagues impose certain rules that define, under certain circumstances, the territories in which we operate, including the markets in which we telecast games. Changes to these rules could have a material negative effect on us.Each league's governing body has imposed a number of rules, regulations, guidelines, bulletins, directives, policies and agreements upon its teams. Changes to these provisions may apply to our sports teams and their personnel, and the Company as a whole, regardless of whether we agree or disagree with such changes, have voted against such changes or have challenged them through other means, and it is possible that any such changes could materially negatively affect our business to the extent they are ultimately determined to bind our teams. The commissioners of each of the NBA and NHL assert significant authority to take certain actions on behalf of their respective leagues under certain circumstances. Decisions by the commissioners of the NBA and the NHL, including on the matters described above, may negatively affect our businesses. The leagues' governing documents and our agreements with the leagues purport to limit the manner in which we may challenge decisions and actions by a league commissioner or the league itself.The NHL CBA is scheduled to expire on September 15, 2012. The NHL's salary cap, escrow and revenue sharing systems, which are set forth in, and impacted by, the terms of the CBA, may change in connection with a new NHL CBA. The impact of any such changes, if they were to occur, are not known at this time, but could be significant to the Company. See "— General Risks — Organized Labor Matters Could Negatively Impact Our Business and Our Results of Operations." Injuries to Players on Our Sports Teams Could Hinder Our Success.To the degree that our financial results are dependent on our sports teams' popularity and/or on-court and on-ice success, the likelihood of achieving such popularity or competitive success may, given the nature of sports, be substantially impacted by serious and/or untimely injuries to key players. Nearly all of our Knicks and Rangers players, including those with multi-year contracts, have partially or fully guaranteed contracts, meaning that in some cases (subject to the terms of the applicable player contract and collective bargaining agreement), a player or his estate may be entitled to receive his salary even if the player dies or is unable to play as a result of injury. These salaries represent significant financial commitments for our sports teams. We are generally insured against having to pay salaries in the event of a player's death and seek to obtain disability insurance policies for substantially all of our material player contracts. In the event of injuries sustained resulting in lost services (as defined in the insurance policies), generally the insurance policies provide for payment to us of a portion of the player's salary for the remaining term of the contract or until the player can resume play, in each case following a deductible number of missed games. Such insurance may not be available in every circumstance or on terms that are commercially feasible or such insurance may contain significant dollar limits and/or exclusions from coverage for preexisting medical conditions. We may choose not to obtain (or may not be able to obtain) such insurance in some cases and we may change coverage levels (or be unable to change coverage levels) in the future. In the absence of disability insurance, we may be obligated to pay all of an injured player's salary. In addition, player disability insurance policies do not cover any NBA luxury tax that we may be required to pay under the NBA CBA. For purposes of 22Table of Contentsdetermining NBA luxury tax under the NBA CBA, salary payable to an injured player is included in team salary, unless and until that player's salary is removed from the team salary for purposes of calculating NBA luxury tax which, pursuant to the terms of the NBA CBA, requires a waiting period of one year and satisfaction of other conditions. Replacement of an injured player may result in an increase in salary and NBA luxury tax expense for us. Risks Relating to Our Entertainment BusinessOur Entertainment Business Faces Intense and Wide-Ranging Competition Which May Have a Negative Effect on Our Profitability.Our entertainment business competes, in certain respects and to varying degrees, with other leisure-time activities such as television, radio, motion picture, Broadway shows, sporting events, the Internet and online services, including sites for online music services and content distribution, home video and other alternative sources of entertainment and information, in addition to competing concert and event venues for total entertainment dollars in our marketplace. The success of our entertainment business is largely dependent on the continued success of our Radio City Christmas Spectacular, and, to a lesser extent, the availability of, and our venues' ability to attract concerts, family shows and other events, competition for which is intense and the ability of acts to attract arena-sized capacities. For example, The Garden, The Theater at Madison Square Garden, Radio City Music Hall and the Beacon Theatre all compete with other entertainment options in the New York City metropolitan area. The Forum, The Chicago Theatre and the Wang Theatre face similar competition from other venues in their respective markets and elsewhere.Further, in order to maintain the competitive positions of The Garden and our other venues, we must invest on a continuous basis in state-of-the-art technology and facility maintenance while maintaining a competitive pricing structure for events that may be held in our venues, many of which have alternative venue options available to them in New York and other cities. In addition, we invest a substantial amount in our Radio City Christmas Spectacular and in new productions, to continue to attract our audiences. We cannot assure you that such investments will generate revenues that are sufficient to justify our investment or even that exceed our expenses.The Success of Our Entertainment Business Depends on the Continued Popularity of Our Live Productions, Particularly the Radio City Christmas Spectacular the Decline of Which Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Revenues.The financial results of our entertainment business are dependent on the popularity of our live productions, particularly the Radio City Christmas Spectacular. In particular, our entertainment business depends on the continuing popularity of the Radio City Christmas Spectacular at Radio City Music Hall, which represented 36% of our MSG Entertainment segment's revenues in our fiscal year 2012. Should the popularity of the Radio City Christmas Spectacular decline, our revenues from ticket sales, and concession and merchandise sales would likely also decline, and we might not be able to replace the lost revenue with revenues from other sources.Our Strategy for Our Entertainment Business Includes the Development of New Live Productions and the Possible Addition of New Venues, Each of Which Could Require Making Considerable Investments for Which There Can Be No Guarantee of Success.As part of our business strategy, we intend to develop new productions, and live entertainment events, which may include expansions of our existing productions or relationships or the creation of entirely new live productions. Expansion of productions or the development of new productions could require significant upfront investment in sets, staging, creative processes, casting and advertising and dislocation of other alternative sources of entertainment that may have played in our venues absent these productions. For example, we are investing in a large-scale theatrical production for the Radio City Music Hall. To the extent that any efforts at expanding productions or creating new productions do not result in a viable live show, or to the extent that any such productions do not achieve expected levels of popularity among audiences, we may be subject to a write-down of all or a portion of such investments. For example, in 2010 we incurred an impairment charge related to a co-production with Cirque du Soleil.Our strategy also involves the possible addition of venues, including in additional major markets beyond New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and Boston. Any such additions may involve purchasing or acquiring control of existing venues, renovating acquired venues or constructing new venues and could require significant investment. In pursuing such an expansion strategy, we will face risks, potentially including risks associated with the construction of new facilities or renovations of existing facilities, such as cost overruns and construction delays, risks associated with financing, such as the potential lack of availability of adequate financing to commence or complete an acquisition, development or renovation, risks associated with operating in new markets and the risk that we may lose all or a part of our investment in any additional venues. We plan to renovate the Forum, the iconic arena in Inglewood, California, which we acquired in June 2012. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Overview."23Table of ContentsRisks Relating to Our Media BusinessOur Media Business Faces Intense and Wide-Ranging Competition Which May Have a Negative Effect on Our Profitability.Our media business competes, in certain respects and to varying degrees, for viewers and advertisers with other programming networks, pay-per-view, video on demand, and other content offered on cable television and other programming distribution systems. We also compete for viewers and advertisers with other television networks, radio, motion picture theaters, home video, the Internet and online services, mobile media and other sources of information and entertainment and advertising services. Important competitive factors are the prices charged for programming, the quantity, quality (in particular, the on-court and on-ice performance of our sports teams as well as other teams whose media rights we control) and the variety of the programming offered and the effectiveness of marketing efforts. Additionally, video content delivered directly to viewers over the Internet competes with our programming networks for viewership.The competitive environment in which our media business operates may be affected by technological developments. It is difficult to predict the future effect of technology on many of the factors affecting our competitive position. For example, data compression technology has made it possible for most programming distributors to increase their channel capacity, which may reduce the competition among programming networks and broadcasters for channel space. On the other hand, the addition of channel space could also increase competition for desired entertainment and sports programming and ultimately, for viewing by subscribers. As more channel space becomes available, maintaining and/or enhancing the position of our programming networks in the most favorable tiers of these distributors would be an important goal that we might not achieve. With respect to advertising services, factors affecting the degree and extent of competition include prices, reach and audience demographics among others. Some of our competitors are large companies that have greater financial resources available to them than we do which could impact our programming viewership and the resulting advertising sales by our media business.We May Not Be Able to Adapt to New Content Distribution Platforms and to Changes in Consumer Behavior Resulting from These New Technologies, Which May Adversely Affect Our Business.We must successfully adapt to technological advances in our industry, including the emergence of alternative distribution platforms. Our ability to exploit new distribution platforms and viewing technologies will affect our ability to maintain or grow our business. Additionally, we must adapt to changing consumer behavior driven by advances such as digital video recorders (or "DVRs"), video on demand, Internet-based and online content delivery and mobile devices. Such changes may impact the revenues we are able to generate from our traditional distribution methods, either by decreasing the viewership of our programming networks on cable and other multichannel video distribution systems or by making advertising on our programming networks less valuable to advertisers. If we fail to adapt our distribution methods and content to emerging technologies, our appeal to our targeted audiences might decline and there could be a negative effect on our business.The Success of Our Media Business Also Depends on Affiliation Fees, and on Agreements with a Limited Number of Distributors of Our Programming, the Loss of Which or Renewal of Which on Less Favorable Terms Could Negatively Affect Our Results of Operations. Our media business derives much of its revenues from affiliation fees paid by Distributors that provide video service, as well as sales of advertising. Changes in affiliation fee revenues result from a combination of changes in rates and/or changes in subscriber counts, factors that may be largely out of our control. Our success is dependent upon the existence and terms of agreements between our programming networks and Distributors. Existing affiliation agreements of our programming networks expire at various dates. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to renew these affiliation agreements, or to obtain terms similar to our existing agreements in the event of a renewal.Our affiliation agreements generally require us to meet certain content criteria, such as minimum thresholds for professional event telecasts throughout the year for the MSG Networks. If we were unable to meet these criteria, we could become subject to remedies available to the Distributors, which may include fee reductions, rebates or refunds and/or termination of these agreements in some cases.In addition, under certain circumstances, an existing affiliation agreement may expire and the parties may have not finalized negotiations of either a renewal of that agreement or a new agreement for certain periods of time. In certain of these circumstances, the affiliate may continue to carry the service(s) until execution of definitive renewal or replacement agreements (or until we or the affiliate determine that carriage should cease).The pay television industry is highly concentrated, with a relatively small number of Distributors serving a significant percentage of pay television subscribers nationally and in the MSG Networks' operating territory. The loss of any of our 24Table of Contentssignificant Distributors or the failure to renew on terms similar to our existing agreements could severely impact our business and results of operations. Further consolidation in the pay television industry may lead to further concentration nationally and in the MSG Networks' operating territory. In some cases, if a Distributor is acquired, the affiliation agreement of the acquiring Distributor will govern following the acquisition. In those circumstances, the acquisition of a Distributor that is a party to one or more affiliation agreements with us on terms that are more favorable to us could have a material negative impact on our business and results of operations. We Derive Substantial Revenues from the Sale of Advertising Time and Those Revenues Are Subject to a Number of Factors, Many of Which Are Beyond Our Control.Our media business is dependent on advertising revenues, which, in turn, depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as the health of the economy in the markets our businesses serve and in the nation as a whole, general economic trends in the advertising industry, the popularity of our programming, the activities of our competitors, including increased competition from other forms of advertising-based media (such as newspapers, cable television, Internet, mobile media and radio), technological developments (such as use of DVRs) and consumer adoption thereof, consumer budgeting and buying patterns, extent of distribution and team performance. A continuing decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers' spending priorities, which could cause our revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period. In addition, we cannot assure that our programming will achieve favorable ratings. Our ratings depend partly upon unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, such as viewer preferences, the level of distribution of our programming, competing programming and the availability of other entertainment activities. A shift in viewer preferences could cause our advertising revenues to decline as a result of changes to the ratings for our programming.Our Rights Agreements with Various Professional Sports Teams that We Do Not Own Have Varying Durations and Renewal Terms and We May Be Unable to Renew Those Agreements on Acceptable Terms or Such Rights May Be Lost for Other Reasons.In addition to carrying the games of the Knicks, Rangers and Liberty, our media business has rights agreements with other professional sports teams that we do not control. We may seek renewal of these contracts and, if we do so, we may be outbid by competing networks for these contracts or the renewal costs could substantially exceed our costs under the current contracts. One or more of these teams may seek to establish their own programming network or join a competitor's network and, in certain circumstances, we may not have an opportunity to bid for the rights. Moreover, the value of these contracts may also be affected by various league decisions and/or league agreements that we may not be able to control, including a decision to alter the number of games played during a season. The value of these rights can also be affected, or we could lose such rights entirely, if a team is liquidated, undergoes reorganization in bankruptcy or relocates to an area where it is not possible or commercially feasible for us to continue to distribute games. Any loss or diminution in the value of rights could impact the extent of the sports coverage offered by us and could materially negatively affect our affiliation fee and advertising revenues. In addition, our distribution agreements typically include certain remedies in the event our MSG Networks fail to meet a minimum number of professional events, and, accordingly, any loss of rights could materially negatively affect our business. Each league's governing body has imposed a number of rules, regulations, guidelines, bulletins, directives, policies and agreements upon its teams, including the teams we carry on our MSG Networks. Changes to these provisions could materially negatively affect our business. We May Be Unable to Obtain Programming from Third Parties on Reasonable Terms or at All, Which Could Lead to Higher Costs.We rely on third parties for sports, music and other programming for our programming networks. We compete with other distributors of programming, including other programming networks, to acquire the rights to distribute such programming. If we fail to continue to obtain sports, music and other programming for our programming networks on reasonable terms for any reason, including as a result of competition, we could be forced to incur additional costs to acquire such programming or look for alternative programming, which may have a material negative effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows.Our Business Depends on the Appeal of Our Programming Which May be Unpredictable and Increased Programming Costs May Adversely Affect Our Profits.Our business depends in part upon viewer preferences and audience acceptance of the programming on our networks. These factors are often unpredictable and subject to influences that are beyond our control, such as the quality and appeal of competing programming, general economic conditions and the availability of other entertainment options. We may not be able to successfully predict interest in proposed new programming and viewer preferences could cause new programming not to be 25Table of Contentssuccessful or cause our existing programming to decline in popularity. An increase in our costs associated with programming, including original programming, may lead to decreased profitability or otherwise adversely affect our business to the extent we do not predict accurately how audiences will respond to such programming. General RisksOur Business Has Been Adversely Impacted and May, in the Future, Be Materially Impacted by the Economic Downturn and Financial Instability.Our businesses depend upon the ability and willingness of consumers and businesses to purchase tickets (including season tickets) or to license suites at our facilities and to spend on concessions and merchandise. In addition, our business is dependent upon advertising and sponsorship revenues. As a result, instability and continued weakness of the U.S. and global economies and the negative effects on consumers' discretionary spending may negatively affect our revenues.Our Business Could Be Adversely Affected by Terrorist Activity or the Threat of Terrorist Activity and Other Developments that Discourage Congregation at Prominent Places of Public Assembly.The success of our businesses is dependent upon the willingness and ability of patrons to attend events at our venues. The venues we operate, like all prominent places of public assembly, could be the target of terrorist activities or other actions that discourage attendance. Any such activity at one of our venues could result in a material negative effect on our business. In addition, terrorist activity or other actions that discourage attendance at other locations, or even the threat of such activity, could result in reduced attendance at our venues. Similarly, a major epidemic or pandemic, or the threat of such an event, could adversely affect attendance at our events. Our Businesses Are Substantially Dependent on the Continued Popularity and/or Competitive Success of the Knicks and Rangers, Which Cannot Be Assured.Our financial results have historically been dependent on, and are expected to continue to depend in large part on, the Knicks and Rangers remaining popular with our fan bases and, in varying degrees, on the teams achieving on-court and on-ice success, which can generate fan enthusiasm, resulting in sustained ticket, premium seating, suite, concession and merchandise sales during the regular season, greater shares of total viewership and increased advertising sales. Furthermore, success in the regular season may qualify a team for participation in post-season playoffs, which provides us with additional revenue by increasing the number of games played by our teams and, more importantly, by generating increased excitement and interest in our teams, which can improve attendance and viewership in subsequent seasons. There can be no assurance that any sports teams, including the Knicks and Rangers, will compete in post-season play in 2013 or thereafter.We Have Undertaken an Extensive Transformation of The Garden, the Cost, Timing and Revenue Impact of Which Are Uncertain.We continue our major renovation of The Garden, which we refer to as the Transformation. As with any major renovation project, the Transformation is subject to potential unexpected delays, costs or other problems. Depending upon the severity and timing, such events could materially and negatively affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. The Transformation is discussed in greater detail under "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources". In order to most efficiently and effectively complete the Transformation, it remains a year-round project. To minimize disruption to current operations, we plan for The Garden to remain open for the Knicks' and Rangers' regular seasons and playoffs. We have closed The Garden and The Theater at Madison Square Garden for the off-season following the Knicks' and Rangers' playoffs in 2011 and 2012 and we plan to close The Garden and The Theater at Madison Square Garden after the conclusion of the Knicks' and Rangers' seasons, including the playoffs, in 2013. Given that we cannot know in advance when those seasons will end, we are generally not booking live entertainment or other sporting events from a period commencing in April and ending in October of calendar year 2012 and 2013 and did not book such events during a similar period in calendar year 2011. We did not host any preseason Rangers' home games in the fiscal year 2012 and we do not expect to host preseason Knicks' or Rangers' home games in fiscal year 2013. Consequently, we expect to lose revenues as a result of this schedule. The renovated lower bowl of The Garden reopened in October 2011. The renovated upper bowl is expected to be open for the 2012-13 NBA and NHL regular seasons. We remain on schedule and do not expect total Transformation project construction costs to differ materially (higher or lower) from the previously disclosed $980,000 inclusive of various reserves for contingencies. The Transformation has helped generate, and is expected to continue to help generate, enhanced revenues and adjusted operating cash flow for the Company in the future. There can be no assurance that we will achieve these increases. In addition, 26Table of Contentsunexpected delays or disruptions in the construction schedule could result in delays in achieving increased revenues. In addition, such events and other unexpected circumstances could result in increased costs of the project or other losses. See also "— General Risks — We Are Subject to Extensive Governmental Regulation and Our Failure to Comply with These Regulations Could Negatively Affect our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition." We Do Not Own All of Our Venues and Our Failure to Renew Our Leases or Booking Agreement on Economically Attractive Terms Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business.The lease on Radio City Music Hall expires in 2023. We have the option to renew the lease for an additional ten years by providing two years' notice prior to the initial expiration date. Similarly, we lease the Beacon Theatre pursuant to a lease that expires in 2026. We have entered into a booking agreement with respect to the Wang Theatre in Boston. Our booking agreement expires in 2019 and we have the option to renew the agreement at that time for an additional ten years. If we are unable to renew these leases or the booking agreement on economically attractive terms, our business could be adversely affected.We Are Subject to Extensive Governmental Regulation and Our Failure to Comply with These Regulations Could Negatively Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations.Our programming business is subject to direct and indirect government regulation, in part as a result of federal communications laws and FCC regulations that apply because we have common directors, officers and shareholders with Cablevision. For FCC purposes, the common directors and officers and five percent or greater shareholders of each of Cablevision and Madison Square Garden are deemed to hold attributable interests in each of the companies. As a result, certain regulations applicable to a programming network affiliated with a cable television operator apply to Madison Square Garden. This affiliation may also limit the activities or strategic business alternatives available to Madison Square Garden, including the ability to own or operate media properties we do not presently own or operate. Some FCC regulations apply to us directly and other FCC regulations, although imposed on cable television operators and satellite operators, affect programming networks indirectly. See "Item 1. Business — Regulation — Regulation of Our Media Business." Legislative enactments, court actions, and federal regulatory proceedings could materially affect our programming business by modifying the rates, terms, and conditions under which we offer our programming services to distributors and the public, or otherwise materially affect the range of our activities or strategic business alternatives. We cannot predict the likelihood or results of any such legislative, judicial, or regulatory actions. Furthermore, to the extent that regulations and laws, either presently in force or proposed, hinder or stimulate the growth of the cable television and satellite industries, our programming business will be affected. The U.S. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect our programming business. The regulation of cable television services and satellite carriers is subject to the political process and has been in constant flux over the past two decades. Further material changes in the law and regulatory requirements must be anticipated. We cannot assure you that our programming business will not be adversely affected by future legislation, new regulation or deregulation.We hold liquor licenses at each of our venues and are subject to licensing requirements with respect to the sale of alcoholic beverages in the jurisdictions in which we serve those beverages. Failure to receive or retain, or the suspension of, liquor licenses or permits could interrupt or terminate our ability to serve alcoholic beverages at the applicable venue and could have a materially negative effect on our results of operations. Additional regulation relating to liquor licenses may limit our activities in the future or significantly increase the cost of compliance, or both. In the jurisdictions in which our venues are located, we are subject to statutes that generally provide that serving alcohol to a visibly intoxicated or minor patron is a violation of the law. Our liability insurance coverage may not be adequate or available to cover any potential liability.We and our venues are subject to environmental laws and regulations relating to the use, disposal, storage, emission and release of hazardous and non-hazardous substances, as well as zoning and noise level restrictions which may affect, among other things, the operations of our venues. Additionally, certain laws and regulations could hold us strictly, jointly and severally responsible for the remediation of hazardous substance contamination at our facilities or at third-party waste disposal sites, and could hold us responsible for any personal or property damage related to any contamination. Any requirements to dispose of, or remediate, such hazardous or non-hazardous materials and any associated costs and impact on operations of such efforts may be heightened as a result of the purchase, construction or renovation of a venue, including the Transformation and the Forum renovation.Our venues are subject to zoning and building regulations including permits relating to the Transformation and operation of The Garden. In addition, The Madison Square Garden Arena operates under a zoning special permit granted by the New York City 27Table of ContentsPlanning Commission in 1963, which is scheduled to expire in January 2013. We believe the special permit will be renewed, however, the mandatory procedural processes required for approval are not expected to be completed prior to the expiration date. Although we expect to continue operating the arena during the pendency of the renewal process, there can be no assurance regarding renewal of the permit or the terms thereof. Our businesses are, and may in the future be, subject to a variety of other laws and regulations, including licensing, permitting, and historic designation and similar requirements; working conditions, labor, immigration and employment laws; health, safety and sanitation requirements; compliance with the Americans With Disabilities Act; and privacy laws. Our failure to comply with applicable governmental laws and regulations could have a material negative effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows.Our Properties Are Subject to, and Benefit from, Certain Easements, the Availability of Which May Not Continue on Terms Favorable to Us or at All. Our properties are subject to, and benefit from, certain easements. For example, the "breezeway" into the Madison Square Garden Complex from Seventh Avenue in New York City is a significant easement that we share with other property owners. Our ability to continue to utilize this and other easements, including for advertising purposes, requires us to comply with a number of conditions. Moreover, certain adjoining property owners have easements over our property, which we are required to maintain so long as those property owners meet certain conditions. It is possible that we will be unable to continue to access or maintain any easements on terms favorable to us, or at all, which could have a material negative effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. We May Be Exposed to Business, Reputational and Litigation Risk if there Is Loss, Disclosure or Misappropriation of or Access to Our Customers' Personal Information or Other Breaches of Our Information Security.Through our operations, we collect and store certain personal information and payment card information that our customers provide to make purchases, register on our web sites, or otherwise communicate and interact with us. These activities require the use of online services and centralized data storage, including through third party service providers. Our ability to safeguard our customers' personal information and other confidential information, including Company and employee data, is important to our business. We take these matters seriously and have taken significant steps to protect consumer, employee and confidential information. Nevertheless, our information technology and other systems that maintain and transmit consumer information may be compromised by a malicious penetration of our network security, or that of a third party service provider. As a result, our customers' or employees' personal information may be lost, disclosed, accessed or taken without their consent, and the security of our other confidential information may be compromised.Any penetration of our network security or other misappropriation or misuse of personal consumer or employee information could subject us to business interruption and litigation and our reputation could be damaged, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.A Change to or Withdrawal of New York City Real Estate Tax Exemption Could Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business, Results of Operations and Cash Flows.Many arenas, ballparks and stadiums nationally and in New York City have received significant public support, such as tax exempt financing, other tax benefits, direct subsidies and other contributions, including for public infrastructure critical to the facilities such as parking lots and transit improvements. Our Madison Square Garden Complex benefits from a more limited real estate tax exemption pursuant to an agreement with the City of New York, subject to certain conditions, and legislation enacted by the State of New York in 1982. For fiscal year 2012, this tax exemption resulted in an annual after-tax benefit to net income of approximately $7.8 million. From time to time there have been calls to repeal or amend the tax exemption. Repeal or amendment would require legislative action by New York State. There can be no assurance that the tax exemption will not be amended in a manner adverse to us or repealed in its entirety, either of which could have a material negative effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows.We May Require Financing to Fund Our Ongoing Operations and Capital Expenditures, Including Our Transformation of The Garden, the Availability of Which Is Highly Uncertain.The capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption in recent years. Such markets can exert extreme downward pressure on stock prices and upward pressure on the cost of new debt capital and can severely restrict credit availability for most issuers.Our business has been characterized by significant expenditures for properties and businesses, for renovations and for productions. In particular, our Transformation of The Garden requires significant cash resources. In the future we may also engage in similar transactions and such transactions may depend on our ability to obtain financing. We may also seek financing 28Table of Contentsto fund our ongoing operations.Although we have a credit facility (see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Financing Agreements"), our ability to draw on such facility will depend on our ability to meet certain financial tests and other conditions. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any such facility in the future or raise any required additional capital or do so on favorable terms. Depending upon conditions in the financial markets, we may not be able to raise additional capital on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, as described above, the leagues in which our sports teams compete may have, under certain circumstances, approval rights over certain financing transactions, and in connection with those rights, could affect our ability to obtain such financing. If we are unable to pursue our current and future spending programs, we may be forced to cancel or scale back those programs. Our choice of which spending programs to cancel or reduce may be limited, although we do not currently anticipate that unavailability of financing in any circumstances would materially affect our spending on player salaries in any respect. Failure to successfully pursue our capital expenditure and other spending plans could materially and negatively affect our ability to compete effectively.Our Business Is Subject to Seasonal Fluctuations.The revenues of our MSG Sports and MSG Entertainment segments tend to be seasonal. For example, 40% of our MSG Entertainment segment's revenues and 8% of our consolidated revenues, net of intersegment eliminations in fiscal year 2012, were derived from our Radio City Christmas Spectacular franchise. Revenues of our MSG Entertainment segment are highest in the second quarter of our fiscal year when these performances primarily occur. As a result, MSG Entertainment earns a disproportionate amount of its revenue and operating income in the second quarter of each fiscal year. Similarly, because of the nature of the NBA and NHL playing seasons, revenues from our sports teams are concentrated in the second and third quarters of each fiscal year. Revenues from our business on a consolidated basis tend to be at their lowest in the first and fourth quarters of the fiscal year.Organized Labor Matters Could Negatively Impact Our Business and Our Results of Operations.Our business is dependent upon the efforts of unionized workers. Any labor disputes, such as strikes or lockouts, with the unions with which we have collective bargaining agreements could have a material negative effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows (including our ability to produce or present concerts, theatrical productions, sporting events and television programming).NBA players are covered by a CBA between the NBPA and the NBA. NHL players are covered by a CBA between the NHLPA and the NHL. Both the NHL and the NBA have experienced labor difficulties in the past and may have labor issues in the future. Labor difficulties may include players' strikes or management lockouts. For example, the NBA has experienced labor difficulties, including a lockout during the 1998-99 season, which resulted in the regular season being shortened from 82 to 50 games, and a lockout during the 2011-12 season, which resulted in the regular season being shortened from 82 games to 66 games. The NHL has also experienced labor difficulties, including a lockout during the 1994-95 NHL season, which resulted in the regular season being shortened from 84 to 48 games and a lockout beginning in September 2004, which resulted in the cancellation of the entire 2004-05 NHL season. NHL players, including those who play for the Rangers, are covered by a CBA between the NHL and the NHLPA that is in effect through September 15, 2012. The NHL and the NHLPA have been engaged in negotiations for a successor collective bargaining agreement. If these efforts are unsuccessful there is the potential for a work stoppage effective September 16, 2012, which could result in the loss of scheduled NHL games beginning with the 2012-13 NHL season. In addition, the terms of any successor NHL CBA could differ significantly from the current NHL CBA. Although the outcome of the negotiations cannot be determined at this time, the loss of games as a result of the absence of a CBA and/or the impact of the new terms of a CBA may have a material negative effect on our revenues, operating income and AOCF.The Unavailability of Satellites, Facilities and/or Systems upon Which We Rely Could Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business or Results of Operations.We use satellite and other systems to transmit our program services to Distributors. The distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. Notwithstanding certain back-up and redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted, including as a result of disasters that impair uplinks, downlinks or transmission facilities or the impairment of satellite or terrestrial facilities. Currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. If a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. In addition, we rely upon various third-party software or systems in the operation of our business, including, with respect to ticket sales, credit card processing, point of sale transactions, database, inventory, human resource management and financial systems. From time to time, certain of these arrangements may not be covered by long-term agreements. The failure or 29Table of Contentsunavailability of distribution facilities or these third-party services, depending upon its severity and duration, could have a material negative effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows.We May Become Subject to Infringement or Other Claims Relating to Our Content or Technology. From time to time, third parties may assert against us alleged intellectual property (e.g., copyright, trademark and patent) or other claims relating to our programming, productions, technologies or other content or material, some of which may be important to our business. In addition, our programming and productions could potentially subject us to claims of defamation or similar types of allegations. Any such claims, regardless of their merit, could cause us to incur significant costs. In addition, if we are unable to continue use of certain intellectual property rights, our revenue could be negatively impacted. There Is the Risk of Personal Injuries and Accidents in Connection with Our Venues, Which Could Subject Us to Personal Injury or Other Claims. There are inherent risks associated with producing and hosting events and operating, maintaining or renovating our venues. As a result, personal injuries, accidents and other incidents have occurred and may occur from time to time, which could subject us to claims and liabilities. Incidents in connection with events at any of our venues could also reduce attendance at our events, and cause a decrease in our revenue and operating income. While we seek to obtain contractual indemnities for events at our venues and we maintain insurance policies that provide coverage for incidents in the ordinary course of business, there can be no assurance that such indemnities or insurance will be adequate at all times and in all circumstances. We May Have a Significant Indemnity Obligation to Cablevision if the Distribution Is Treated as a Taxable Transaction. Prior to the Distribution, Cablevision received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") to the effect that, among other things, the Distribution and certain related transactions would qualify for tax-free treatment under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). Although a private letter ruling from the IRS generally is binding on the IRS, if the factual representations or assumptions made in the letter ruling request were untrue or incomplete in any material respect, Cablevision would not be able to rely on the ruling. Furthermore, the IRS will not rule on whether the Distribution satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under the Code. Rather, the ruling was based upon representations by Cablevision that these conditions were satisfied, and any inaccuracy in such representations could invalidate the ruling. If the Distribution does not qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then, in general, Cablevision would be subject to tax as if it had sold the common stock of our Company in a taxable sale for its fair market value. Cablevision's shareholders would be subject to tax as if they had received a distribution equal to the fair market value of our common stock that was distributed to them. It is expected that the amount of any such taxes to Cablevision's shareholders and Cablevision would be substantial. As part of the Distribution we have entered into a Tax Disaffiliation Agreement with Cablevision, which sets out each party's rights and obligations with respect to deficiencies and refunds, if any, of federal, state, local or foreign taxes for periods before and after the Distribution and related matters such as the filing of tax returns and the conduct of IRS and other audits. Pursuant to the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement, we are required to indemnify Cablevision for losses and tax liabilities of Cablevision that result from the breach of certain covenants that could cause the Distribution to be treated as a taxable transaction. If we are required to indemnify Cablevision under the circumstances set forth in the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities, which could have a material negative effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows.We Are Controlled by the Dolan Family.We have two classes of common stock:•Class B Common Stock, which is generally entitled to ten votes per share and is entitled collectively to elect 75% of our Board of Directors, and•Class A Common Stock, which is entitled to one vote per share and is entitled collectively to elect the remaining 25% of our Board of Directors.As of July 31, 2012, the Dolan family, including trusts for the benefit of members of the Dolan family, collectively own all of our Class B Common Stock, approximately 1.7% of our outstanding Class A Common Stock and approximately 69% of the total voting power of all our outstanding common stock. Of this amount, Charles F. Dolan, a director and the father of James L. Dolan, the Executive Chairman, and his spouse control approximately 59.5% of our outstanding Class B Common Stock, approximately 1% of our outstanding Class A Common Stock and approximately 41% of the total voting power of all our 30Table of Contentsoutstanding common stock. The members of the Dolan family holding Class B Common Stock have executed a voting agreement that has the effect of causing the voting power of the holders of our Class B Common Stock to be cast as a block with respect to all matters to be voted on by holders of Class B Common Stock. The Dolan family is able to prevent a change in control of our Company and no person interested in acquiring us will be able to do so without obtaining the consent of the Dolan family. Charles F. Dolan, members of his family and certain related family entities, by virtue of their stock ownership, have the power to elect all of our directors subject to election by holders of Class B Common Stock and are able collectively to control stockholder decisions on matters on which holders of all classes of our common stock vote together as a single class. These matters could include the amendment of some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and the approval of fundamental corporate transactions. In addition, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding shares of the Class B Common Stock, voting separately as a class, is required to approve: •the authorization or issuance of any additional shares of Class B Common Stock, and•any amendment, alteration or repeal of any of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation that adversely affects the powers, preferences or rights of the Class B Common Stock.As a result, Charles F. Dolan, members of his family and certain related family entities also collectively have the power to prevent such issuance or amendment. We Have Elected to Be a "controlled company" for The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC Purposes Which Allows Us Not to Comply with Certain of the Corporate Governance Rules of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC.Charles F. Dolan, members of his family and certain related family entities have entered into a Stockholders Agreement relating, among other things, to the voting of their shares of our Class B Common Stock. As a result, we are a "controlled company" under the corporate governance rules of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC ("NASDAQ") and our Board of Directors, as permitted by NASDAQ rules, has elected not to comply with the corporate governance rules of NASDAQ requiring: a majority of independent directors on our Board and an independent corporate governance and nominating committee.Future Stock Sales, Including as a Result of the Exercise of Registration Rights by Certain of Our Shareholders, Could Adversely Affect the Trading Price of Our Class A Common Stock.Certain parties have registration rights covering a portion of our shares. We have entered into registration rights agreements with Charles F. Dolan, members of his family, certain Dolan family interests and the Dolan Family Foundations that provide them with "demand" and "piggyback" registration rights with respect to approximately 15 million shares of Class A Common Stock, including shares issuable upon conversion of shares of Class B Common Stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of Class A Common Stock could adversely affect the market price of the Class A Common Stock and could impair our future ability to raise capital through an offering of our equity securities.Transfers and Ownership of Our Common Stock Are Subject to Restrictions Under Rules of the NBA and the NHL and Our Certificate of Incorporation Provides Us with Remedies Against Holders Who Do Not Comply with Those Restrictions.The Company is the owner of professional sports franchises in the NBA and the NHL. As a result, transfers and ownership of our Common Stock are subject to certain restrictions under the constituent documents of the NBA and the NHL as well as the Company's consent agreements with the NBA and the NHL in connection with their approval of the Distribution. These restrictions are described under "Description of Capital Stock Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock Transfer Restrictions" in our registration statement on Form 10 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In order to protect the Company and its NBA and NHL franchises from sanctions that might be imposed by the NBA or the NHL as a result of violations of these restrictions, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, if a transfer of shares of our Common Stock to a person or the ownership of shares of our Common Stock by a person requires approval or other action by a league and such approval or other action was not obtained or taken as required, the Company shall have the right by written notice to the holder to require the holder to dispose of the shares of Common Stock which triggered the need for such approval. If a holder fails to comply with such a notice, in addition to any other remedies that may be available, the Company may redeem the shares at 85% of the fair market value of those shares.We Share Certain Key Executives with Cablevision Which Means Those Executives Will Not Devote Their Full Time and Attention to Our Affairs and the Overlap May Give Rise to Conflicts; Certain Directors Are Also Directors and/or Key Executives of each of Cablevision and AMC Networks Inc.Our Executive Chairman, James L. Dolan, also serves as the President and Chief Executive Officer of Cablevision and our 31Table of ContentsPresident and Chief Executive Officer, Hank J. Ratner also serves as a Vice Chairman of Cablevision. This arrangement is similar to the situation prior to the spin-off of the Company from Cablevision whereby Messrs. Dolan and Ratner have served as senior officers of both companies. As a result, the two most senior officers of the Company do not devote their full time and attention to the Company's affairs. In addition, eight members of our Board of Directors are also directors of Cablevision, seven members of our Board of Directors are also directors of AMC Networks Inc., an affiliate of the Company, and several of our directors serve as employees of Cablevision and AMC Networks Inc. concurrently with their service on our Board of Directors. These officers and directors may have actual or apparent conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting MSG and either Cablevision or AMC Networks Inc., as applicable. For example, the potential for a conflict of interest exists when we on the one hand, and Cablevision or AMC Networks Inc. on the other hand, look at acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be suitable for both companies. Also, conflicts may arise if there are issues or disputes under the commercial arrangements that exist between Cablevision or AMC Networks Inc. and us. In addition, certain of our directors and officers have Cablevision or AMC Networks Inc. stock and options and/or Cablevision or AMC Networks Inc. cash performance awards, including Messrs. Charles F. Dolan, James L. Dolan and Hank J. Ratner. These ownership interests could create actual, apparent or potential conflicts of interest when these individuals are faced with decisions that could have different implications for our Company and Cablevision or AMC Networks Inc. See "Certain Relationships and Potential Conflicts of Interest" in our Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 13, 2011 for a discussion of certain procedures we instituted to help ameliorate such potential conflicts with Cablevision and/or AMC Networks Inc. that may arise. Our Overlapping Directors and Executive Officers with Cablevision and AMC Networks Inc. May Result in the Diversion of Corporate Opportunities and Other Conflicts to Cablevision and AMC Networks Inc. and Provisions in Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation May Provide Us No Remedy in That Circumstance. The Company's amended and restated certificate of incorporation acknowledges that directors and officers of the Company may also be serving as directors, officers, employees, consultants or agents of Cablevision and its subsidiaries and that the Company may engage in material business transactions with such entities. The Company has renounced its rights to certain business opportunities and the Company's amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that no director or officer of the Company who is also serving as a director, officer, employee, consultant or agent of Cablevision and its subsidiaries will be liable to the Company or its shareholders for breach of any fiduciary duty that would otherwise exist by reason of the fact that any such individual directs a corporate opportunity (other than certain limited types of opportunities set forth in our certificate of incorporation) to Cablevision or any of its subsidiaries instead of the Company, or does not refer or communicate information regarding such corporate opportunities to the Company. The Company's Board of Directors has adopted resolutions putting in place arrangements similar to the foregoing provisions on corporate opportunities with respect to directors and/or officers of the Company who are also directors or officers of AMC Networks Inc., a company which Cablevision spun off to its stockholders on June 30, 2011. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also expressly validates certain contracts, agreements, assignments and transactions (and amendments, modifications or terminations thereof) between the Company and Cablevision and/or any of its subsidiaries and, to the fullest extent permitted by law, provides that the actions of the overlapping directors or officers in connection therewith are not breaches of fiduciary duties owed to the Company, any of its subsidiaries or their respective shareholders. See "Description of Capital Stock — Certain Corporate Opportunities and Conflicts" in our registration statement on Form 10 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.