ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Certain statements in this Form 10-K, as well as other statements made by us from time to time, contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially. The considerations listed below represent certain important factors we believe could cause such results to differ. These considerations are not intended to represent a complete list of the general or specific risks that may affect the Company. It should be recognized that other risk factors (including those described in Item 7 — “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”) may be significant, presently or in the future, and the risks set forth below may affect us to a greater extent than indicated. We disclaim any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements. We face risks relating to competition. Competition is intense in the footwear industry. Certain of our competitors are large and have greater financial, marketing and technological resources than we do. Our success depends upon our ability to remain competitive in the areas of style, price and quality, among others, and in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing merchandise and fashion trends and consumer preferences and demands in a timely manner. If we fail to gauge the fashion tastes of consumers, differentiate and effectively market our products or build inventory for products that are not accepted by consumers, this could adversely affect our sales or profit margins. If that occurs, we may have substantial unsold inventory that we may have to mark down in order to sell, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Competition in the retail footwear industry has increased, thereby elevating the level of pressure on us to maintain the value proposition of our stores, footwear and shopping experience. The industry has also been impacted by retailers aggressively competing on the basis of price. Accordingly, there has been competitive pressure on us to keep our selling prices low. If we are unable to respond effectively to these competitive pressures, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. 10 BROWN SHOE COMPANY, INC. 2006 FORM 10-K We face risks relating to changes in consumer preferences. The footwear industry is subject to rapidly changing consumer demands and fashion trends. Accordingly, our success in both our wholesale and retail operations depends in large part on our ability to anticipate, understand and react to changing consumer demands. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. The success of our products, merchandising strategies and marketing strategies and programs will also depend on a favorable reception by our customers. Furthermore, consumer preferences and purchasing patterns may be influenced by consumers’ disposable income. Consequently, the success of our operations may depend to a significant extent upon a number of factors affecting disposable income, including general economic conditions and factors such as employment, business conditions, consumer confidence, interest rates and taxation. We rely on foreign sources of production. General We rely entirely on foreign sourcing for our footwear products. We source footwear products from independent third-party manufacturing facilities located in China and Brazil and, to a lesser extent, from Vietnam, Italy and other countries. Typically, we are a major customer of these third-party manufacturing facilities. However, there is substantial competition in the footwear industry for quality footwear manufacturers. Accordingly, our future results will partly depend on maintaining close working relationships with our principal manufacturers. As is common in the industry, we do not have any long-term contracts with our independent third-party foreign manufacturers. We cannot ensure that we will not experience difficulties with such manufacturers, including reduction in the availability of production capacity, failure to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. Foreign manufacturing is subject to a number of risks, including transportation delays and interruptions, work stoppages, political instability, expropriation, nationalization, foreign currency fluctuations, changing economic conditions, the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers and changes in governmental policies. We require our third-party foreign manufacturers to meet our standards and footwear-industry standards for working conditions and other matters, including compliance with applicable labor and other laws, before we place orders with them to manufacture products for us. A failure by any of our third-party manufacturers to adhere to these standards or laws could cause us to incur additional costs for our products and could cause negative publicity and harm our business and reputation. We cannot predict whether additional United States or foreign customs quotas, duties, taxes or other changes or restrictions will be imposed upon the importation of non-domestically produced products in the future or what effect such actions could have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, our products depend on the availability of leather and other raw materials. Any significant shortage of quantities or increases in the cost of leather or other materials or resources used to produce our products could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. China We rely heavily on manufacturing facilities located in China. Historically, the trade relationship between the United States and China has not had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There have been, however, and may in the future be, threats to the trade relationships between the United States and China. There can be no assurance the trade relationship between the United States and China will not worsen, and if it does worsen, that our financial condition or results of operations will not be materially adversely affected thereby. Further, we cannot predict the effect that changes in the economic and political conditions in China could have on the economics of doing business with Chinese manufacturers. For example, manufacturing capacity in China may shift from footwear to other industries with manufacturing margins that are perceived to be higher. Although we believe we could find alternative manufacturing sources for those products we currently source from China through our existing relationships with independent third-party manufacturing facilities in other countries, the loss of a substantial portion of our Chinese manufacturing capacity would have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, the occurrence of a natural disaster such as an earthquake or hurricane or the outbreak of a pandemic disease in China could severely interfere with the manufacture of our products and have a material adverse effect on the Company. 11 BROWN SHOE COMPANY, INC. 2006 FORM 10-K Currency Although we purchase products from certain foreign manufacturers in United States dollars and otherwise engage in foreign currency hedging transactions, we cannot ensure that we will not experience cost variations with respect to exchange rate changes. We face risks relating to customer concentration. Our wholesale customers include department stores, national chains and mass merchandisers. Several of our customers operate multiple department store divisions. Further, we often sell multiple brands and licensed and private-label footwear to these same department stores, national chains and mass merchandisers. While we believe purchasing decisions in many cases are made independently by the buyers and merchandisers of each of the customers, a decision by our customers that operate multiple department stores, national chains and/or mass merchandisers or any other significant customer to decrease the amount of footwear products purchased from us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The retail industry has recently experienced increased consolidation. As this trend continues, our customers will likely seek more favorable terms for their purchases of our products, which could limit our ability to raise prices or achieve our profit goals. In turn, we may not be able to recoup raw material or other cost increases. Sales on terms less favorable to us than our current terms will have an adverse effect on our profitability, and consolidation could lead to a decrease in the number of stores that carry our products. In addition, larger retailers are deciding to source more of their products directly from manufacturers overseas and reducing their reliance on wholesalers. If retailers continue to increase their direct sourcing of footwear from overseas, this could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We face risks relating to our licensed and owned intellectual property. Licenses The success of our Wholesale Operations division has to date been due, in part, to our ability to attract and retain licensors which have strong, well-recognized brands and trademarks. Our license agreements are generally for an initial term of two to three years, subject to renewal, but even where we have longer-term licenses or have an option to renew a license, such agreements are dependent upon our achieving certain results in marketing the licensed products. While we believe we will generally be able to decide whether to renew our existing licenses and obtain new licenses in the future, there can be no assurance we will be able to renew our current licenses or obtain new licenses. In addition, certain of our license agreements are not exclusive, and new or existing competitors may obtain similar licenses. Many of our license agreements require minimum royalty payments. Our ability to generate sufficient sales and profitability to cover these minimum royalty requirements is not guaranteed; and if sales of such products are not sufficient to generate these minimum payments, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Trademarks We believe that our trademarks and trade names are important to our business and are generally sufficient to permit us to carry on our business as presently conducted and planned. We cannot, however, know whether we will be able to secure protection for our intellectual property in the future or if that protection will be adequate for future operations. Further, we face the risk of ineffective protection of intellectual property rights in jurisdictions where we source and distribute our products. We also cannot be certain that our activities do not infringe on the proprietary rights of others. If we are compelled to prosecute infringing parties, defend our intellectual property or defend ourselves from intellectual property claims made by others, we may face significant expenses and liability. We are dependent on leased locations. Our Famous Footwear and Specialty Retail segments operate chains of footwear stores. We lease all of these stores. Accordingly, the success of our operations, in part, is dependent on our ability to secure affordable, long-term leases in desirable locations and to secure renewals of such leases. Although we believe that our current leases can be renewed on acceptable terms, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully negotiate lease renewals on existing stores or to obtain acceptable terms for new stores in desirable locations, and the failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our ability to grow our business and our financial condition and results of operations. 12 BROWN SHOE COMPANY, INC. 2006 FORM 10-K We are dependent on major branded suppliers. Our Famous Footwear retail chain purchases a substantial portion of its footwear products from major branded suppliers. While we believe our relationships with our current suppliers are good, the loss of any of our major suppliers or product developed exclusively for Famous Footwear could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As is common in the industry, we do not have any long-term contracts with our suppliers. In addition, the success of our financial performance is dependent on the ability of Famous Footwear to obtain products from its suppliers on a timely basis and on acceptable terms. We are subject to periodic litigation and other regulatory proceedings. We are a defendant from time to time in lawsuits and regulatory actions (including environmental matters) relating to our business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings are expensive and will require that we devote substantial resources and executive time to defend the Company. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” for further discussion of pending matters. We cannot assure the successful implementation of our growth strategy. Our growth strategy includes continued expansion of our Famous Footwear store base, continued growth in the distribution of our portfolio of owned and licensed brands, and potential acquisitions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement any or all of these strategies, which could lead to a decline in our results of operations. We may face transitional challenges with acquisitions. Periodically, we pursue acquisitions of other companies or businesses. Although we review the records of acquisition candidates, such an in-depth review of the records may not reveal existing or potential problems. As a result, we may not become familiar enough with the business to fully assess its strengthens and weaknesses; and accordingly, we may assume adverse operating conditions and/or unanticipated liabilities, and the business may not perform as well as expected. We face the risk that the returns on acquisitions will not support the expenditures or indebtedness incurred to acquire such businesses. We also face the risk that we will not be able to integrate acquisitions into our existing operations effectively without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems. Integration may be hindered by, among other things, differing procedures, including internal controls, business practices and technology systems. We may need to divert more management resources to integration than we planned, which may adversely affect our ability to pursue other profitable activities. We may be unable to successfully implement our strategic earnings enhancement plan. As announced in 2006, we have begun to review and implement strategic initiatives as part of our strategic earnings enhancement plan, with the goal of increasing earnings and reallocating resources and investment to drive consumer preference. If we are not able to implement our strategic earnings enhancement plan effectively by, among other things: · restructuring administrative and support areas · redesigning logistics and distribution platforms · eliminating operational redundancies · realigning strategic priorities · refining the supply chain process and enhancing inventory utilization our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be unable to retain senior management and to recruit and retain other key associates. Our success depends on the ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified management, administrative, product development and sales personnel to support existing operations and future growth. Competition for qualified personnel in the footwear industry is intense and we compete for these individuals with other companies that in many cases have substantial financial and other resources. The loss of the services of any members of senior management, or the inability to attract and retain other qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 13 BROWN SHOE COMPANY, INC. 2006 FORM 10-K We are subject to rising insurance costs. We self-insure a significant portion of our expected losses under our workers’ compensation, employment practices, health, disability, general, auto and property liability programs. The liabilities associated with the risks that are retained by us are estimated by considering our historical claims experience and data from actuarial sources. The estimated accruals for these liabilities could be affected if claims differ from the assumptions used and historical trends. Unanticipated changes in the estimates underlying our reserves for these losses, such as claims experience, inflation and regulatory changes, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on our information technology systems. Our computer network and systems are essential to all aspects of our operations. If there were to be a major disruption of our information technology operations, we have emergency back-up facility arrangements and procedures in place. However, if a disruption is of a nature that delays or prohibits implementation of back-up arrangements, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our retail stores process debit and credit card transactions. We believe we have established appropriate controls to protect the consumers’ personal confidential information gathered when a debit or credit card is utilized. However, in the event that such confidential information is misused or obtained by an unauthorized third-party, we could be subject to negative publicity that could harm our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. We face risks that our quarterly sales and earnings may fluctuate, which may result in volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly sales and earnings can vary due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales and earnings. In our wholesale business, sales of footwear are dependent on orders from our major customers and they may change delivery schedules, change the mix of products they order or cancel orders without penalty. In addition, our wholesale customers set the delivery schedule for shipments of our products, which could cause shifts of sales between quarters. Our Famous Footwear retail business is seasonally weighted to the back-to-school season, which falls into our fiscal third quarter. In addition, our annualized tax rate is based on projections of our domestic and international operating results for the year, which we review and revise as necessary each quarter. As a result of these specific and other general factors, our operating results will vary from quarter to quarter and the results for any particular quarter may not be indicative of results for the full year. Any shortfall in sales or earnings from the levels expected by investors or securities analysts could cause a decrease in the trading price of our stock. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 