D. Risk factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this annual report. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business We generate a large percentage of our revenues from a limited number of customers and our business will suffer if sales to such customers decline. Our five largest customers, namely Foshan City Jundian Ceramics Co., Ltd., Xiamen Tongying Trading Co., Ltd., Beijing Zhihe Construction Industry Trading Co., Ltd., Liaoning Yatong Logistics Co. Ltd. and Chengdu City Dehui Construction Materials Co., Ltd. accounted for an aggregate of 31.5%, 25.0%, and 18.0% of our total revenue in fiscal years 2008, 2009 and 2010 respectively. We are particularly exposed to the credit risks of these customers as defaults in payment by our major customers would have a significant impact on our cash flows and financial results. Our agreements with our major customers do not specify minimum sales volume. There is no assurance that we will continue to retain these customers or that they will continue to purchase our products at their current levels in the future. If there is any reduction or cancellation of purchase orders by these customers for any reason, including a fall in demand from our customers’ downstream developer clients, or a termination of relationship with these customers, our revenues will be negatively impacted. Payment defaults by the customers to whom we extend credit would harm our cash flows and results. Our financial position and profitability is dependent on the creditworthiness of our customers. We are exposed to the credit risks of our customers and this risk increases the larger the orders are. We usually offer our customers credit terms of approximately 90 days. Although there has not been any material collection problem for trade receivables or bad debts in the last three fiscal years, there is no assurance that we will not encounter doubtful or bad debts in the future. We have not established any bad debt reserves to mitigate the financial impact of uncollected accounts receivable. Should we experience any unexpected delay or difficulty in collecting receivables from our customers, our cash flows and financial results may be adversely affected. 4 If our suppliers are unable to fulfill our orders for raw materials, we may lose business. Our suppliers are all located in the PRC. Our purchases of raw materials is based on expected production levels, after taking into consideration, amongst other factors, sales forecasts and actual orders from our customers. To ensure that we are able to deliver quality products at competitive prices, we need to secure sufficient quantities of raw materials at acceptable prices and quality on a timely basis. Typically, we do not enter into any long-term supply agreements with our suppliers. There is no assurance that these suppliers will continue to supply us in the future. In the event our suppliers are unable to fulfill our orders or meet our requirements, we may not be able to find timely replacements at acceptable prices and quality, and this will delay the fulfillment of our customers’ orders. Consequently, our reputation may be negatively affected, leading to a loss of business and affecting our ability to attract new businesses. Increases in the price of raw materials will negatively impact our profitability. In fiscal years 2008, 2009, and 2010, our cost of raw materials, which consist of clay (comprising mainly of kaolin, flint and feldspar), coal (used to heat our kilns), coloring materials and glazing materials, accounted for approximately 59.8%, 53.7%, and 67.4% of our total cost of sales, respectively. The price of clay, coal, coloring materials and glazing materials may fluctuate due to factors such as global supply and demand for such raw materials and changes in global economic conditions. Coal accounted for approximately 35.1%, 31.5%, and 30.0% of our total raw material costs in fiscal years 2008, 2009, and 2010, respectively. Any shortages or interruptions in the supply of clay, coal, coloring materials or glazing materials will result in an increase in the cost of production, thus increasing our cost of sales. If we are not able t o pass on such an increase to our customers or are unable to find alternative sources of clay, coal, coloring materials, or glazing materials or appropriate substitute raw materials at comparable prices, our operations and financial performance will be adversely affected. We are dependent on our management team and any loss of our key management personnel without timely and suitable replacements may reduce our revenues and profits. Our chief executive officer, Huang Jia Dong, and our Sales Deputy General Manager, Su Pei Zhi, have worked with our company since founding it over seventeen years ago. Accordingly, our success is dependent to a large extent on our ability to retain Messrs. Huang and Su, who are responsible for formulating and implementing our growth, corporate development and overall business strategies. Neither Mr. Huang nor Mr. Su currently owns any shares or any other equity investment in us. Our business is also dependent on our executive officers who are responsible for implementing our business plans and driving growth. Please refer to “Directors, Senior Management and Employees” herein for more information about our directors and officers. The demand for such experienced personnel is intense and the search for personnel with the relevant skills set can be time consuming. The loss of our key management personnel without timely and suitable replacements may reduce our revenues and profits. Failure to compete successfully with our competitors and new entrants to the ceramics industry in the PRC may result in China Ceramics losing market share. We operate in a competitive and fragmented industry. Given the growth potential of our industry, there is no assurance that we will not face competition from our existing competitors and new entrants. We compete with a variety of companies, some of which have advantages that include: longer operating history, larger clientele base, superior products, better access to capital, personnel and technology, or are better entrenched. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new and emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or succeed in developing products that are more effective or less costly than our products. Any increase in competition could have a negative impact on our pricing (thus eroding our profit margins) and reduce our market share. If we are unable to compete effectively with our existing and future competitors and do not adapt quickly to changing market conditions, we may lose market share. 5 We have not purchased product liability insurance and any loss resulting from product liability claims must be paid by us. Accidents may arise as a result of defects in our products. If there are any defects in the products designed and/or manufactured by us, we may face claims from our customers or third parties for the personal injury or property damage suffered as a result of such defects. We have not purchased insurance coverage for product liability or third party liability and are therefore not covered or compensated by insurance in respect of losses, damages, claims and liabilities arising from or in connection with product liability or third party liability. Our production facilities may be affected by power shortages which could result in a loss of business. Our production facilities consume substantial amounts of electrical power, which is the principal source of energy for our manufacturing operations. Although we have a back-up generator at both our production facilities, we may experience occasional temporary power shortages disrupting production due to power rationing activities conducted by the authorities, thunderstorms or other natural events beyond our control. Accordingly, these production disruptions could result in a loss of business. Our research and development efforts may not result in marketable products. Our research and development team develops products which we have identified as having good potential in the market. There is no assurance that we will not experience delays in future product developments. There is also no assurance that the products which we are currently developing or may develop in the future will be successful or that we will be able to market these new products to our customers successfully. If our new products are unable to gain the acceptance of our customers or potential customers, we will not be able to generate future sales from our investment in research and development. We may not be able to ensure the successful implementation of our future plans and strategies, resulting in reduced financial performance. We intend to expand our production capacity, expand our market presence and explore opportunities in strategic investments or alliances and acquisitions. These initiatives involve various risks including, but not limited to, the investment costs in setting up new production facilities, offices and sales offices and working capital requirements. There is no assurance that any future plan can be successfully implemented as the successful execution could depend on several factors, some of which are not within our control. Failure to successfully implement our future plans or to effectively manage cost, may lead to a material adverse change in our operating environment or affect our ability to respond to market or industry changes, resulting in reduced financial performance. If we fail to successfully complete and integrate strategic acquisitions, including our recent acquisition of Hengdali, we may not be able to expand our scope of operations or increase our revenues. In January 2010, we completed the acquisition of Hengdali and are continuing to integrate our operations with the operations of Hengdali. In the future, we may expand our production capacity through strategic acquisitions. Expansion through strategic acquisitions is subject to a number of risks: 6 · We may fail to locate suitable acquisition candidates with business operations that are consistent with our growth strategy and at prices and on terms that are satisfactory. Alternatively, we may have to compete with other Chinese ceramic tile producers in bidding to acquire production facilities or companies in regions where we expect demand for production of our products to increase. Some of these competitors may have greater capital resources than us. · To finance part or all of our acquisition costs, we may need to issue shares, incur debt and assume contingent liabilities. Such acquisitions may also create additional expenses related to amortizing intangible assets. Any of these factors might harm our financial results and lead to volatility in the price of our shares. Further, any financing we might need for future acquisitions may be available only on terms that restrict our business or impose costs that decrease our profits. · Any integration of acquisitions, including the continuing integration of Hengdali, may produce unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business. Among others, we may be unable to discover during due diligence all contingent liabilities and adverse issues, giving rise to unexpected delays or difficulties during integration. · Some acquisition targets, due to their limited operating history, may possess different technological standards and operational models than ours. We may need to devote significant time and resources upon completion of an acquisition to amend and transform the acquired target. We may, prior to the implementation of an acquisition, fail to predict the appropriate amount of time and resources required to complete such transformation. It is even possible that we may not be able to rectify the situation at all. Due to the foregoing uncertainties, we may be subject to substantial costs and unexpected delays arising out of an acquisition. We plan to construct the manufacturing facilities operated by Hengdali in Gaoan, Jiangxi Province (the “Hengdali facility”) in three phases. So far, we have completed the construction of the first phase (with an output capacity of 10 million square meters of tile per year). Currently, we are in the process of applying for acceptance permits from relevant local governmental authorities including, without limitation, the environmental protection authority and the fire administration, for the first phase. However, as the timing and procedures for issuing such permits is under the control of the local governmental authorities, we cannot assure you that we will successfully obtain such permits, or that our operation will not be affected if we fail to obtain such permits for the continuation of the operations of Hengdali. Our applications for such permits are currently being processed. As we are currently operating without the permits, the relevant authorities may suspend our Hengdali operations and may impose fines, though they have not done so to date. We believe our future success depends on our ability to increase our production capacity by expanding our existing facilities and acquiring or developing new production facilities. If we are unable to grow our operations by expanding our facilities or through strategic acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from past and future acquisitions, we may not be able to achieve the growth we anticipate and our overall business results may be negatively affected. 7 We may lose revenue if our intellectual property rights are not protected and counterfeit HD, Hengda, HDL, Hengdeli or TOERTO brand products are sold in the market. We believe our intellectual property rights are important to our success and competitive position. A portion of our products are manufactured and marketed under our “HD” or “Hengda,” “HDL” or “Hengdeli,” “TOERTO” and “WULIQIAO” labels. We have filed our labels as trademarks in the PRC. WULIQIAO is a trademark owned by Fujian Province Jinjiang City Hengda Construction Materials Co., Ltd. Hengda signed a Trademark Licensing Contract with Fujian Province Jinjiang City Hengda Construction Materials Co., Ltd. and has been licensed the exclusive right to use WULIQIAO during the terms of that trademark. In addition, we own four utility model patents, have exclusive licenses to use 11 design patents owned by our CEO, Huang Jia Dong, and have certain trade secrets and unpaten ted proprietary technology. We cannot assure you that there will not be any unauthorized usage or misuse of our trademarks and patent rights or that our intellectual property rights will be adequately protected as it may be difficult and costly to monitor any infringements of our intellectual property rights in the PRC. If we cannot adequately protect our intellectual property, we may lose revenue. In addition, we believe the branding of our products and the brand equity in our “HD” or “Hengda,” “HDL or Hengdeli,” “TOERTO” and “WULIQIAO” trademarks is critical to our expansion effort and the continued success of our business. Our efforts to build our brand may be undermined by the sale of counterfeit goods. The counterfeiting of our products may increase if our products become more popular. In order to preserve and enforce our intellectual property rights, we may have to resort to litigation against the infringing or counterfeiting parties. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources which may have an effect on our financial performance. We may lose revenue if Huang Jia Dong does not continue to allow us to use the design patents held in his name. We use 11 design patents owned by our chief executive officer, Huang Jia Dong pursuant to license agreements of indefinite term and for no consideration. However, we have not registered the license agreements and, in the event Mr. Huang breaches such license agreements and does not continue to allow us to use such design patents, we would not be able to enforce the license agreements and would therefore not be able protect our intellectual property rights and our operations may suffer. We may inadvertently infringe third-party intellectual property rights, which could negatively impact our business and financial results. We are not aware of, nor have we received any claims from third parties for, any violations or infringements of intellectual property rights of third parties by us as of the date of this Annual Report. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that as we develop new product designs and production methods, we would not inadvertently infringe the intellectual property rights of others or others would not assert infringement claims against us or claim that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. Claims against us, even if untrue or baseless, could result in significant costs, legal or otherwise, cause product shipment delays, require us to develop non-infringing products, enter into licensing agreements or may be a distraction to our management. Licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the event of a successful claim of intellectual property rights infringement against us and our failure or inability to develop non-infringing products or to license the infringed intellectual property rights in a timely or cost-effective basis, our business and/or financial results will be negatively impacted. Our manufacturing operations are partially dependent upon outsourcing aspects of our manufacturing operations, making us vulnerable to supply problems and price fluctuations, which could harm our business. We outsource certain aspects of our manufacturing operations to meet the demand for our products, which, despite the additional production from Hengdali, currently exceeds our current capacity. We currently outsource to the following original equipment manufacturers: Fujian Jinjiang Xinrong Ceramics Co., Ltd. and Jinjiang Jinzhuang Ceramics Co., Ltd., to manufacture and supply basic porcelain ceramics tiles. 8 There can be no assurance that these third parties will meet their obligations. Our manufacturers and suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing due to a variety of reasons, including failure to procure their raw material on time, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with applicable regulations, equipment malfunction and environmental factors, any of which could delay or impede their ability to meet our demand. Our reliance on these outside manufacturers and suppliers also subjects us to other risks that could harm our business, including: · third party manufacturers may not manufacture products to our standards, which could cause delays in the shipment of our products or our shipping defective products if we do not catch the defects in a timely fashion; · we may not be able to obtain adequate supply in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms; · we may have difficulty locating and qualifying alternative manufacturers; · our third party manufacturers manufacture products for a range of customers, and fluctuations in demand may affect their ability to deliver products to us in a timely manner; and · our third party manufacturers may encounter financial hardships unrelated to our orders, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements. Any interruption or delay in the supply of materials or products, or our inability to obtain materials or products from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and cause our customers to cancel orders. The PRC government has recently introduced certain policy and regulatory measures to control the rapid increase in housing prices and cool down the real estate market and may adopt further measures in the future. Our business depends on the level of business activity in the property development and construction industries that use our products in their operations in the PRC. Our products are sold to customers in the property development and construction industries. If the property and construction industries fall into a recession in the future, the demand for construction materials, such as ceramic tiles, may consequently decrease and have a significant adverse effect on our business. The PRC government has committed to taking steps to regulate real estate development, promote the healthy development of the real estate industry in China, and strengthen the supervision over land for real estate development purposes. For example, in his 2010 annual report to the National People’s Congress, Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao pledged to curb the rise of housing prices in certain cities to increase the availability of affordable housing. The full effect of such policies on the real estate industry and our business will depend in large part on the implementation and interpretation of the circulars by governmental agencies, local governments, and banks involved in the real estate industry. We cannot be certain that the PRC government will not issue additional and more stringent regulations or measures or that agencies and bank s will not adopt restrictive measures or practices in response to PRC governmental policies and regulations, which could negatively affect the main industries we serve in the PRC, and thereby harm our sales. 9 Our manufacturing activities are dependent upon availability of skilled and unskilled labor, a deficiency of which could result in a reduction in profits. Our manufacturing activities are labor intensive and dependent on the availability of skilled and unskilled labor in large numbers. Large labor intensive operations call for good monitoring and maintenance of cordial relations. Non-availability of labor, poor labor management and/or any disputes between the labor and management may result in a reduction in profits. Further, we rely on contractors who engage on-site laborers for performance of many of our unskilled operations. The scarcity or unavailability of contract laborers may affect our operations and financial performance. We face increasing labor costs and other costs of production in the PRC, which could limit our profitability. The ceramic tile manufacturing industry is labor intensive. Labor costs in China have been increasing in recent years and our labor costs in the PRC could continue to increase in the future. If labor costs in the PRC continue to increase, our production costs will likely increase which may in turn affect the selling prices of our products. We may not be able to pass on these increased costs to consumers by increasing the selling prices of our products in light of competitive pressure in the markets where we operate. In such circumstances, our profit margin may decrease. Violation of Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or China anti-corruption law could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States public companies from bribing or making prohibited payments to foreign officials to obtain or retain business. PRC law also strictly prohibits bribery of government officials. While we take precautions to educate our employees about the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Chinese anti-corruption law, there can be no assurance that we or the employees or agents of our subsidiaries will not engage in such conduct, for which we may be held responsible. If that were to occur, we could suffer penalties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risk Factors Relating to Operations In China We are dependent on political, economic, regulatory and social conditions in the PRC. Approximately 93.7% of our revenue in each of the last three fiscal years was derived from the PRC market and we anticipate that the PRC market will continue to be the major source of revenue for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, any significant slowdown in the PRC economy or decline in demand for our products from our customers in the PRC will have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Furthermore, as our operations and production facilities are located in the PRC, any unfavorable changes in the social and/or political conditions may also adversely affect our business and operations. While the current policy of the PRC government seems to be one of economic reform to encourage foreign investments and greater economic decentralization, there is no assurance that such a policy will continue to prevail in the future. There is no assurance that our operations will not be adversely affected should there be any policy changes. 10 We are subject to risks related to the laws and regulations of the PRC and the interpretation and implementation thereof. Our business and operations, as well as those of our customers and suppliers in the PRC, are subject to the laws and regulations promulgated by relevant PRC governmental authorities. The PRC government is still in the process of developing a comprehensive set of laws and regulations in the course of the PRC’s transformation from a centrally planned economy to a more free market oriented economy. As the legal system in the PRC is still in flux, laws and regulations or their interpretation may be subject to change. Furthermore, any change in the political and economic policy of the PRC government may also result in similar changes in the laws and regulations or the interpretation thereof. Such changes may adversely affect our operations and business in the PRC. The PRC legal system is a codified legal system comprising written laws, regulations, circulars, administrative directives, and internal guidelines as well as judicial interpretations. Decided cases do not form part of the legal structure of the PRC and thus have no binding effect. As such, the administration of PRC laws and regulations may be subject to a certain degree of discretion by the authorities. This has resulted in the outcome of dispute resolutions not having the level of consistency or predictability as in other countries with more developed legal systems. Due to such inconsistency and unpredictability, if we should be involved in any legal dispute in the PRC, we may experience difficulties in obtaining legal redress or in enforcing our legal rights. From time to time, changes in law, registration requirements, and regulations or the implementation thereof may also require us to obtain additional approvals and licenses from the PRC authorities for carrying out our operations in the PRC which would incur additional expenses in order to comply with such requirements and in turn affect our financial performance with the increase in our business costs. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that approvals, registrations, or licenses will be granted to us promptly or at all. If we experience delays in obtaining or are unable to obtain such required approvals, registrations, or licenses, our operations and business in the PRC, and hence our overall financial performance will be adversely affected. Our business activities are subject to certain PRC laws and regulations. As our production and operations are carried out in the PRC, we are subject to certain PRC laws and regulations. In addition, being a wholly foreign-owned enterprise, we are required to comply with certain laws and regulations. Pursuant to PRC laws and regulations, the breach or non-compliance with such laws and regulations may result in the PRC authorities suspending, withdrawing or terminating our business license, causing us to cease production of all or certain of our products, and this would materially and adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our corporate affairs in the PRC are governed by our articles of association and the corporate and foreign investment laws and regulations of the PRC. The principles of the PRC laws relating to matters such as the fiduciary duties of directors and other corporate governance matters and foreign investment laws in the PRC are relatively new. Hence, the enforcement of investors or shareholders’ rights under the articles of association of a PRC company and the interpretation of the relevant laws relating to corporate governance matters remain largely untested in the PRC. PRC foreign exchange control may limit our ability to utilize our profits effectively and affect our ability to receive dividends and other payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Hengda is a foreign investment enterprise, or “FIE,” and is subject to the rules and regulations in the PRC on currency conversion. In the PRC, State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, regulates the conversion of the RMB into foreign currencies. Currently, FIEs are required to apply to SAFE for “Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates for Foreign Investment Enterprise”. With such registration certifications (which need to be renewed annually), FIEs are allowed to open foreign currency accounts including the “current account” and “capital account”. Currently, conversion of currency within the scope of the “current account” (e.g. remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends, etc.) can be effected without requiring the approval of SAFE. However, conversion of currency in the “capital account” (e.g. for capital items such as direct investments, loans, securities, etc.) still requires the approval of SAFE. 11 On October 21, 2005, SAFE promulgated the “Notice on Issues concerning Foreign Exchange Management in Financing by PRC Residents by Overseas Special Purpose Vehicle and Return Investments” (the “No. 75 Notice”). The No. 75 Notice came into effect on November 1, 2005 and requires the following matters, among others, to be complied with: every PRC domestic resident who establishes or controls an overseas special purpose vehicle, or “SPV,” must apply to the local bureau of SAFE for an “overseas investment foreign exchange registration.” Every PRC domestic resident of an SPV who has completed the “overseas investment foreign exchange registration”, or “Registrant,” must make an application to the local bureau of SAFE to amend their registration particulars upon (i) the injection of any PRC domestic assets or the equity interests of any PRC domestic company owned by the PRC domestic resident into the SPV, and (ii) the implementation of any overseas equity fund-raising by the SPV following an injection of PRC domestic assets or the equity interests of a PRC domestic company; every Registrant must apply to the local bureau of SAFE for change of registration particulars or recordation within 30 days after the occurrence of any capital increase or reduction, changes in shareholdings or share swap, merger, long-term investment in equities or debentures, guarantee of foreign indebtedness and other major capital changes not involving “return investment”, undertaken by an SPV; and every Registrant must repatriate, within 180 days, dividends or profits which he receives from an SPV and/or income derived from changes in the shareholding of an SPV. There can be no assurance that SAFE will not continue to issue new rules and regulations and/or further interpretations of the No. 75 Notice that will strengthen the foreign exchange control. As we are located in the PRC and all of our sales are denominated in RMB, our ability to pay dividends or make other distributions may be restricted by PRC foreign exchange control restrictions. There can be no assurance that the relevant regulations will not be amended to our detriment and that our ability to distribute dividends will not be adversely affected. Introduction of new laws or changes to existing laws by the PRC government may adversely affect our business. The PRC legal system is based on the Constitution of the People’s Republic of China and is made up of written laws, regulations, circulars and directives. With the PRC’s entry into the WTO, the PRC government is in the process of developing its legal system so as to encourage foreign investments and to meet the needs of investors. As the PRC economy is developing at a generally faster rate than its legal system, some degree of uncertainty exists in connection with whether and how existing laws and regulations will apply to certain events or circumstances. Some of the laws and regulations, and the interpretation, implementation and enforcement thereof, are still at the experimental stage and therefore subject to policy changes. There is no assurance that the introduction of new laws or regulations, changes to existing laws and regulations and the interpretation or application thereof or the delays in obtaining approvals from the relevant PRC authorities will not have an adverse impact on our business or prospects. 12 In particular, on August 8, 2006, the Ministry of Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, the State Administration of Taxation, the State Administration of Industry and Commerce and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange promulgated the “Rules on the Mergers and Acquisition of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors” which came into effect on September 8, 2006, or “the M&A Rules.” Foreign investors should comply with the rules when they purchase shareholding equities of a PRC domestic non-foreign-funded enterprise, or Domestic Company, or subscribe to the increased capital of a Domestic Company, and thus changing the nature of the Domestic Company into a foreign investment enterprise. The rules stipulate, inter alia, (i) th at the acquisition of a Domestic Company by an affiliated foreign enterprise established or controlled by PRC entities or individuals must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce; (ii) that the incorporation of a special purpose vehicle, which is directly or indirectly controlled by PRC entities for the purpose of an overseas listing of the equity interest of a Domestic Company, must be subject to the approval of the Ministry of Commerce; (iii) that the acquisition of a Domestic Company by a special purpose vehicle shall be subject to approval of the Ministry of Commerce and (iv) the offshore listing of a special purpose vehicle shall be subject to the prior approval from China Securities Regulatory Commission. As Hengda was incorporated as a FIE and China Ceramics does not fall within the scope of being classified as a special purpose vehicle directly or indirectly established or controlled by PRC entities or individuals, the M&A Rules do not apply to the Business Combination, and we were not required to obtain the approval from the Ministry of Commerce, the approval from the China Securities Regulatory Commission and/or any other approvals from PRC government authorities as stipulated by the M&A Rules. There is however no assurance that the PRC authorities will not issue further directives, regulations, clarifications or implementation rules, which may require us or other relevant parties to obtain further approvals with respect to the Business Combination. If new laws are promulgated or the existing laws are reinterpreted, our struct ure could be determined to be in violation of such laws and subject to sanction by applicable government authorities. Environmental, health and safety laws could impose material liabilities on us and could require us to incur material capital and operational costs. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the PRC that impose controls on our air, water and waste discharges, on our storage, handling, use, discharge and disposal of chemicals, and on exposure of our employees to hazardous substances. These laws and regulations could require us to incur costs to maintain compliance and could impose liability to remedy the effects of hazardous substance contamination. Although we do not believe that we have violated any of such laws and regulations and therefore have not incurred any significant liabilities under these laws and regulations in the past, the environmental laws and regulations are constantly evolving and becoming stricter in the PRC. The adoption of new laws or regulations or our failure to comply with these laws or regulations in the future could cause us to incur material liabilities and could require us to incur additional expenses, curtail operations and/or restrict our ability to expand. Hengdali is currently in the process of applying for a Pollutant Discharge Permit, and the environmental protection agency in Gaoan has accepted Hengdali’s application. If the Pollutant Discharge Permit is not issued and Hengdali discharges pollutants, Hengdali may be warned, ordered to stop discharging pollutants, and/or fined by the environmental protection agency. Our business will suffer if we lose our land use rights. There is no private ownership of land in China and all land ownership is held by the government of China, its agencies, and collectives. In the case of land used for business purposes, land use rights can be obtained from the government for a period up to 50 years, and are typically renewable. Land use rights can be granted upon approval by the land administrative authorities of China (State Land Administration Bureau) upon payment of the required land granting fee, the entry into a land use agreement with a competent governmental authority and certain other ministerial procedures. We have received land use certificates for certain parcels of land on which our operations reside, but we may not have followed all procedures required to obtain such certificates or paid all required fees. If the Chinese administrative authorities determine t hat we have not fully complied with all procedures and requirements needed to hold a land use certificate, we may be forced by the Chinese administrative authorities to retroactively comply with such procedures and requirements, which may be burdensome and require us to make payments, or such Chinese administrative authorities may invalidate or revoke our land use certificate entirely. If the land use right certificates needed for our operations are determined by the government of China to be invalid or if they are not renewed, we may lose production facilities or employee accommodations that would be difficult or even impossible to replace. Should we have to relocate, our workforce may be unable or unwilling to work in the new location and our business operations will be disrupted during the relocation. The relocation or loss of facilities could cause us to lose sales and/or increase our costs of production, which would negatively impact our financial results. 13 We own certain buildings collectively, which may limit our right to use, renovate or dispose of such buildings. Together with three other companies, we collectively own several buildings located at the Junbing Industrial Zone in Jinjiang City with a total construction area of 29,120.83 square meters. As a result, our right to use, renovate and dispose of such buildings may be limited. Risks to China Ceramics’ Shareholders If outstanding warrants are exercised, the underlying shares will be eligible for future resale in the public market. “Market overhang” from the warrants results in dilution and could reduce the market price of the shares. Outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 2,774,300 shares issued in connection with CHAC’s initial public offering and the private placement that took place immediately prior to the initial public offering became exercisable after our acquisition of Success Winner on November 20, 2009. If such remaining warrants, which were not tendered during our tender offer in August 2010, are exercised, a substantial number of additional shares will be eligible for resale in the public market, which may reduce the market price. There has not been an active public market for our shares so the price of our shares could be volatile and could decline at a time when you want to sell your holdings. Our shares are not actively traded and the price of our shares is volatile, and this volatility may continue. For instance, since the completion of the business combination through April 1, 2011, the closing price of our shares ranged between $9.95 and $5.05. Although our shares began trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market on November 3, 2010 under the symbol “CCCL,” and began trading on the NASDAQ Global Market on January 18, 2011, we cannot assure you that such listing will improve volume, reduce volatility and stabilize our share price. The NASDAQ Global Market may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, a national securities exchange. However, we cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the NASDAQ Global Market in the future. In order to continue listing our securities on the NASDAQ Global Market, we must maintain certain financial, distribution and share price levels. Generally, we must (i) maintain a minimum amount in shareholders’ equity (generally above $10,000,000), maintain a minimum market value of listed securities (generally above $50,000,000) or have minimum total assets and total revenue for the prior year of for two of the three preceding years (generally above $50,000,000); and (ii) a minimum number of publicly held shares (generally greater than 750,000) and a minimum number of public shareholders (generally greater than 400 shareholders). Our shares also cannot have a bid price of less than $1.00. Moreover, we must comply with certain listing standards regarding the independence of our board of directors and members of our audit committee. We currently meet these requirements, but there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to meet these requirements in the future. 14 If the NASDAQ Global Market delists our securities from trading on its exchange and we are not able to list our securities on another national securities exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: · limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; · a determination that our shares are “penny stocks,” which will require brokers trading in our shares to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our shares; · limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. There is a risk that China Ceramics could be treated as a U.S. domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes after the Redomestication and the Business Combination, which, among other things, could result in significantly greater U.S. federal income tax liability to China Ceramics. Section 7874(b) of the Code generally provides that a corporation organized outside the United States that acquires, directly or indirectly, pursuant to a plan or series of related transactions substantially all of the assets of a corporation organized in the United States will be treated as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes if shareholders of the acquired corporation, by reason of owning shares of the acquired corporation, own at least 80% (of either the voting power or the value) of the stock of the acquiring corporation after the acquisition. Under temporary regulations recently promulgated under Section 7874, a warrant holder of either the acquired corporation or the acquiring corporation generally is treated for this purpose as owning stock of the acquired corporation or the acquiring corporation, as the ca se may be, with a value equal to the excess of the value of the shares underlying the warrant over the exercise price of the warrant. If Section 7874(b) were to apply to the Redomestication, then, among other things, China Ceramics, as the surviving entity, would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on its worldwide taxable income following the Redomestication and the Business Combination as if China Ceramics were a domestic corporation. Although Section 7874(b) should not apply to treat China Ceramics as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, due to the absence of full guidance on how the rules of Section 7874(b) apply to the transactions completed pursuant to the Redomestication and Business Combination, this result is not entirely free from doubt. Securities holders are urged to consult their own tax advisors on this issue. See the discussion in the section entitled “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — Tax Treatment of China Ceramics After the Redomestication and the Business Combination.” The balance of this discussion assumes that China Ceramics will be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. 15 There is a risk that China Ceramics will be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or “PFIC,” which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of its securities. In general, China Ceramics will be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (1) at least 75% of its gross income (including the gross income of certain 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the average value of its assets (including the assets of certain 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. Passive income generally includes dividends, interest, rents, royalties, and gains from the disposition of passive assets. If China Ceramics is determined to be a PFIC for any taxable year (or portion thereof) that is included in the holding period of a U.S. Holder (as defined in the section entitled “Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—General”) of its securities, the U.S. Holder may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability upon a sale or other disposition of securities of China Ceramics or the receipt of certain excess distributions from China Ceramics and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. Based on the expected composition of the assets and income of China Ceramics and its subsidiaries during its current taxable year, China Ceramics does not anticipate that it will be treated as a PFIC for such year. China Ceramics’ actual PFIC status for its current taxable year or any subsequent taxable year, however, will not be determinable until after the end of such taxable year. Accordingly, there also can be no assurance with respect to China Ceramics’ status as a PFIC for its current taxable year or any future taxable year. U.S. Holders of securities of China Ceramics are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. See the discussion in the section entitled “Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—U.S. Holders—Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” Under the EIT Law, China Ceramics, Success Winner and/or Stand Best may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of the PRC. Such classification could result in PRC tax consequences to China Ceramics, our non-PRC resident security holders, Success Winner and/or Stand Best. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress approved and promulgated a new tax law, the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or “EIT Law,” which took effect on January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law, enterprises are classified as “resident enterprises” and non-resident enterprises. An enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define “de facto management bodies” as a managing body that in practice exercises “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise; however, it remains unclear whether the PRC tax authorities would deem our managing body as being located within China. Due to the short history of the EIT Law and lack of applicable legal precedents, the PRC tax authorities determine the PRC tax resident treatment of a foreign (non-PRC) company on a case-by-case basis. If the PRC tax authorities determine that China Ceramics, Success Winner and/or Stand Best is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of PRC tax consequences could follow. First, China Ceramics, Success Winner and/or Stand Best may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on China Ceramics’, Success Winner’s and/or Stand Best’s worldwide taxable income, as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Second, under the EIT Law and its implementing rules, dividends paid between “qualified resident enterprises” are exempt from enterprise income tax. As a result, if China Ceramics, Success Winner and Stand Best are each treated as “qualified resident enterprises,” all dividends from Hengda to China Ceramics (through Success Winn er and Stand Best) should be exempt from the PRC enterprise income tax. 16 If Stand Best were treated as a PRC “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT Law, then dividends that Stand Best receives from Hengda (assuming such dividends were considered sourced within the PRC) (i) may be subject to a 5% PRC withholding tax, provided that Stand Best owns more than 25% of the registered capital of Hengda continuously within 12 months immediately prior to obtaining such dividend from Hengda, and the Arrangement between the Mainland of China and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income, or the “PRC-Hong Kong Tax Treaty,” were otherwise applicable, or (ii) if such treaty does not apply (i.e., because the PRC tax authorities may deem Stand Best to be a conduit not entitled to treaty benefits ), may be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax. Similarly, if Success Winner were treated as a “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT Law and Stand Best were treated as a “resident enterprise” under the EIT Law, then dividends Success Winner receives from Stand Best (assuming such dividends were considered sourced within the PRC) may be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax. A similar situation may arise if China Ceramics were treated as a “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT Law, and Success Winner were treated as a “resident enterprise” under the EIT Law. Any such taxes on dividends could materially reduce the amount of dividends, if any, we could pay to our shareholders. Finally, if China Ceramics is determined to be a “resident enterprise” under the EIT Law, this could result in a situation in which a 10% PRC tax is imposed on dividends China Ceramics pays to its investors that are not tax residents of the PRC, or “non-resident investors,” and that are enterprises but not individuals, and gains derived by them from transferring China Ceramics’ securities, if such income is considered PRC-sourced income by the relevant PRC tax authorities. In such event, China Ceramics may be required to withhold a 10% PRC tax on any dividends paid to such non-resident investors. Such non-resident investors also may be responsible for paying PRC tax at a rate of 10% on any gain derived by such investors from the sale or transfer of China Ceramics’ securities in certain circumstances. C hina Ceramics would not, however, have an obligation to withhold PRC tax with respect to such gain under the PRC tax laws. Also, if China Ceramics is determined to be a “resident enterprise,” its non-resident investors who are individuals may also be subject to potential PRC individual income tax at a rate of 20% with respect to dividends received from China Ceramics and/or gains derived by them from the sale or transfer of China Ceramics’ securities. Moreover, the State Administration of Taxation, or “SAT,” released Circular Guoshuihan No. 698, or Circular 698, on December 10, 2009 that reinforces the taxation of certain equity transfers by non-resident investors through overseas holding vehicles. Circular 698 addresses indirect equity transfers as well as other issues. Circular 698 is retroactively effective from January 1, 2008. According to Circular 698, where a non-resident investor who indirectly holds an equity interest in a PRC resident enterprise through a non-PRC offshore holding company indirectly transfers an equity interest in the PRC resident enterprise by selling an equity interest in the offshore holding company, and the latter is located in a country or jurisdiction where the actual tax burden is less than 12.5% or where the offshore income of its resident s is not taxable, the non-resident investor is required to provide the PRC tax authority in charge of that PRC resident enterprise with certain relevant information within 30 days of the execution of the equity transfer agreement. The tax authorities in charge will evaluate the offshore transaction for tax purposes. In the event that the tax authorities determine that such transfer is abusing forms of business organization and a reasonable commercial purpose for the offshore holding company other than the avoidance of PRC income tax liability is lacking, the PRC tax authorities will have the power to re-assess the nature of the equity transfer under the doctrine of substance over form. A reasonable commercial purpose may be established when the overall international (including U.S.) offshore structure is set up to comply with the requirements of supervising authorities of international (including U.S.) capital markets. If the SAT’s challenge of a transfer is successful, it may deny the existence of the offshore holding company that is used for tax planning purposes and subject the non-resident investor to PRC tax on the capital gain from such transfer. Since Circular 698 has a short history, there is uncertainty as to its application. We (or a non-resident investor) may become at risk of being taxed under Circular 698 and may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 or to establish that we(or such non-resident investor) should not be taxed under Circular 698, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations (or such non-resident investor’s investment in us). 17 If any PRC tax applies to a non-resident investor, the non-resident investor may be entitled to a reduced rate of PRC tax under an applicable income tax treaty and/or a deduction for such PRC tax against such investor’s domestic taxable income or a foreign tax credit in respect of such PRC tax against such investor’s domestic income tax liability (subject to applicable conditions and limitations). Investors should consult with their own tax advisors regarding the applicability of any such taxes, the effects of any applicable income tax treaties, and any available deductions or foreign tax credits. For a further discussion of these issues, see the section herein captioned “Taxation — PRC Taxation.” Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. The value of our shares will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and the Renminbi and between those currencies and other currencies in which our revenue may be denominated. Because all of our earnings and cash assets are denominated in Renminbi and our proceeds from this offering will be denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Renminbi will affect the relative purchasing power of these proceeds, as well as our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business, financial condition or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue after this offering that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from, and the va lue of, any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Since July 2005, the Renminbi has not been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future the Chinese authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the Renminbi exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by Chinese exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currencies. As the rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law differ from those under U.S. law, you may have fewer protections as a shareholder. Our corporate affairs will be governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the British Virgin Islands Business Companies Act, 2004 (as amended), or the BVI Act, and the common law of the British Virgin Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under British Virgin Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the British Virgin Islands and by the BVI Act. The common law of the British Virgin Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the British Virgin Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the British Virgin Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the British Virgin Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states (such as Delaware) have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. 18 As a result of all of the above, holders of our shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. company. For a discussion of significant differences between the provisions of the BVI Act and the laws applicable to companies incorporated in the United States and their shareholders. British Virgin Islands companies may not be able to initiate shareholder derivative actions, thereby depriving shareholders of the ability to protect their interests. British Virgin Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. The circumstances in which any such action may be brought, and the procedures and defenses that may be available in respect to any such action, may result in the rights of shareholders of a British Virgin Islands company being more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the United States. Accordingly, shareholders may have fewer alternatives available to them if they believe that corporate wrongdoing has occurred. The British Virgin Islands courts are also unlikely to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts in the United States based on certain liability provisions of U.S. securities law; and to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Britis h Virgin Islands, based on certain liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the British Virgin Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the British Virgin Islands will generally recognize and enforce the non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. This means that even if shareholders were to sue us successfully, they may not be able to recover anything to make up for the losses suffered. The laws of the British Virgin Islands provide little protection for minority shareholders, so minority shareholders will have little or no recourse if the shareholders are dissatisfied with the conduct of our affairs. Under the laws of the British Virgin Islands, there is little statutory law for the protection of minority shareholders other than the provisions of the BVI Act dealing with shareholder remedies. The principal protection under statutory law is that shareholders may bring an action to enforce the constituent documents of the corporation, the company’s memorandum and articles of association. Shareholders are entitled to have the affairs of the company conducted in accordance with the BVI Act and the memorandum and articles of association of the company. There are common law rights for the protection of shareholders that may be invoked, largely dependent on English common law, since the common law of the British Virgin Islands for business companies is limited. Under the general rule pursuant to English common law known as the rule in Foss v. Harbottle, a court will generally refuse to interfere with the management of a company at the insistence of a minority of its shareholders who express dissatisfaction with the conduct of the company’s affairs by the majority or the board of directors. However, every shareholder is entitled to have the affairs of the company conducted properly according to law and the constituent documents of the corporation. As such, if those who control the company have persistently disregarded the requirements of company law or the provisions of the company& #8217;s memorandum and articles of association, then the courts will grant relief. Generally, the areas in which the courts will intervene are the following: (1) an act complained of which is outside the scope of the authorized business or is illegal or not capable of ratification by the majority; (2) acts that constitute fraud on the minority where the wrongdoers control the company; (3) acts that infringe on the personal rights of the shareholders, such as the right to vote; and (4) where the company has not complied with provisions requiring approval of a special or extraordinary majority of shareholders, which are more limited than the rights afforded minority shareholders under the laws of many states in the United States. 19 The market price for our shares and warrants may be volatile. The market price for our shares and warrants is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and changes or revisions of our expected results; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of companies specializing in the ceramics business in China; · announcements by us and our affiliates or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · addition or departure of our senior management and key personnel; and · fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and the U.S. dollar. Volatility in the price of our shares and warrants may result in shareholder litigation that could in turn result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. The financial markets in the United States and other countries have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and market prices have been and continue to be extremely volatile. Volatility in the price of our shares may be caused by factors outside of our control and may be unrelated or disproportionate to our results of operations. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, shareholders have frequently instituted securities class action litigation against that company. Litigation of this kind could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Because we do not intend to pay dividends on our shares, shareholders will benefit from an investment in our shares only if those shares appreciate in value. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, for use in the operations and expansion of our business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to the declaration and payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on factors our board of directors deems relevant, including among others, our results of operations, financial condition and cash requirements, business prospects, and the terms of our credit facilities, if any, and any other financing arrangements. Accordingly, realization of a gain on shareholders’ investments will depend on the appreciation of the price of our shares, and there is no guarantee that our shares will appreciate in value. 20 We may not be able to pay any dividends on our shares. Under British Virgin Islands law, we may only pay dividends to our shareholders if the value of our assets exceeds our liabilities and we are able to pay our debts as they become due. We cannot give any assurance that we will declare dividends of any amounts, at any rate or at all in the future. Future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors, and will depend upon our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, payment to us of cash dividends by our subsidiaries, capital needs, future prospects and other factors that our directors may deem appropriate. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional shares or equity or debt securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain one or more additional credit facilities. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. It is uncertain whether financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 