ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products, reduce access to credit and cause our customers and others with whom we do business to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. During 2008 and 2009, worldwide economic conditions deteriorated in many countries and regions, including the United States. Despite some positive trends during the second half of 2009 and throughout 2010, business conditions may remain difficult for the foreseeable future. Consumer spending is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, health care costs, currency exchange rates, taxation, gasoline prices, real estate values, foreclosure rates, unemployment trends, economic consequences of military action or terrorist activities and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Many of these factors are outside of our control and may have a negative impact on our sales and margins. Our customers’ purchases, including our products, could decline during periods when disposable income is lower, when prices increase in response to rising costs or in periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. If we encounter increases in our product costs, these may not be offset by comparable rises in the income of consumers of our products. These consumers may choose to purchase fewer of our products or purchase lower-priced products of our competitors in response to higher prices for our products or may choose not to purchase our products at prices that reflect our price increases that become effective from time to time. If any of these events occur, or if unfavorable economic conditions further challenge the consumer environment, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, product suppliers, insurers, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions that are counterparties to our credit facilities and derivatives transactions. Our customers may experience diminished liquidity that could result in an increase in our credit risk, or our customers may encounter an inability to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. If third parties on which we rely for goods or services are unable to overcome difficulties resulting from the deterioration in worldwide economic conditions and provide us with the materials and services we need, or if counterparties to our credit facilities or derivatives transactions do not perform their obligations, our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity could be adversely affected. For example, over the last few years, we experienced some disruption in product sourcing as a result of certain unforeseen factory closures. While the financial consequences to the Company of these closures were not material, the impact of many closures of major facilities may have an adverse effect on product sourcing. We attempt to mitigate this risk in a variety of ways, including diversification among factories, but such risk to our business and results of operations cannot be completely eliminated. We face risks relating to competition. Competition is intense in the footwear industry. Certain of our competitors are larger and have greater financial, marketing and technological resources than we do. In addition, there are low barriers of entry into this industry and new companies may enter the markets in which we compete, further increasing competition in the industry. Our success depends upon our ability to remain competitive in the areas of style, price, quality, location and service, among others, and in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing merchandise and fashion trends and consumer preferences and demands in a timely manner. The industry has also been impacted by retailers aggressively competing on the basis of price. Accordingly, there has been competitive pressure on us to keep our selling prices low. Additionally, retailers are increasingly relying on private label brands, which compete with our products directly. Further, these retailers, in some cases, are deciding to source more of their products directly from manufacturers overseas, reducing their reliance on wholesalers. If we are unable to respond effectively to these competitive pressures, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We face risks related to the maintenance of proper inventory levels. We place orders with manufacturers for some of our products prior to the time we receive all of our customers’ orders. We do this to minimize purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders and the risk of non-delivery. We also maintain an inventory of certain products that we anticipate will be in greater demand. We may fail to gauge the fashion tastes of consumers or differentiate our retail and wholesale offerings. Also, current economic conditions make it increasingly difficult for us and our customers to accurately forecast product demand trends, and we may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair the brand image and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply the quality products that we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships, negatively impact our sales results and diminish brand awareness. 14 BROWN SHOE COMPANY, INC. 2010 FORM 10-K We face risks relating to changes in consumer preferences. The footwear industry is subject to rapidly changing consumer demands and fashion trends. Accordingly, our success in both our wholesale and retail operations depends in large part on our ability to anticipate, understand and react to changing consumer demands. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. The success of our products, merchandising strategies and marketing strategies and programs will also depend on a favorable reception by our customers. Furthermore, consumer preferences and purchasing patterns may be influenced by consumers’ disposable income, which could impact the success of our operations. We rely on foreign sources of production. General We rely almost entirely on foreign sourcing for our footwear products. We source footwear products from independent third-party manufacturing facilities located in China and, to a much lesser extent, Brazil and other countries. At times, we are a major customer of these third-party manufacturing facilities. However, there is substantial competition in the footwear industry for quality footwear manufacturers. Accordingly, our future results will partly depend on maintaining close working relationships with our principal manufacturers. As is common in the industry, we do not have any long-term contracts with our independent third-party foreign manufacturers. We cannot ensure that we will not experience difficulties with such manufacturers, including reduction in the availability of production capacity, failure to meet production deadlines, increases in manufacturing costs or failure to meet our quality standards. Foreign manufacturing is subject to a number of risks, including work stoppages, political instability, expropriation, nationalization, foreign currency fluctuations, changing economic conditions, the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers and changes in governmental policies or climate change legislation. These risks, as well as other factors outside of our control, such as manufacturing or shipping delays or quality problems, could disrupt the manufacturing process and timeliness of merchandise deliveries and result in lost sales, order cancellations or excessive markdowns, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We require our third-party foreign manufacturers to meet our standards and footwear-industry standards for working conditions and other matters, including compliance with applicable labor, environmental and other laws, before we place orders with them to manufacture products for us. A failure by any of our third-party manufacturers to adhere to these standards or laws could cause us to incur additional costs for our products and could cause negative publicity and harm our business and reputation. We also require our third-party foreign manufacturers to meet our and industry standards for product safety, including compliance with applicable laws and standards with respect to lead content in paint and other safety issues. A failure by any of our third-party manufacturers to adhere to product safety standards could lead to a product recall, which could result in critical media coverage and harm our business and reputation and could cause us to incur additional costs. We cannot predict whether additional United States or foreign customs quotas, duties, taxes or other changes or restrictions will be imposed upon the importation of foreign produced products in the future or what effect such actions could have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, our products depend on the availability of leather and other raw materials. Any significant shortage of quantities or increases in the cost of leather or other materials or resources used to produce our products could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. China We rely heavily on manufacturing facilities located in China. Historically, the trade relationship between the United States and China has not had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There have been, however, and may in the future be, threats to the trade relationships between the United States and China. There can be no assurance that the trade relationship between the United States and China will not worsen, and if it does worsen, that our financial condition or results of operations will not be materially adversely affected thereby. 15 BROWN SHOE COMPANY, INC. 2010 FORM 10-K We cannot predict the effect that changes in the economic and political conditions in the United States and China could have on the economics of doing business with Chinese manufacturers. Examples include, but are not limited to, the following: · manufacturing capacity in China may shift from footwear to other industries with manufacturing margins that are perceived to be higher; · growth in domestic footwear consumption in China could lead to a significant decrease in factory space available for the manufacture of footwear to be exported; and · currently, many footwear manufacturers in China are facing labor shortages as migrant workers seek better wages and working conditions in other industries and vocations. Any of the conditions described above, including the continuation of certain trends identified, could adversely affect our current manufacturers’ operations and the ability to source footwear from these manufacturers, and we may experience difficulties or delays in sourcing our footwear as well as higher footwear costs. Although we believe we could find alternative manufacturing sources for those products we currently source from China through independent third-party manufacturing facilities in other countries, the loss of a substantial portion of our Chinese manufacturing capacity would have a material adverse effect on the Company. For example, alternative manufacturers may have higher prices, less favorable payment terms, less manufacturing capacity, lower quality standards or increased lead times for delivery. If we are unable to provide products consistent with our standards or the manufacture of our footwear is delayed or becomes more expensive, this could result in our customers canceling orders, refusing to accept deliveries or demanding reductions in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, the occurrence of a natural disaster, such as an earthquake or hurricane, the outbreak of a pandemic disease in China or any other disaster, such as that caused by a nuclear meltdown in which radioactive material is released into the environment, would severely interfere with the manufacture of our products and have a material adverse effect on the Company. Currency Although we purchase most products from foreign manufacturers in United States dollars and otherwise engage in foreign currency hedging transactions, we cannot ensure that we will not experience cost variations with respect to exchange rate changes. For example, although we purchase footwear made in China using United States dollars, recently Chinese manufacturers have been increasing their United States dollar prices to compensate for the appreciation of the Chinese currency against the United States dollar. We face risks relating to operating newly acquired manufacturing facilities in China. Our acquisition of ASG on February 17, 2011, included manufacturing facilities in China that are now owned and operated by Brown Shoe. Although these facilities account for only a portion of total production of performance athletic footwear and outdoor brands acquired from ASG, these manufacturing operations are subject to a number of potential risks. Such risks include, among others: · inflation or changes in political and economic conditions; · unstable regulatory environments; · changes in import and export duties; · domestic and foreign customs and tariffs; · potentially adverse tax consequences; · trade restrictions; · restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of China; · labor unrest and/or shortages; and · logistical and communications challenges. These risks may have an adverse effect on our Chinese manufacturing operations and on our overall business and results of operations. We lease the land where our Chinese manufacturing facilities are located from the Chinese government through land use rights agreements. Although we believe our relationship with the Chinese government is good, if the Chinese government decided to terminate our land use rights agreements, our assets could become impaired, and our ability to meet our customers’ orders could be impacted. This could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 16 BROWN SHOE COMPANY, INC. 2010 FORM 10-K We face risks relating to customer concentration in our wholesale business. Our wholesale customers include national chains, mass merchandisers, department stores, independent retailers, catalogs and online retailers. Several of our customers operate multiple department store divisions. Furthermore, we often sell multiple types of licensed, branded and private-label footwear to these same national chains, mass merchandisers, department stores, independent retailers, catalogs and online retailers. While we believe purchasing decisions in many cases are made independently by the buyers and merchandisers of each of the customers, a decision by a significant customer, including any multiple national chain operators, mass merchandiser, department store, independent retailer, catalog and/or online retailer or any other significant customer, to decrease the amount of footwear products purchased from us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The retail industry has experienced increased consolidation. As this trend continues, our wholesale customers will likely seek more favorable terms for their purchases of our products, which could limit our ability to raise prices or achieve our profit goals. In turn, we may not be able to recoup raw material or other cost increases. Sales on terms less favorable to us than our current terms will have an adverse effect on our profitability. Consolidation could lead to a decrease in the number of stores that carry our products and could expose us to greater concentration of accounts receivable risk. In addition, retailers are deciding to source more of their products directly from manufacturers overseas and reducing their reliance on wholesalers. If retailers continue to increase their direct sourcing of footwear from overseas, this could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are dependent on our information technology systems. Our computer network and systems are essential to all aspects of our operations. If there were to be a major disruption of our information technology operations, we believe that we would be able to recover necessary information, but we do not have complete assurance that we would be able to do so. Further, we do not have complete assurance that we would be able to repair our systems to allow us to continue operations without significant business interruption. If a disruption is of a nature that delays or prohibits implementation of recovery arrangements, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. To support our business strategy while streamlining and transforming day-to-day operations for our integrated business model, we converted certain of our existing internally developed and certain other third-party applications to an integrated enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) information technology system provided by third-party vendors. While we believe the implementation of these systems provides significant opportunity for us, such a major undertaking carries various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. These include: (i) changes in the anticipated benefits of strategic business transformation; (ii) our ability to utilize our new information technology system and perform our business processes as designed to successfully execute our strategies; and (iii) the additional risk of future unforeseen issues, interruptions and costs. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we went live on the wholesale portion of our new ERP system, and experienced some delays in the financial statement closing process and timely access to key information used to monitor our business. While we are addressing these issues, the timeline for stabilization of the issues experienced and optimization of benefits expected from the implementation of the ERP system are not now determinable. We may fail to protect the integrity and security of customer and associate information. We routinely possess sensitive customer and associate information and, while we have taken reasonable and appropriate steps to protect that information, if our security procedures and controls were compromised, it could harm our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition and may increase the costs we incur to protect against such information security breaches, such as increased investment in technology, the costs of compliance with consumer protection laws and costs resulting from consumer fraud. We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively and may be unable to retain senior management and recruit and retain other key associates. Our success depends on the ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified management, administrative, product development and sales personnel to support existing operations and future growth. Competition for qualified personnel in the footwear industry is intense, and we compete for these individuals with other companies that in many cases have substantial financial and other resources. The loss of the services of any members of senior management, the inability to attract and retain other qualified personnel, or the inability to effectively transition senior management positions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may also be unable to retain key management personnel in businesses that we acquire. 17 BROWN SHOE COMPANY, INC. 2010 FORM 10-K We face risks relating to our licensed and owned intellectual property. Licenses The success of our Wholesale Operations segment to date has been due, in part, to our ability to attract and retain licensors that have strong, well-recognized brands and trademarks. Our license agreements are generally for an initial term of two to four years, subject to renewal, but even where we have longer-term licenses or have an option to renew a license, such agreements are dependent upon our achieving certain results in marketing the licensed products. While we believe we will generally be able to decide whether to renew our existing licenses and obtain new licenses in the future, there can be no assurance we will be able to renew our current licenses or obtain new licenses. In addition, certain of our license agreements are not exclusive, and new or existing competitors may obtain similar licenses. Many of our license agreements require minimum royalty payments. Our ability to generate sufficient sales and profitability to cover these minimum royalty requirements is not guaranteed, and if sales of such products are not sufficient to generate these minimum payments, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Trademarks We believe that our trademarks and trade names are important to our business and are generally sufficient to permit us to carry on our business as presently conducted and planned. We cannot, however, know whether we will be able to secure protection for our intellectual property in the future or if that protection will be adequate for future operations. Furthermore, we face the risk of ineffective protection of intellectual property rights in jurisdictions where we source and distribute our products. We also cannot be certain that our activities do not infringe on the proprietary rights of others. If we are compelled to prosecute infringing parties, defend our intellectual property or defend ourselves from intellectual property claims made by others, we may face significant expenses and liability. We are dependent on leased locations. Our Famous Footwear and Specialty Retail segments operate footwear stores. We lease all of these stores. Accordingly, the success of our operations, in part, is dependent on our ability to secure affordable, long-term leases in desirable locations and to secure renewals of such leases. Although we believe that most of our current leases can be renewed on acceptable terms, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully negotiate lease renewals on existing stores or to obtain acceptable terms for new stores in desirable locations, and the failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our ability to grow our business and our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on distribution centers. We currently use six distribution centers, which serve as the source of replenishment of inventory for our footwear stores operated by our Famous Footwear and Specialty Retail segments and serve our Wholesale Operations segment. If complications arise with certain of our operating distribution centers or these distribution centers are severely damaged or destroyed, our other distribution centers may not be able to support the resulting additional distribution demands and we may be unable to locate alternative persons or entities capable of doing so. This may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory on a timely basis, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are dependent on major branded suppliers. Our Famous Footwear retail chain purchases a substantial portion of its footwear products from major branded suppliers. While we believe our relationships with our current suppliers are good, the loss of any of our major suppliers or product developed exclusively for Famous Footwear could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As is common in the industry, we do not have any long-term contracts with our suppliers. In addition, the success of our financial performance is dependent on the ability of Famous Footwear to obtain products from its suppliers on a timely basis and on acceptable terms. We face risks that our quarterly sales and earnings may fluctuate, which may result in volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly sales and earnings can vary due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales and earnings. In our wholesale business, sales of footwear are dependent on orders from our major customers, and they may change delivery schedules, change the mix of products they order or cancel orders without penalty. In addition, our wholesale customers set the delivery schedule for shipments of our products, which could cause shifts of sales between quarters. Our Famous Footwear retail business is seasonally weighted to the back-to-school season, which falls into our fiscal third quarter. In addition, our annualized tax rate is based on projections of our domestic and international operating results for the year, which we review and revise as necessary each quarter. As a result of these specific and other general factors, our operating results will vary from quarter to quarter, and the results for any particular quarter may not be indicative of results for the full year. Any shortfall in sales or earnings from the levels expected by investors or securities analysts could cause a decrease in the trading price of our stock. 18 BROWN SHOE COMPANY, INC. 2010 FORM 10-K We could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, policies and treaties. Our financial results are significantly impacted by our effective tax rates, for both domestic and international operations; therefore, changes in domestic and/or international tax laws, interpretations, policies and treaties may result in increased volatility of our financial results. The passage of any currently existing or future legislation, as a result of changes in domestic or international tax laws, that defers or eliminates certain tax deductions that are currently available to the Company would result in the Company paying higher income taxes and, depending on the specifics of the changes, could materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may face transitional challenges with acquisitions and/or joint ventures. Periodically, we pursue acquisitions of other companies or businesses and/or joint ventures. Although we review the records of acquisition candidates, such an in-depth review of the records may not reveal existing or potential problems. As a result, we may not become familiar enough with the business to fully assess its strengths and weaknesses, and accordingly, we may assume adverse operating conditions and/or unanticipated liabilities, and the business may not perform as well as expected. We face the risk that the returns on acquisitions and/or joint ventures will not support the expenditures or indebtedness incurred to acquire or launch such businesses. We also face the risk that we will not be able to integrate acquisitions and/or joint ventures into our existing operations effectively without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems. Integration may be hindered by, among other things, differing procedures, including internal controls, business practices and technology systems. We may need to allocate more management resources to integration than we planned, which may adversely affect our ability to pursue other profitable activities. With our recent acquisition of ASG, we have expanded our presence in the highly competitive performance footwear market. Our acquisition of ASG added performance athletic and outdoor footwear brands to our existing wholesale portfolio of brands, strengthening our position in the performance footwear market. The performance footwear market is highly competitive in the United States and worldwide, and market participants face many challenges. Consumer perceptions of our newly acquired performance footwear brands, competitive product offerings and technologies, rapid changes in footwear technology and consumer preferences, any negative professional and expert opinions on the unique technologies and designs of the newly acquired performance footwear brands and performance claims that may arise and any negative publicity and media attention associated with this product category that may arise may constitute significant risk factors in our operations and may negatively impact our business. We could be adversely affected by the failure of financial institutions to fulfill their commitments under our Credit Agreement. Our Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”), which matures on January 7, 2016, is provided by a syndicate of financial institutions, with each institution agreeing severally (and not jointly) to make revolving credit loans to us in an aggregate amount of up to $530.0 million in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement. In addition, the Credit Agreement provides for up to an additional $150.0 million of optional availability pursuant to a provision commonly referred to as an “accordion feature”. If one or more of the financial institutions participating in the senior secured revolving credit facility were to default on its obligation to fund its commitment, the portion of the facility provided by such defaulting financial institution would not be available to us. We may be unable to maintain our credit rating, thus negatively affecting our ability to access capital and increasing our interest expense. The credit ratings agencies periodically review our capital structure and the quality and stability of our earnings. Any negative ratings actions could constrain the capital available to our company or our industry and could limit our access to long-term funding or cause such access to be available at a higher borrowing cost for our operations. We are dependent upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. If our ability to access capital becomes constrained, our interest costs will likely increase, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to periodic litigation and other regulatory proceedings. We are a defendant from time to time in lawsuits and regulatory actions (including environmental matters) relating to our business and to our past operations. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings are expensive and will require that we devote substantial resources and executive time to defend the Company. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings, for further discussion of pending matters. 19 BROWN SHOE COMPANY, INC. 2010 FORM 10-K We are subject to rising insurance costs. We self-insure a significant portion of our expected losses under our workers’ compensation, employment practices, health, disability, cyber risk, general liability, automobile and property programs, among others. The liabilities associated with the risks that are retained by us are estimated by considering our historical claims experience and data from actuarial sources. The estimated accruals for these liabilities could be affected if claims differ from the assumptions used and historical trends. Unanticipated changes in the estimates underlying our reserves for these losses, such as claims experience, inflation and regulatory changes, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to legislative or regulatory initiatives related to global warming/climate change concerns, which could negatively affect our business. There has been an increasing focus and continuous debate on global climate change, including increased attention from regulatory agencies and legislative bodies globally. This increased focus may lead to new initiatives directed at regulating an unspecified array of environmental matters. Legislative, regulatory or other efforts globally to combat climate change could have negative implications, including, but not limited to, future tax increases, increased costs of transportation and utilities and other cost increases imposed on foreign sources of production, all of which could decrease our operating profits. We are unable to predict the potential effects that any such future environmental initiatives may have on our business. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 