RISK FACTORS Certain statements in this Form 10-K, as well as other statements made by us from time to time, contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially. The considerations listed below represent certain important factors we believe could cause such results to differ. These considerations are not intended to represent a complete list of the general or specific risks that may affect the Company. It should be recognized that other risks (including those described in Item 7 — “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”) may be significant, presently or in the future, and the risks set forth below may affect us to a greater extent than indicated. We disclaim any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements. Competition and Changes in Consumer Preferences Competition is intense in the footwear industry. Certain of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater resources than we do. Our success depends upon our ability to remain competitive in the areas of style, price and quality, among others, and in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing merchandise and fashion trends and consumer preferences and demands in a timely manner. If we fail to gauge the fashion tastes of consumers, differentiate and effectively market our products or build inventory for products that are not accepted by consumers, this could adversely affect our sales or profit margins. If that occurs, we may have substantial unsold inventory that we may have to mark down in order to sell, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Competition in the retail footwear industry has been impacted by retailers aggressively competing on the basis of price. Accordingly, there has been competitive pressure on us to keep our selling prices low. If we are unable to respond effectively to these competitive pressures, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Furthermore, consumer preferences and purchasing patterns may be influenced by consumers’ disposable income. Consequently, the success of our operations may depend to a significant extent upon a number of factors affecting disposable income, including general economic conditions and factors such as employment, business conditions, consumer confidence, interest rates and taxation. 9 BROWN SHOE COMPANY, INC. 2004 FORM 10-K Reliance on Foreign Sources of Production General We rely entirely on broad-based foreign sourcing for our footwear products. We source footwear products from independent third-party manufacturing facilities located in China and Brazil and, to a lesser extent, from Italy, Vietnam and other countries. Typically, we are a major customer of these third-party manufacturing facilities. However, there is substantial competition in the footwear industry for quality footwear manufacturers. We believe our relationships with such third-party manufacturing facilities provide us with a competitive advantage; thus, our future results will partly depend on maintaining our close working relationships with our principal manufacturers. As is common in the industry, we do not have any long-term contracts with our independent third-party foreign manufacturers. We cannot ensure that we will not experience difficulties with such manufacturers, including reduction in the availability of production capacity, failure to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. Foreign manufacturing is subject to a number of risks, including work stoppages, transportation delays and interruptions, political instability, expropriation, nationalization, foreign currency fluctuations, changing economic conditions, the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers and changes in governmental policies. We cannot predict whether additional United States or foreign customs quotas, duties, taxes or other changes or restrictions will be imposed upon the importation of non-domestically produced products in the future or what effect such actions could have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, our products depend on the availability of leather. Any significant shortage of quantities or increases in the cost of leather or other resources used to produce our products could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. China We rely heavily on manufacturing facilities located in China. Historically, the trade relationship between the United States and China has not had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There have been, however, and may in the future be, threats to the trade relationships between the United States and China, including threats by the United States to limit trade relations with China. There can be no assurance the trade relationship between the United States and China will not worsen, and if it does worsen, there can be no assurance our business, financial condition or results of operations will not be materially adversely affected thereby. Further, we cannot predict the effect that changes in the economic and political conditions in China could have on the economics of doing business with Chinese manufacturers. For example, manufacturing capacity in China may shift from footwear to other industries with manufacturing margins that are perceived to be higher. Although we believe we could find alternative manufacturing sources for those products we currently source from China through our existing relationships with independent third-party manufacturing facilities in other countries, the loss of a substantial portion of our Chinese manufacturing capacity would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Currency Although we purchase products from certain foreign manufacturers in United States dollars and otherwise engage in foreign currency hedging transactions, we cannot ensure that we will not experience cost variations with respect to exchange rate changes. The Chinese Yuan is currently pegged to the U.S. dollar. If the Chinese government decides to revalue the Yuan or allows it to float against the U.S. dollar, such an action could adversely impact our business and financial results. Customer Concentration Our wholesale customers include department stores, national chains and mass merchandisers. Several of our customers operate multiple department store divisions. Further, we often sell multiple brands and licensed and private-label footwear to these same department stores, national chains and mass merchandisers. While we believe purchasing decisions in many cases are made independently by the buyers and merchandisers of each of the customers, a decision by our customers that operate multiple department stores, national chains and/or mass merchandisers or any other significant customer to decrease the amount of footwear products purchased from us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 10 BROWN SHOE COMPANY, INC. 2004 FORM 10-K The retail industry has recently experienced consolidation. If this trend continues, our customers will likely seek more favorable terms, including pricing, for their purchases of our products, which could limit our ability to raise prices, in turn limiting our ability to recoup raw material or other cost increases. Sales on terms less favorable to us than our current terms will have an adverse effect on our profitability. In addition, consolidation could lead to a decrease in the number of stores that carry our products. Consolidation could also lead to larger retailers deciding to source their products directly from manufacturers overseas and ceasing to rely on wholesalers. If such retailers are successful in meeting their footwear needs directly through sourcing from overseas, this would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Intellectual Property Risks Licenses The success of our Wholesale Operations division has to date been due, in part, to our ability to attract and retain licensors which have strong, well-recognized brands and trademarks. Our license agreements are generally for an initial term of two to three years, subject to renewal, but even where we have longer-term licenses or have an option to renew a license, such agreements are dependent upon our achieving certain results in marketing the licensed products. While we believe we will generally be able to renew our existing licenses and obtain new licenses in the future, there can be no assurance we will be able to renew our current licenses or obtain new licenses to replace lost licenses. In addition, certain of our license agreements are not exclusive, and new or existing competitors may obtain similar licenses. Trademarks We believe that our trademarks and trade names are important to our business and are generally sufficient to permit us to carry on our business as presently conducted and planned. We cannot, however, know whether we will be able to secure protection for our intellectual property in the future or if that protection will be adequate for future operations. Further, we face the risk of ineffective protection of intellectual property rights in jurisdictions where we source and distribute our products. We also cannot be certain that our activities do not infringe on the proprietary rights of others. If we are compelled to prosecute infringing parties, defend our intellectual property or defend ourselves from intellectual property claims made by others, we may face significant expenses and liability. Dependence on Leased Locations Our Famous Footwear and Specialty Retail divisions operate chains of footwear stores. We lease all of these stores. Accordingly, the success of our operations, in part, is dependent on our ability to secure affordable, long-term leases in desirable locations and to secure renewals of such leases. Although we believe that our current leases can be renewed on acceptable terms, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully negotiate lease renewals on existing stores or to obtain similar terms for new stores in desirable locations, and the failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Dependence on Major Branded Suppliers Our Famous Footwear retail chain purchases a substantial portion of our footwear products from major branded suppliers. While we believe our relationships with our current suppliers are good, the loss of any of our major suppliers or product developed exclusively for Famous Footwear could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As is common in the industry, we do not have any long-term contracts with our suppliers. In addition, the success of our financial performance is dependent on the ability of Famous Footwear to obtain products from its suppliers on a timely basis and on acceptable terms. Litigation and Other Regulatory Proceedings We are a defendant from time to time in lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings are expensive and will require that we devote substantial resources and executive time to defend the Company. 11 BROWN SHOE COMPANY, INC. 2004 FORM 10-K AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Internet address is www.brownshoe.com. Our Internet address is included in this annual report on Form 10-K as an inactive textual reference only. The information contained on our Web site is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this report. We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We make available free of charge our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished, as required by Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, through our Internet Web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with or furnish it to the SEC. You may access these SEC filings via the hyperlink to a third-party SEC filings Web site that we provide on our Web site. 