D. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry If we are unable to successfully develop and source new online games, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop and source new online games that appeal to game players. We develop and source new online games through our multi-channel strategy, including in-house development, licensing, investments and acquisitions, co-development and co-operation. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in executing such strategy. If we fail to do so, our business, financial condition, results of operations and business prospects would be materially and adversely affected. The following summarizes risks relating to our multi-channel strategy. • In-house development of new online games and introduction of expansion packs for our existing online games We must continue to successfully develop new online games in-house to expand our game portfolio and introduce updates and expansion packs, which are more substantial enhancements than updates, for our existing games to extend the commercial lifespan of our existing games. Our ability to develop successful new online games in-house will largely depend on our ability to (i) anticipate and effectively respond to changing game player interests and preferences and technological advances in a timely manner, (ii) attract, retain and motivate talented online game development personnel and (iii) execute effectively our online game development plans. In-house development requires a substantial initial investment prior to the launch of a game, as well as a significant commitment of future resources to produce updates and expansion packs. Our ability to introduce successful updates and expansion packs for our existing online games will also depend on our ability to collect and analyze user behavior data and feedback from the player community in a timely manner and to effectively incorporate features into our updates and expansion packs to improve the variety and attractiveness of our virtual items. We cannot assure you that we will be able to collect and analyze game player behavior data on a timely basis or that such data will accurately reflect game player behavior. • Maintaining good relationships with our licensors, extending licenses for our existing licensed online games and licensing new online games We license many of our online games, including some of our most popular games, from third parties. In 2008 and 2009, we derived approximately 65.7% and 69.1% of our net revenues, respectively, from online games that were licensed from third parties. We must maintain good relations with our licensors to ensure the continued smooth operation of our licensed games. Additionally, we depend upon our licensors to provide technical support necessary for the operation of the licensed games, as well as updates and expansion packs that help to sustain interest in a game. Moreover, certain marketing activities often require the consent of our licensors. Finally, our licenses may be terminated upon the occurrence of certain events, such as a material breach by us. Only some of our license agreements allow us to automatically extend the term of the license without renegotiating with the licensors. We may want to extend a license upon its expiration but may not be able to do so on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our licensors may also demand new royalty terms that are unacceptable to us. Our ability to continue to license our online games and to maintain good relationship with our licensors also affect our ability to license new games developed by the same licensors. • Investments in and acquisitions of other businesses that we believe may benefit our business We intend to continue to invest in or acquire other businesses that complement our business or games that we believe may benefit us in terms of game player base or game portfolio. For example, in 2010, we acquired Goldcool Holdings Limited, or Goldcool, which is a Shanghai-based online game developer and operator, and Mochi Media, Inc., or Mochi Media, which operates a leading platform for distributing and monetizing browser-based games worldwide. However, our ability to grow through investments and acquisitions will depend on the availability of suitable candidates at an acceptable cost and our ability to consummate such transactions on commercially reasonable terms, as well as our ability to obtain any required governmental approvals. The identification and completion of these transactions may also require us to expend significant management and other resources. Moreover, the benefits of an investment or acquisition may take considerable time to materialize, and we cannot assure you that any particular transaction will achieve the intended benefits. Future acquisitions could also expose us to potential risks, including those associated with the integration of new operations, technologies and personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of the acquisitions and potential loss of, or harm to, our relationships with employees, customers, licensors and other suppliers as a result of integration of new businesses. • Sourcing of new online games through co-development and co-operation We co-develop online games with international game developers. We also co-operate certain games in China under nonexclusive licenses granted by third-party Chinese developers who also operate those same games on their own platform. We must maintain good relations with our co-developers and co-operators to ensure the continued smooth development or operation of our co-developed and co-operated games. We may incur significant cost overrun in game product development in our co-development arrangements. In addition, our newly co-developed games may not be well received by our game players. Our ability to co-develop and co-operate successful online games also depends on the availability of co-development and co-operation partner candidates. 7 Table of Contents We depend substantially on two massively multi-player online role-playing games, or MMORPGs, which accounted for approximately 75.9% and 78.2% of our net revenues in 2008 and 2009, respectively, and have finite commercial lifespans. Two of our MMORPGs, namely Mir II and Woool, including their sequels, contributed approximately 55.3% and 20.6% of our net revenues, respectively, in 2008 and 56.4% and 21.8% of our net revenues, respectively, in 2009. We expect to continue to derive a substantial majority of our net revenues from Mir II and Woool in the near term. Thus, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected by any factor that contributes to a decline in revenues from Mir II or Woool, including: • any reduction in purchases of virtual items by Mir II or Woool players; • a decrease in the popularity of either game in China due to increased competition or other factors; • failure to improve, update or enhance Mir II or Woool in a timely manner; or • any lasting or prolonged server interruption due to network failures or other factors or any other adverse developments specific to Mir II or Woool. For example, we introduced an expansion pack in Mir II which was not well received by the game’s users and led to some of the game’s users reducing the amount of virtual items they purchase in the game. Primarily as a result of the introduction of that expansion pack, we expect that our net revenues in the first quarter of 2010 will decrease by approximately 10-15% quarter-over-quarter. See also “Risks Relating to Our ADSs — The price of our ADSs has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile, which may make it difficult for holders to resell the ADSs when desired or at attractive prices.” While we have introduced an additional expansion pack which we believe will help reverse the decline in revenues generated from Mir II, we cannot assure you that this expansion pack will in fact achieve this desired goal. As with other online games, Mir II and Woool have finite commercial lifespans. We believe that Mir II and Woool, which we launched in 2001 and 2003, respectively, are in the more mature stages of their commercial lifespan. While we were able to reverse the decreasing trend in revenues from these two games with the adoption of our item-based revenue model in November 2005 and have since been able to continue to increase our revenues from both games, we cannot assure you that revenues from these games will not decline in the future as a result of the games reaching the end of their commercial lifespan. We may also be able to extend the commercial lifespan of Mir II and Woool by enhancing, expanding and upgrading Mir II and Woool to include new features that appeal to existing players and attract new players. If we are not able to extend the commercial lifespan of Mir II and Woool, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our new games, such as AION, may not be commercially successful, and we may fail to launch new games according to our timetable, or at all. In order to remain competitive, we must introduce new online games that are attractive to our game players and can generate additional revenues and diversify our revenue sources. We cannot assure you that we will launch all of the games that we have announced we expect to launch or that these games, if launched, will be commercially successful, and you should not use the success of our existing games as an indication of the future commercial success of any of the online games in our pipeline. Although we have launched several new online games in the past three years, none of these games individually has been able to contribute 10% or more of our net revenues annually. There are many factors that could adversely affect the popularity of our new games, and if our new games are not commercially successful, our business prospects and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected and we may not be able to recover our game sourcing or development costs, which can be significant. For example, in April 2009, we launched AION, an MMORPG that we licensed from NCSoft Corporation, a leading South Korean game developer, operator and publisher. While the launch of AION has generated significant market attention, we cannot assure you that AION will be commercially successful or meet market expectations. The failure of new games such as AION to become commercially successful could adversely affect market confidence in our future growth prospects and result in a drop in the market price of our ADSs. The timing of the launch of our pipeline games is also critical to our business. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to launch these games based on our current timetable or at all. A number of factors, including technical difficulties, insufficient game development personnel, a lack of marketing or other resources or acceptance of or interest in the new games among game players during the testing phase and adverse developments in our relationship with the licensors of our new licensed games, could result in delays in launching or prevent us from launching our new games or at all. If we fail to launch new games according to our timetable or at all, we may disappoint the game player base, fail to meet the targets for our anticipated financial and operating results or lose our market leadership position to our competitors, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Our new games may attract game players away from our existing games, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our new online games may attract game players away from our existing games and shrink our existing games’ player base, which could in turn make those existing games less attractive to other game players, resulting in decreased revenues from our existing games. Players of our existing games may also spend less money to purchase virtual items in our new games than they would have spent if they had continued playing our existing games. In addition, our game players may migrate from our existing games with a higher profit margin to new games with a lower profit margin. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes or adjustments we make to our existing or new games may not be well received by our game players. As we develop new online games or introduce updates and expansion packs to our existing games, we closely monitor our game players’ tastes and preferences and may introduce or change certain game features or game play styles to make our games more attractive. We cannot assure you that these changes or adjustments will be well received by our game players, who may decide not to play the new game or cease playing the existing game. For example, we introduced an expansion pack in Mir II which was not well received by the game’s users and led to some of the game’s users reducing the amount of virtual items they purchase in the game. As a result, any changes or adjustments we make to existing or new games may adversely impact our revenues and business prospects. There are risks that the revenue models we adopt for our online games may not be suitable. We currently operate substantially all of our online games using the item-based revenue model and have generated, and expect to continue to generate, a substantial majority of our revenues using this revenue model. Although we have adopted the item-based revenue model for substantially all of our online games, it may not be the best revenue model for our games. The item-based revenue model requires us to develop or license online games that not only attract game players to spend more time playing, but also encourage them to purchase virtual items. The sale of virtual items requires us to track closely game players’ tastes and preferences, especially as to in-game consumption patterns. If we fail to develop or offer virtual items which game players purchase, we may not be able to effectively convert our game player base into paying users. In addition, the item-based revenue model may cause additional concerns from PRC regulators who have been implementing regulations designed to reduce the amount of time that the Chinese youth spend on online games and intended to limit the total amount of virtual currency issued by online game operators and the amount purchased by an individual game player. A revenue model that does not charge for playing time may be viewed by the PRC regulators as inconsistent with this goal. Furthermore, we may change the revenue model for some of our online games if we believe the existing revenue models are not optimal. We cannot assure you that the revenue model that we have adopted for any of our online games will continue to be suitable for that game, or that we will not in the future need to switch our revenue model or introduce new revenue model for that game. A change in revenue model could result in various adverse consequences, including disruptions of our game operations, criticism from game players who have invested time and money in a game and would be adversely affected by such a change, decreases in the number of our game players or decreases in the revenues we generate from our online games. Our business could suffer if we do not successfully manage our current growth and potential future growth. To execute our growth strategies, we anticipate that we will need to manage and supervise our current game portfolio, as well as develop and source additional games. We also will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce, and manage our relationships with our game licensors, co-developers, co-operators, game players and third-party service providers. In addition, we need to implement various new or upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and to improve our accounting and other internal management systems, all of which will require substantial management efforts and financial resources and may divert our management’s attention from running our business or otherwise harm our operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to efficiently or effectively implement our growth strategies or manage our growth, and any failure to do so may limit our future growth and hamper our business strategy. There are risks associated with our pursuit of growth through acquisitions and strategic investments. In recent years we have pursued, and in the future we may continue to pursue, growth through acquisitions and strategic investments. In general, these acquired or invested companies either own intellectual property rights relating to online games or operate a network for the distribution of our online games. For example, between 2005 and 2007, Shanda Interactive completed a series of purchases in privately negotiated transactions and open market purchases, pursuant to which Shanda Interactive acquired a majority stake of the outstanding shares of Actoz, the co-owner of the intellectual property rights to Mir II. In addition, we acquired in 2007 Chengdu Aurora, which owns the intellectual property rights to Fungyun Online, in 2009 Chengdu Simo, which owns the intellectual property rights to Luvinia Online and in 2010 Goldcool, which owns the intellectual property rights to numerous MMORPGs, including Hades Realm, Zodiac Tales, and Dukes and Lords, and Mochi Media. 9 Table of Contents We may, however, fail to realize the synergies contemplated at the time of executing these transactions, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. While we have integrated the business of many of the acquired companies into our business, some of the businesses operated by these acquired companies, such as Mochi Media’s distribution and monetization platform for browser-based games worldwide, may require a significant amount of capital investment in the future, which would decrease the amount of cash available for working capital or capital expenditures. Our acquisition of these companies entails a number of other risks that could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations, including difficulties integrating the acquired company’s personnel, operations, technologies or products into our existing business, the need for financial resources above our planned investment levels, unknown and unforeseen assumed liabilities, the diversion of management resources from other strategic and operational issues, the inability to retain the key employees of the acquired companies, and the potential write-offs of acquired assets and goodwill, as well as potential expenses related to the amortization of intangible assets. See also “Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry — We may need to record impairment charges to earnings if our acquisition goodwill, investments in affiliate companies or acquired intangible assets are determined to be impaired, which would adversely affect our results of operations.” If we are unable to generate significant amounts of revenue from the acquired online games or Mochi’s distribution platform in the near future, we may suffer financial losses as a result of the acquired company’s on-going operating expenses, expenses related to the amortization of intangible assets from the acquisition, and additional share-based compensation expenses related to the acquisition. Our failure to address the risks associated with our acquisition of these companies may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We face risks associated with the licensing of our games internationally, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, our ability to expand our business internationally could be impaired. As of March 31, 2010, we licensed 15 online games to game operators in a number of countries or regions. We plan to further license our existing and new games in more countries and regions. Licensing our games in the international markets exposes us to a number of risks, including: • identifying and maintaining good relations with game operators who are knowledgeable in, and can effectively distribute and operate our games in, international markets; • negotiating licensing agreements with game operators on terms that are commercially acceptable to us and enforcing the provisions of those agreements; • developing games, updates and expansion packs catering to overseas markets and renewing our license agreements with game operators upon expiration; • maintaining the reputation of our company and our games, given that our games are operated by game operators in the international markets with different standards; • protecting our intellectual property rights overseas and managing the related costs; • auditing the royalties we are entitled to receive; • complying with the different commercial and legal requirements of the international markets in which our games are offered, such as game import regulatory procedures, taxes and other restrictions and expenses; and • managing our foreign currency risks. In addition, our plan to continue to license our games in international markets may also be adversely affected by public opinion or government policies in markets in which we license our games. For example, South Korea requires online game operators, such as Actoz, to obtain ratings classifications for online games and implement procedures to restrict minors from accessing online games. More recently, the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism in South Korea has enacted rules which require certain online game operators to automatically log off underage users of certain online games and to slow down the Internet speed for underage users who have been logged on continuously for too many hours. If we are not able to license our games internationally as planned, our business, financial conditions and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents We or our licensors, co-developers, co-operators or investees may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us or our licensors, co-developers, co-operators or investees, may materially disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that in-house developed, licensed, co-developed or co-operated online games or other content posted on our website do not and will not infringe upon patents, copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. As of March 31, 2010, 12 of the games we operated were developed in-house, 11 were licensed from third parties, eight were invested in or acquired from third parties, one was co-developed with a third party, and two were co-operated with a third party. We or any of our licensors, co-developers, co-operators or online game developers and operators in which we have invested through 18 Capital may be perceived or alleged to infringe upon patents, copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights held by third parties and become subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property rights of others. For example, in 2003, Actoz and Wemade Entertainment Co., Ltd. filed a lawsuit against Shanda Interactive in the Beijing First Intermediate People’s Court alleging copyright infringement and unfair competition claims with respect to Woool. These claims were settled in February 2007. If we, our licensors, co-developers, co-operators or online game developers and operators in which we have invested through 18 Capital are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be subject to monetary damages and be enjoined from using such intellectual property, or we may incur new or additional licensing costs if we wish to continue using the infringing content, be forced to develop or license alternatives or be forced to stop operating a game, any of which may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, we may incur substantial expenses and require significant attention of management in defending against these third-party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Some of our employees were previously employed at other companies, including some of our current and potential competitors. To the extent these employees or any employees we may hire in the future are involved in research that is similar to the research that they performed at their former employers, our competitors may file lawsuits or initiate proceedings against us alleging that these employees violated the intellectual property rights, such as trade secret rights, of their former employers. Although we are not aware of any pending or threatened claims alleging these types of violations of intellectual property rights, if any such claim arises in the future, litigation or other dispute resolution proceedings may be necessary to retain our ability to offer our current and future games, which could be costly and divert financial and management resources. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We regard our copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of the intellectual property used in our business, whether owned by us or licensed to us, may adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely on copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property law, as well as non-competition, confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, licensors, business partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Our employees are generally required to sign agreements acknowledging that all inventions, trade secrets, works of authorship, developments and other processes generated by them on our behalf are our property, and assigning to us any ownership rights that they may claim in those works. Despite our precautions, third parties may obtain and use intellectual property that we own or license without our consent. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may materially and adversely affect our business. For instance, pirate game servers illegally operate unauthorized copies of our online games and enable players to play those games without purchasing prepaid cards for our online games. Despite our efforts to shut down pirate game servers, we believe that a significant number of pirate game servers continue to operate unauthorized copies of our online games. If pirate game servers continue to operate any of our online games, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws and enforcement procedures in the PRC are uncertain and do not protect intellectual property rights in this area to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement procedures in the United States and other developed countries. Policing unauthorized use of intellectual properties is difficult and expensive. Any steps we have taken to prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual properties may be inadequate. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and could disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be materially harmed if our online games are not featured prominently in a sufficient number of Internet cafes in China. A substantial number of game players access our games through Internet cafes in China. Due to limited hardware capacity, Internet cafes generally feature a limited number of games on their computers. We thus compete with a growing number of online game operators to have our online games featured on these computers. This competition has intensified in China due to a nationwide suspension of approval for the establishment of new Internet cafes in 2007. See “— Risks Relating to Regulation of Our Business and to Our Structure — The PRC government has tightened its regulation of Internet cafes, which are currently one of the primary venues for our users to play online games. Intensified government regulation of Internet cafes could restrict our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and expand our game player base.” If we fail to feature our games prominently and sufficiently in Internet cafes in China or fail to do so in a cost-effective manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents We depend on certain VIEs of Shanda Online to provide services that are critical to our business. The termination of either or both of these service agreements or any failure of or significant quality deterioration in these services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have engaged certain VIEs of Shanda Online to provide certain services that are critical to our business. Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Cooperation Agreement between Shanda Networking and Nanjing Shanda, on the one hand, and the Shulong entities, on the other hand, we have engaged Shanda Networking to provide certain services, including, among others, online billing and payment, user authentication, customer service, anti-fatigue compliance, prepaid card marketing and data support services for a period of five years commencing July 1, 2008. Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Sales Agency Agreement between Shengfutong and the Shulong entities, we have engaged Shengfutong for a period of five years commencing July 1, 2008 as the sales agent for the distribution of prepaid cards which are required to purchase virtual items or time units in our online games. Under the terms of these agreements, we are not permitted to engage any other party to provide such services to us, while Shanda Networking and Shengfutong are permitted to provide such services to other parties. Since we do not control Shanda Networking and Shengfutong, and because we depend on Shanda Networking and Shengfutong for the provision of services that are critical to the operation of our online game business, we face certain risks with respect to our arrangements with such entities. If Shanda Networking or Shengfutong breaches its respective obligations under the respective agreements, terminates these agreements, or refuses to renew these agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all, we may not be able to find a suitable alternative service provider or be able to establish our own integrated service platform or distribution network in a timely manner. Similarly, if we breach the terms of the agreements, Shanda Networking or Shengfutong could terminate these agreements and halt services that are critical to our online game business. Termination of either or both of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure of or significant quality deterioration in Shanda Networking’s integrated service platform could materially and adversely affect our business. For example, we rely on Shanda Networking’s customer service representatives as the first point of contact to serve our game players. Shanda Networking handles customer requests such as providing account settlement-related services, retrieving forgotten passwords and recovering lost user accounts, and liaises with our game management team if the inquiries involve game-related technical problems, such as recovering virtual items and in-game characters. We also rely on Shanda Networking to provide user authentication services for our game players who access our games through Shanda Networking’s integrated service platform. If Shanda Networking fails to address customer service requests properly and in a timely manner, our game players may be unable to access our games or attribute any unpleasant experience with Shanda Networking’s customer service to us, which could harm our reputation. As a result, we may fail to retain existing and attract new game players and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, we rely on Shengfutong to provide prepaid card distribution services. Shengfutong relies heavily on a distribution network composed of third-party distributors for its sales to game players. As Shengfutong does not enter into long-term agreements with any of its distributors, there can be no assurance that Shengfutong will be able to continue to maintain favorable relationships with them. If Shengfutong fails to maintain a stable and efficient distribution network or if there is any failure of or significant quality deterioration in Shengfutong’s distribution services, our game players may be unable to purchase prepaid cards for our games, and as a result, we may fail to retain existing and attract new game players, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Shanda Networking provides integrated platform services to some of our competitors, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. Shanda Networking provides integrated platform services to other online game companies that compete with us, including Kingsoft Corporation Limited, or Kingsoft, LineKong Entertainment Technology Co., Ltd. and Shanghai Storm Information Technology, Co., Ltd., or Shanghai Storm, and may enter into additional similar commercial relationships with other online game companies. These commercial relationships may strengthen these online game companies’ market share and enable them to achieve market acceptance of their game and services, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, the online games that our competitors offer through Shanda Networking’s integrated service platform may attract away players of our games and shrink our games’ player base, which could in turn make our games less attractive to other players. Furthermore, if our current game players spend money to play or purchase virtual items in our competitors’ games offered through Shanda Networking’s integrated service platform that would otherwise have been spent on our games, our business, financial conditions and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents We could be liable for any failure, service interruption or security breach of Shanda Networking’s online payment platform, and the reduction in sales made through those channels may have a material adverse impact on our revenues. Currently, we rely on the online payment system on Shanda Networking’s integrated service platform for all of our direct sales of our virtual prepaid cards to our game players. Secured transmission of confidential information, such as game players’ credit card numbers and expiration dates, personal information and billing addresses over public networks, is essential to maintaining consumer confidence in such payment channels and to allowing us to collect payments on a timely basis. We expect that an increasing amount of the direct sales of prepaid cards will be conducted over the Internet as a result of the growing use of online payment systems. As a result, associated online crime will likely increase as well and we cannot assure you that Shanda Networking’s current security measures and those of the third parties with whom Shanda Networking transacts business are adequate. Security breaches of these online payment systems could result in non-collection of payments, expose us to litigation and possible liability for failing to protect confidential game player information and could harm our reputation and our ability to retain existing and attract new game players and to encourage the consumption of our online games by game players. We face the risks of uncertainties in the growth of the online game industry and market acceptance of our online games. The growth of this industry and the level of demand and market acceptance of our online games are subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Our results of operations will depend on factors beyond our control, including: • the growth rate in the number of users of personal computers, Internet and broadband in China and other markets in which our online games are offered; • whether the online game industry, particularly in China and the rest of the Asia-Pacific region, continues to grow and the rate of any such growth; • changes in consumer demographics, tastes or preferences; • the popularity and price of new online games and virtual items that we and our competitors launch and distribute; • our ability to timely upgrade and improve our existing games to extend their commercial lifespan and to maintain or expand their market share in the online game industry; • the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment, particularly console system games such as those made by Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony, which are already popular in many other countries and may gain popularity in China and other countries or regions in which we market our online games; and • general economic conditions, particularly economic conditions that impact the level of discretionary consumer spending. Our ability to plan for product development and distribution and promotional activities will be significantly affected by our ability to anticipate and adapt to relatively rapid changes in consumer tastes and preferences. Although MMORPGs are currently popular in China, there is no assurance that they will continue to be popular in China or elsewhere. A decline in the popularity of online games in general, or the MMORPGs that we operate, would adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. We must be able to track and respond to these changes in game players’ preferences in a timely and effective manner. Furthermore, given that the item-based revenue model relies on in-game purchases, we must be able to track and respond quickly to changes in game preferences and consumer spending trends. We may not be able to adapt to the rapidly evolving online game industry in China. China’s online game industry is evolving rapidly. We need to adapt to new industry trends, including changes in game players’ preferences, new revenue models, new game content distribution models, new technologies and new governmental regulations. We evaluate these changes as they emerge and strive to adapt our business and operations in order to maintain and strengthen our leadership in the industry. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so successfully, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face significant competition which could reduce our market share and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The online game industry in China is highly competitive. In recent years, numerous competitors have entered the online game industry in China. We expect more companies to enter the market and we expect a wider range of online games to be introduced to China. Competition from other online game operators, both based in China as well as overseas, is likely to increase in the future. Other online game operators or developers, such as China-based Changyou.com Limited, Giant Interactive Group, Inc., Kingsoft, KongZhong Corporation, NetDragon Websoft Inc., NetEase.com, Nineyou International Limited, Perfect World Co., Ltd., Tencent Holdings Limited, and The9 Limited, as well as international game developers, such as Activision Blizzard, Inc., Electronic Arts Inc., NCSoft Corporation, Nexon Corporation, NHN Corp. and Webzen, Inc., are our current or potential future competitors. As the online game industry in China is constantly evolving, our current or future competitors may 13 Table of Contents compete more successfully as the industry matures. In particular, any of these competitors may offer products and services that provide significant performance, price, creativity or other advantages over those offered by us. These products and services may weaken our brand name and achieve greater market acceptance than ours. In addition, even if we are successful in launching new online games, competitors may launch similar online games which compete for potential game players. Furthermore, any of our current or future competitors may be acquired by, receive investments from or enter into other strategic or commercial relationships with larger, more established and better financed companies and therefore, obtain significantly greater financial, marketing and game licensing and development resources than us. In addition, increased competition in the online game industry in China could make it difficult for us to retain existing players and attract new players. Moreover, we may face competition from console systems that have achieved significant success in markets other than China but have yet to be permitted to be sold legally in China due to regulatory and other reasons. If these console systems, many of which are strengthening their online game features, are permitted to be sold in China, we may face additional competition. We also compete with other forms of entertainment, such as television and movies. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We depend on our key personnel, and our business and growth prospects may be severely disrupted if we lose their services or are unable to attract new key employees. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our key executive officers and other key employees. In particular, we rely on the expertise, experience and leadership ability of Mr. Qunzhao Tan, our chairman and chief executive officer, as well as the co-founder of our business, Mr. Tianqiao Chen, our director, the chairman of Shanda Interactive and the co-founder of our business, Mr. Hai Ling, our president, Mr. Richard Wei, our chief financial officer, Mr. Xiangdong Zhang, our chief producer and Mr. Jisheng Zhu, our chief technology officer and acting chief operating officer. We also rely on a number of key technology officers and staff for the development and operation of our online games. In addition, as we expect to focus increasingly on the development of our own online games, we will need to continue attracting and retaining skilled and experienced online game development personnel to maintain our competitiveness. If one or more of our key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel, our business could be severely disrupted, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key personnel. In addition, if any of our executive officers or key employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose know-how, trade secrets, suppliers and key professionals and staff. All of our employees, including each of our executive officers and key employees, have entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains customary non-compete provisions. Although non-compete provisions are generally enforceable under PRC laws, PRC legal practice regarding the enforceability of such provisions is not as well-developed as those in countries such as the United States. Thus, if we are required to enforce our rights under the non-compete provisions, we cannot assure you that a PRC court would enforce such provisions. Furthermore, since the demand and competition for talent is intense in our industry, particularly for online game development personnel and related technical personnel, we may need to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain key personnel in the future, which could increase our compensation expenses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain the key personnel that we will need to implement our strategies and achieve our business objectives. The global financial and economic crisis, particularly the slowdown in the Chinese economy, may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The global financial markets have experienced significant disruptions recently, and most of the world’s major economies entered into recession. The Chinese economy has also slowed down significantly since the second half of 2008 and this trend may continue in 2010 and beyond. Since we currently derive substantially all of our revenues from game players in China, any prolonged slowdown in the Chinese economy may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition if our game players reduce the amount they spend on our online games. In addition, our plan to expand our business internationally may be adversely affected by an economic downturn in the countries or regions where we license or intend to license our online games. The occurrence of any of the foregoing would adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents If we fail to anticipate or successfully implement new technologies, our games may become obsolete or uncompetitive, and our business prospects and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The online game industry is subject to rapid technological change. We need to anticipate the emergence of new technologies and assess their market acceptance. In addition, government authorities or industry organizations may adopt new standards that apply to game development. We also need to invest significant financial resources in product development to keep pace with technological advances. However, development activities are inherently uncertain, and our significant expenditures on technologies may not generate corresponding benefits. If we fall behind in adopting new technologies or standards, our existing games may lose popularity, and our newly developed games may not be well received by our game players. In addition, we may incur significant cost overrun in product development, which would materially and adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. Errors or defects in our online games and the proliferation of cheating programs could materially and adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. Our online games may contain errors or other defects. In addition, parties unrelated to us have developed, and may continue to develop, Internet cheating programs that enable game players to obtain unfair advantages over other game players who do not use such programs. Furthermore, certain cheating programs could cause the loss of a character’s superior features acquired by a player. The occurrence of errors or defects in our online games or our failure to discover and disable cheating programs affecting the fairness of our game environment could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and discourage our game players from playing our games. As a result, such errors, defects and cheating programs could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Network interruptions, security breaches or computer virus attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects and results of operations. Any failure to maintain the satisfactory performance, reliability, security and availability of our network infrastructure, including as a result of natural disasters such as earthquakes and floods, may cause significant harm to our reputation and our ability to retain existing and attract new game players. We maintain a distributed server network architecture with third-party service providers hosting servers in more than one hundred cities throughout China. We do not maintain full backup for our server network hardware. Major risks involved in such network infrastructure include: • any break-downs or system failures resulting in a sustained shutdown of all or a material portion of our servers, including failures which may be attributable to sustained power shutdowns, or efforts to gain unauthorized access to our systems causing loss or corruption of data or malfunctions of software or hardware; and • any disruption or failure in the national backbone network, which would prevent our players outside Shanghai from logging on to any of our games, or playing games for which the servers are all located in Shanghai. In the past, our server network has experienced unexpected outages for several hours and occasional slower performance in a number of locations in China as a result of failures by third-party service providers. Our network systems are also vulnerable to damage from fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer virus, hackings and similar events. Any network interruption or inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of our games or deterioration in the quality of access to our games could reduce our game players’ satisfaction. In addition, any security breach caused by hacking, which involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems, or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, and the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not maintain insurance policies covering losses relating to our systems and we do not have business interruption insurance. The successful operation of our business and implementation of our growth strategies, including our ability to accommodate additional game players in the future, depend upon the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure and fixed line and wireless telecommunications networks in China. Although there are private sector Internet service providers in China, almost all access to the Internet is maintained through state-owned telecommunications operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or the MIIT. We rely on this infrastructure to provide data communications capacity primarily through local telecommunications lines and wireless telecommunication networks. In addition, the national networks in China are connected to the Internet through international gateways controlled by the PRC government. These international gateways are the only channels through which a domestic user can connect to the Internet and may not support the demand necessary for the continued growth in Internet usage. Although the PRC government has announced plans to develop aggressively the national information infrastructure, we cannot assure you that this infrastructure will be developed as planned or at all. In addition, we have no access to alternative networks and services on a timely basis, if at all, in the event of any infrastructure disruption or failure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents The limited use of personal computers in China and the relatively high cost of Internet access may limit the development of the Internet in China and thus impede our growth. Although the use of personal computers in China has increased in recent years, the penetration rate of personal computers in China is still much lower than that in the United States. In addition, despite a decrease in the cost of Internet access in China due to a decrease in the cost of personal computers and the greater availability of broadband Internet access, the cost of personal Internet access, in contrast with Internet access through Internet cafes, remains relatively high in comparison to the average per capita income in China. These factors may limit the growth of our business. Furthermore, any Internet access or other telecommunications fee increase could reduce the number of game players who play our online games. We may need to record impairment charges to earnings if our acquisition goodwill, investments in affiliate companies or acquired intangible assets are determined to be impaired, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We acquire or invest in companies whose businesses supplement our business and license online games from third parties. We record acquisition goodwill, investments in affiliate companies and acquired intangible assets on our balance sheet in connection with such acquisitions, investments and licensing arrangements, respectively. We are required to review our acquisition goodwill for impairment at least annually and review our investments in affiliate companies and acquired intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable, including a decline in stock price and market capitalization and a slow down in our industry, which may result from the recent global economic slowdown. If the carrying value of our acquisition goodwill, investments in affiliate companies or acquired intangible assets were determined to be impaired, we would be required to write down the carrying value or to record charges to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which our acquisition goodwill, investments in affiliate companies or acquired intangible assets is determined to be impaired, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We have limited business insurance coverage in China. China’s insurance industry is still at an early stage of development. In particular, PRC insurance companies do not offer many business insurance products available in other countries. As a result, we do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might cause us to incur substantial costs and the diversion of resources. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and as a result investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, has adopted rules requiring every public company to include a report of management on the effectiveness of such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must issue an attestation report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. These requirements will first apply to our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010. When we were a business unit of Shanda Interactive, we were required to maintain an effective internal control over financial reporting as part of Shanda Interactive’s compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. However, in light of our new status as a public company, our management will have to evaluate our internal control system independently with new thresholds of materiality and to implement necessary changes to account for that status. Our management may conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still issue an adverse report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting if such firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if such firm interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. During the course of such evaluation, documentation and testing, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remedy in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. We also anticipate that we will incur considerable costs and devote significant management time and efforts and other resources to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we fail to timely achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. Moreover, effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and important to help prevent fraud. Our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could impair our ability to comply with applicable financial reporting requirements and related regulatory filings on a timely basis and result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs, could be materially and adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents You may not be able to rely on our quarterly operating results as an indication of our future performance because our quarterly operating results may be subject to significant fluctuations. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could be caused by any of the factors identified in this section, including, but not limited to: • our ability to retain existing users, attract new game players at a steady rate and maintain user satisfaction; • the announcement or introduction of new games or updates or expansion packs to existing games by us or our competitors; • the range, number and pricing of virtual items available for sale; • technical difficulties, system downtime or Internet failures; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; • the adoption of new, or changes to existing, governmental regulations; • seasonality effect during holidays in the second quarter and the fourth quarter, when generally, fewer game players play our games; • a shortfall in our revenues relative to our forecasts and a decline in our operating results; • the introduction and nationwide roll-out of the third-generation wireless telecommunication network in China; and • economic conditions in general and specific to the online game industry and to China. For example, on March 1, 2010, we announced that we expected our net revenues in the first quarter of 2010 to decrease by 10-15% quarter-over-quarter, primarily as a result of the introduction of an expansion pack in Mir II which was not well received by the game’s users and led to some of the game’s users reducing the amount of virtual items they purchase in the game. On that day, the market price of our ADSs decreased by approximately 18%, and on the following night, further decreased by approximately 6%. While we have introduced an additional expansion pack which we believe will help reverse the decline in our revenues generated from Mir II, we cannot assure you that this expansion pack will in fact achieve this desired goal. If this expansion pack does not achieve this desired goal, the price of our ADSs could decline even further. As a result, you should not rely on the year to year comparisons of our operating results or our quarterly operational metrics such as active paying accounts and monthly average revenues per active paying account, in this annual report as indicators of our likely future performance. Our operating results may be below our expectations or the expectations of public market analysts and investors in one or more future quarters. If that occurs, the price of our ADSs could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Relating to the Reorganization and Our Continued Relationship with Shanda Interactive We have limited experience operating as a standalone company. As a part of the reorganization, Shanda Interactive, our parent, transferred substantially all of its assets and liabilities relating to its online game business to us and we began to operate as a standalone company. Although we had operated as a business unit of Shanda Interactive prior to the reorganization, we have had limited experience in conducting our operations as a standalone company. As we adjust to operating as a standalone company, we may not be able to react as quickly as our competitors to changes in the industry and markets in which we compete. In addition, since we have become a public company, our management team will need to develop the expertise necessary to comply with the numerous regulatory and other requirements applicable to public companies, including requirements relating to corporate governance, listing standards and investor relations, any of which may divert our management’s attention from running our business. As we have limited experience in operating as a standalone company, we may need to acquire assets in addition to those contributed to us in connection with the reorganization. We may fail to acquire these assets that prove to be important to our operations or may not be able to integrate all of our assets. 17 Table of Contents Our financial information included in this annual report may not be representative of our results as a standalone company. For the period from January 1, 2007 to June 30, 2008, our consolidated financial statements were prepared on a combined basis. We made numerous estimates, assumptions and allocations in our financial information because Shanda Interactive did not account for us, and we did not operate, as a standalone company for any period prior to July 1, 2008. Before Shanda Interactive transferred the assets and operations of its online game business to us effective July 1, 2008, the operations of our online game business had been carried out by Shanda Interactive. For the period from January 1, 2007 to June 30, 2008, our consolidated financial statements were prepared by combining the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows of the entities that were directly engaged in the online game business. With respect to operating expenses, an allocation of certain general corporate expenses of Shanda Interactive which are directly related to the online game business, such as corporate employee compensation costs, professional service fees and other expenses arising from the provisions of certain corporate functions including finance, legal, technology, investment and executive management, was also included. The allocation is based on a variety of factors depending upon the nature of the expenses being allocated, including the number of employees and historical revenue, as well as estimated time incurred by Shanda Interactive’s executives for the online game business. Although our management believes that the assumptions underlying our consolidated financial statements for the periods prior to the reorganization and the above allocations are reasonable, our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008 may not be reflective of our result of operations, financial position and cash flows had we been operated as a standalone company during those periods. Therefore, our historical financial information may not be a reliable indicator of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future. We may not be able to continue to receive the same level of support from Shanda Interactive. Our online game business has benefited significantly from Shanda Interactive’s brand name and strong market position in China. In addition, we have benefited from using Shanda Networking’s integrated service platform, which provides Shanda Interactive’s large number of registered game players with access to our online games, and Shengfutong’s prepaid card distribution services. Although we have entered into the Amended and Restated Non-Compete and Non-Solicitation Agreement, Amended and Restated Cooperation Agreement, Amended and Restated Sales Agency Agreement and other related agreements with Shanda Interactive, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to receive the same level of support from Shanda Interactive in the future. Some of the terms of our agreements with Shanda Interactive and its affiliates may be less favorable to us than similar agreements negotiated between unaffiliated third parties. The various agreements that we entered into with Shanda Interactive and its affiliates in connection with the reorganization when we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of Shanda Interactive may be less favorable to us than would be the case if they were negotiated with unaffiliated third parties. For example, pursuant to the Amended and Restated Cooperation Agreement and the Amended and Restated Sales Agency Agreement, we have engaged certain VIEs of Shanda Online to provide services that are critical to our business, including online billing and payment, user authentication, customer service, anti-fatigue compliance, prepaid card marketing and distribution and data support services for a five-year period commencing July 1, 2008. While we believe we benefit from these agreements, such agreements were negotiated between a parent company and its wholly-owned subsidiary in connection with the reorganization and therefore may not reflect the terms that would have been reached by two unaffiliated parties negotiating at arm’s length. Moreover, pursuant to our Master Separation Agreement with Shanda Interactive, we agreed to indemnify Shanda Interactive for, among other things, liabilities arising from litigation and other contingencies related to our online game business and assumed these liabilities as part of the reorganization. The allocation of assets and liabilities between Shanda Interactive and our company may not reflect the allocation that would have been reached by two unaffiliated parties. Moreover, so long as Shanda Interactive continues to control us, we may not be able to bring a legal claim against Shanda Interactive in the event of a contractual breach, notwithstanding our contractual rights under the agreements described above and any other agreement we may enter into with Shanda Interactive from time to time. 18 Table of Contents The Amended and Restated Non-Compete and Non-Solicitation Agreement with Shanda Interactive, our parent, contains certain exceptions and may not be effective in preventing Shanda Interactive from engaging in certain transactions that directly or indirectly may compete with (or be perceived to be in competition with) our online game business. In connection with the reorganization, we entered into a Non-Compete and Non-Solicitation Agreement (which was amended and restated on September 10, 2009) with Shanda Interactive, our parent, pursuant to which Shanda Interactive has agreed, for a period of five years commencing July 1, 2008, not to engage, and to cause each other member of the Shanda Group (other than Shanda Games) not to engage, directly or indirectly, in the online game business anywhere in the world. This agreement is subject to important exceptions, namely, (1) certain of Shanda Interactive’s subsidiaries may continue to engage in their current PC network and e-sports platform businesses, online interactive music community, and online chess and board game platform business, (2) Shanda Interactive may acquire equity interests in a company that does not have more than 25.0% of its gross revenues (based on the latest annual audited financial statements of the investee company) attributable to the online game business and (3) Shanda Interactive may operate virtual communities with certain online game features, provided that such features do not constitute the core business model of such community. In addition, the agreement permits Shanda Interactive to acquire or invest in any third party engaging in the online game business if, after using its reasonable best efforts to make such investment opportunity available to us as required under the agreement, we do not pursue such opportunity; provided that Shanda Interactive’s equity interest in such third party shall not exceed 50%. Because of the exceptions to the agreement described above, we cannot assure you that the Amended and Restated Non-Compete and Non-Solicitation Agreement will be effective in preventing Shanda Interactive from engaging in certain conduct or transactions that directly or indirectly may compete with (or be perceived to be in competition with) our online game business. Even if there is no actual direct or indirect competition to our online game business, the perception by investors or securities analysts of possible competition from Shanda Interactive could adversely affect our business prospects and the price of our ADSs. Nor can we assure you that Shanda Interactive will not breach the Amended and Restated Non-Compete and Non-Solicitation Agreement. Although non-compete and non-solicitation agreements are generally enforceable under PRC laws, PRC legal practice regarding the enforceability of such agreements is not as well-developed as those in countries such as the United States. Thus, if we were required to enforce our rights under the Amended and Restated Non-Compete and Non-Solicitation Agreement, we cannot assure you that a PRC court would enforce such agreement. Even if such agreement is enforced, we may not receive adequate remedies from courts in China or elsewhere. In addition, Shanda Interactive may not extend or renew the Amended and Restated Non-Compete and Non-Solicitation Agreement and may decide to compete with us upon expiration of the agreement. Shanda Interactive will control the outcome of shareholder actions in our company. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, our ordinary shares are divided into Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Holders of Class A ordinary shares are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B ordinary shares are entitled to 10 votes per share. Shanda Interactive held 409,087,000 Class B ordinary shares, or approximately 71.0% of the combined total outstanding ordinary shares (representing approximately 96.1% of the total voting rights) in our company as of December 31, 2009. Shanda Interactive’s shareholding, in particular the greater voting rights of the Class B ordinary shares it holds, gives it the power to control any actions that require shareholder approval under Cayman Islands law, our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association and the NASDAQ requirements, including the election and removal of any member of our board of directors, mergers, consolidations and other business combinations, changes to our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the number of shares available for issuance under share incentive plans and the issuance of significant amounts of our ordinary shares in private placements. Due to the disparate voting rights attached to the two classes of our ordinary shares, Shanda Interactive could have sufficient voting rights to determine the outcome of all matters requiring shareholder approval even if it should, at some point in the future, hold considerably less than a majority of the combined total of our outstanding Class A and Class B ordinary shares. As a result of Shanda Interactive’s ownership of Class B ordinary shares, Shanda Interactive’s voting power may cause transactions to occur that might not be beneficial to you as a holder of our ADSs and may prevent transactions that would be beneficial to you. For example, Shanda Interactive’s voting power may prevent a transaction involving a change of control of us, including transactions in which you as a holder of our ADSs might otherwise receive a premium for your securities over the then-current market price. Similarly, Shanda Interactive may approve a merger or consolidation of our company which may result in you receiving a stake (either in the form of shares, debt obligations or other securities) in the surviving or new consolidated company which may not operate our current business model and dissenter rights may not be available to you in such an event. In addition, Shanda Interactive is not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in us to a third party and may do so without your approval. If Shanda Interactive sells its controlling interest in us to a third party, is acquired or otherwise undergoes a change of control, any acquiror or successor will be entitled to exercise voting control over the Class B ordinary shares held by Shanda Interactive and may do so in a manner that could vary significantly from that of Shanda Interactive. In addition, our director, Mr. Tianqiao Chen, owns a substantial equity interest in Shanda Interactive, serves as its chairman and chief executive officer and controls its corporate actions, and thereby controls the outcome of shareholder actions in our company indirectly through Shanda Interactive. Mr. Chen’s voting control could also cause transactions to occur that might not be beneficial to you as a holder of our ADSs and could prevent transactions that would be beneficial to you. 19 Table of Contents We may have conflicts of interest with Shanda Interactive. Because of Shanda Interactive’s controlling ownership interest in our company, we may not be able to resolve such conflicts on terms favorable to us. Conflicts of interest may arise between Shanda Interactive and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Potential conflicts of interest that we have identified include the following: • Indemnification arrangements with Shanda Interactive. In connection with the reorganization, we have agreed to indemnify Shanda Interactive with respect to liabilities relating to our online game business, including operations of that business when it was a business unit of Shanda Interactive prior to the reorganization. These indemnification arrangements could result in our having interests that are adverse to those of Shanda Interactive, such as different interests with respect to settlement arrangements in the event of litigation. • Non-compete agreement with Shanda Interactive. Shanda Interactive has agreed not to compete with us in the online game business anywhere in the world for a five-year period commencing July 1, 2008, subject to certain exceptions that may present conflicts of interests. See “— Risks Relating to the Reorganization and Our Continued Relationship with Shanda Interactive — The Amended and Restated Non-Compete and Non-Solicitation Agreement with Shanda Interactive, our parent, contains certain exceptions and may not be effective in preventing Shanda Interactive from engaging in certain transactions that directly or indirectly may compete with (or be perceived to be in competition with) our online game business.” • Employee recruitment and retention. Because both Shanda Interactive and we operate primarily in Shanghai and are engaged in the interactive entertainment business, we may compete with Shanda Interactive in the hiring of new employees, in particular with respect to those involved in interactive entertainment content development and operation. While the Amended and Restated Non-Compete and Non-Solicitation Agreement restricts Shanda Interactive from inducing any of our employees to terminate his or her employment with us, we cannot assure you that Shanda Interactive will not breach this agreement. • Our board members or executive officers may have conflicts of interest. Mr. Qunzhao Tan, our chairman and chief executive officer, currently also serves as a member of the board of directors of Shanda Interactive. In addition, Mr. Tianqiao Chen and Mr. Danian Chen, both of whom are our directors, currently also serve as Shanda Interactive’s chairman and chief executive officer, and chief operating officer and as a member of the board of directors of Shanda Interactive, respectively. A majority of our directors and executive officers also own shares and/or options to purchase shares in Shanda Interactive. Shanda Interactive may continue to grant incentive share compensation to our board members and executive officers from time to time. These relationships could create perceived or actual conflicts of interest when these persons are faced with decisions with potentially different implications for Shanda Interactive and us. • Transfer of assets. In connection with the reorganization, Shanda Interactive transferred substantially all of its assets and liabilities related to its online game business to us. However, there may be assets (such as intellectual property rights) that are required for our business but were not part of the assets transferred to us pursuant to the Master Separation Agreement or otherwise have not been transferred to us. If Shanda Interactive refuses to transfer such assets to us or if we are not able to secure similar assets on terms acceptable to us or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. • Sale of shares in our company. Shanda Interactive may decide to sell all or a portion of the Class B ordinary shares that it holds to a third party, including to one of our competitors, thereby giving that third party substantial influence over our business and our affairs. Such a sale could be contrary to the interests of certain of our shareholders, including our employees and our public shareholders, and affect the implementation of our business strategy. • Allocation of business opportunities. Business opportunities may arise that both we and Shanda Interactive find attractive, and which would complement our respective businesses. Although Shanda Interactive has agreed in the Amended and Restated Non-Compete and Non-Solicitation Agreement with us not to acquire equity interests in third-party online game businesses without first using its reasonable best efforts to make such investment opportunities available to us, subject to certain limited exceptions, we may not be able to pursue the business opportunities effectively if Shanda Interactive decides to take advantage of such opportunities itself notwithstanding such agreement. • Services provided by Shanda Networking to our competitors. Shanda Networking provides integrated services to other online game companies that compete with us. These commercial relationships are beyond our control and may negatively affect our business. See “— Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry — Shanda Networking provides integrated platform services to some of our competitors, which may have a material adverse effect on our business.” • Developing business relationships with Shanda Interactive’s competitors. So long as Shanda Interactive remains our controlling shareholder, we may be limited in our ability to do business with its competitors, such as other interactive entertainment media companies in China. 20 Table of Contents Although our company is a standalone entity, we expect to operate, for as long as Shanda Interactive is our controlling shareholder, as a part of the Shanda Group. Shanda Interactive may from time to time make strategic decisions that it believes are in the best interests of the Shanda Group as a whole. These decisions may be different from the decisions that we would have made on our own. Shanda Interactive’s decisions with respect to us or our business may be resolved in ways that favor Shanda Interactive and therefore Shanda Interactive’s own shareholders, which may not coincide with the interests of our other shareholders. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and even if we do so, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated shareholder. Even if both parties seek to transact business on terms intended to approximate those that could have been achieved among unaffiliated parties, this may not succeed in practice. Risks Relating to Regulation of Our Business and to Our Structure If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our China business do not comply with its restrictions on foreign investment in the online game industry, we could be subject to severe penalties. On December 11, 2001, the PRC State Council promulgated Regulations for the Administration of Foreign-invested Telecommunications Enterprises, or the FITE Regulations, which became effective on January 1, 2002 and were subsequently amended on September 10, 2008. Under the FITE Regulations, foreign ownership of companies that provide value-added telecommunication services, which includes online game operation, is limited to 50%. In addition, foreign and foreign-invested enterprises are currently not able to apply for the licenses required to operate online games in China. Since we are a Cayman Islands exempted company and therefore are a foreign or foreign-invested enterprise under PRC law, neither we nor our PRC subsidiaries are eligible to hold a license to operate online games in China. In order to comply with the foreign ownership restrictions, we operate our online game business in China through Shanghai Shulong, which is wholly owned by Dongxu Wang and Yingfeng Zhang, two PRC citizens, and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Shulong Computer, Nanjing Shulong, Chengdu Simo, Chengdu Aurora and the Youji entities. Except as otherwise disclosed in “— The laws and regulations governing the online game industry and related businesses in China are developing and subject to future changes. If we or any of our PRC operating companies fail to obtain or maintain all applicable permits and approvals, our business and operations would be materially and adversely affected”, Shanghai Shulong holds the licenses and approvals that are required to operate our online game business. Our PRC subsidiaries have entered into a series of contractual arrangements with Shanghai Shulong and/or its shareholders. As a result of these contractual arrangements, we are considered the primary beneficiary of Shanghai Shulong and its subsidiaries and consolidate the results of operations of Shanghai Shulong and its subsidiaries in our financial statements. On July 13, 2006, the MIIT issued the Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Foreign Investment in Value-added Telecommunication Services, or the MIIT Circular 2006. According to the MIIT Circular 2006, since the FITE Regulations went into effect, some foreign investors had engaged in value-added telecom services illegally by conspiring with domestic value-added telecom enterprises to circumvent the requirements of the FITE Regulations by delegating domain names and licensing trademarks. In order to further strengthen the administration of FITEs, the MIIT Circular 2006 provides that any domain name or trademark used by a value-added telecom carrier shall be legally owned by such carrier or its shareholders. The MIIT Circular 2006 also provides that the operation site and facilities of a value-added telecom carrier shall be installed within the scope as prescribed by operating licenses obtained by the carrier and shall correspond to the value-added telecom services that the carrier has been approved to provide. In addition, value-added telecom carriers are required to establish or improve the measures to ensure network security. As to the companies which have obtained the operating licenses for value-added telecom services, they are required to conduct a self-examination and self-correction according to the above requirements and report the results of such self-examination and self-correction to the provincial branches of the MIIT. As some of the domain names and trademarks that we use in our operations are not owned by Shanghai Shulong or its shareholders, we may be in violation of the provisions of the MIIT Circular 2006. As a result, we may be subject to various penalties, including fines and the discontinuation of or restrictions on our operations. In the opinion of Jade & Fountain PRC Lawyers, our PRC legal counsel, except for otherwise disclosed in this annual report, in all material aspects, (i) the ownership structures of our company, our PRC subsidiaries and our PRC operating companies are in compliance with existing PRC laws and regulations, (ii) the contractual arrangements between our PRC subsidiaries, on the one hand, and Shanghai Shulong and/or its shareholders, on the other hand, are valid, binding and enforceable, and will not result in any violation of PRC laws or regulations currently in effect and (iii) the business operations of our company, our PRC subsidiaries, and our PRC operating companies, as described in this annual report, are in compliance with existing PRC laws and regulations. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not ultimately take a view contrary to that of Jade & Fountain PRC Lawyers. If we, our PRC subsidiaries, or any of our PRC operating companies are found to have violated any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • revoking our PRC operating companies’ business and operating licenses; • discontinuing or restricting our PRC operating companies’ operations; • imposing conditions or requirements with which we or our PRC companies may not be able to comply; 21 Table of Contents • requiring us or our PRC companies to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; or • taking other regulatory or enforcement actions, including levying fines, that could be harmful to our business. Any of these actions could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer and the market price of our ADSs to decline. The contractual arrangements related to critical aspects of our operations with Shanghai Shulong and its shareholders may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership. We rely on contractual arrangements with Shanghai Shulong and its shareholders to operate our business. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing us with control over Shanghai Shulong and its subsidiaries which constitute all of our PRC operating companies. Direct ownership would allow us, for example, to directly or indirectly exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in the boards of directors of Shanghai Shulong, which, in turn, could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level. However, under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if Shanghai Shulong or its shareholders fails to perform its, his or her respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend significant resources to enforce those arrangements and rely on legal remedies under PRC law. These remedies may include seeking specific performance or injunctive relief and claiming damages, any of which may not be effective. Under an equity pledge agreement, the shareholders of Shanghai Shulong have pledged their equity interests in Shanghai Shulong to Shengqu. According to the PRC Property Rights Law, which became effective on October 1, 2007, a pledge is created only when such pledge is registered with the relevant office of the administration for industry and commerce. We have registered the equity pledge by the shareholders of Shanghai Shulong with the relevant office of the administration for industry and commerce. However, all of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC laws and provide for the resolution of disputes through either arbitration or litigation in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC laws and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may be unable to exert effective control over our PRC operating companies, and our ability to conduct our business may be materially and adversely affected. Shareholders of Shanghai Shulong may potentially have a conflict of interest with us, and they may breach their contracts with us or cause such contracts to be amended in a manner contrary to the interest of our company. We conduct substantially all of our operations, and generate substantially all of our revenues, through our PRC operating companies. Our control over these entities is based upon contractual arrangements with Shanghai Shulong and its shareholders that provide us with the substantial ability to control Shanghai Shulong and its subsidiaries which constitute our PRC operating companies. These shareholders are employees of Shanda Interactive, our parent, and may potentially have a conflict of interest with us, and they may breach their contracts with us or cause such contracts to be amended in a manner contrary to the interest of our company, if they believe such action furthers their own interest or that of our parent, Shanda Interactive, or if they otherwise act in bad faith. They are not our directors, principal shareholders or employees. Therefore, they do not owe any fiduciary duty to us and may take actions that adversely affect us. If the shareholders of Shanghai Shulong breach their contracts with us or otherwise have disputes with us, we may have to initiate legal proceedings, which involve significant uncertainty. Such disputes and proceedings may significantly disrupt our business operations, adversely affect our ability to control our PRC operating companies and otherwise result in negative publicity, and we cannot assure you that the outcome of such disputes and proceedings will be in our favor. Our arrangements with our PRC operating companies may be reviewed by the PRC tax authorities for transfer pricing adjustments. We could face material adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements between our PRC subsidiaries and Shanghai Shulong were not entered into based on arm’s length negotiations. Although we based our contractual arrangements on those of similar businesses, if the PRC tax authorities determine that these contracts were not entered into on an arm’s length basis, they may adjust our income and expenses for PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could adversely affect us by increasing our PRC operating companies’ tax liabilities without reducing our PRC subsidiaries’ tax liabilities, which could further result in late payment fees and other penalties to our PRC operating companies for under-paid taxes. As a result, any transfer pricing adjustment could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Our holding company structure may restrict our ability to receive dividends from, or transfer funds to, our PRC subsidiaries and our PRC operating companies, which could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and reallocate funds among our Chinese entities timely. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and conduct substantially all of our operations through our PRC operating companies. We may rely on dividends and other distributions on equity by our PRC subsidiaries for our cash requirements, including the funds to pay dividends on the Class A ordinary shares underlying our ADSs and to service any debt we may incur or financing we may need for our operations. If any of our PRC subsidiaries incurs its own debt in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict such PRC subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to Shanda Games (HK) and to us. Furthermore, under PRC laws and regulations, each PRC subsidiary is only permitted to pay dividends out of its retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC law, each PRC subsidiary is also required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves until the cumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends, loans or advances. Each PRC subsidiary may also allocate a portion of its after-tax profits, as determined by its board of directors, to its staff welfare and bonus funds, which may not be distributed to us. As a result of these and other restrictions under PRC laws and regulations, each PRC subsidiary is restricted from transferring a portion of its assets to us as dividends, loans or advances, which restricted portion amounted to approximately RMB602.8 million (US$88.3 million), or 21.4% of our total consolidated net assets as of December 31, 2009. Any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us as dividends, loans or advances could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could benefit our businesses, pay debt or dividends, and otherwise fund and conduct our business. In addition, any funds we transfer to our PRC subsidiaries, either as a shareholder loan or as an increase in registered capital, is subject to registration or approval of PRC governmental authorities, including the relevant administration of foreign exchange and/or the relevant examining and approval authority. Our PRC companies are prohibited by PRC law to directly lend money to each other. Therefore, it is difficult to change our capital expenditure plans once the relevant funds have been remitted from our company to our PRC subsidiaries. These limitations on the free flow of funds between us and our PRC companies could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and reallocate funds among our PRC companies on a timely basis. Moreover, according to a circular jointly issued by the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation on September 19, 2008, the debt-to-equity ratio of a non-financial institution may not exceed 2:1 unless the shareholder loan in question can meet certain conditions. Although there is uncertainty at this time as to how the circular will be interpreted and implemented, such circular may have a negative impact on our PRC subsidiaries’ abilities to obtain loans from its shareholders. We are one of China’s leading online game providers and cooperate closely with Shanda Online, which through its VIEs operates a leading online service platform in China. Some of our competitors and our users may institute claims against us and Shanda Online under the new Anti-Monopoly Law and as a result we may have to terminate our relationship with Shanda Online, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. The new Anti-Monopoly Law, or the AML, was approved by the National People’s Congress on August 30, 2007, which became effective date on August 1, 2008. While certain aspects of the AML are unclear and are subject to subsequent interpretation by the State Council and the Anti-Monopoly Commission and the Anti-Monopoly Enforcement Agency, the AML prohibits certain conduct, referred to as “monopolistic acts”, which include “monopoly agreements”, abuse of a dominant market position, and certain “concentrations”, which result or could result in the elimination or restriction of competition. The law also requires the State Council to establish an Anti-Monopoly Commission with authority to make competition policy, publish guidelines, coordinate anti-monopoly enforcement work and conduct investigations and impose penalties on “business operators” that commit certain monopolistic acts within or outside of China that have the effect of eliminating or restricting competition in the China market. It remains to be seen how the AML will be implemented in practice and what effects it will have on us and other companies in China. Given our leading position in the online game industry in China and our close cooperation with Shanda Online, which through its VIEs, operates a leading online service platform in China, some of our competitors and our users may institute claims against us and Shanda Online under the AML and as a result, we may have to terminate our relationship with Shanda Online if such claims are determined adversely to us or Shanda Online, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operation. The laws and regulations governing the online game industry and related businesses in China are developing and subject to future changes. If we or any of our PRC operating companies fail to obtain or maintain all applicable permits and approvals, our business and operations would be materially and adversely affected. The Internet industry, including the operation of online games, in China is highly regulated by the PRC government. Various regulatory authorities of the central PRC government, such as the State Council, the MIIT, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or the SAIC, the Ministry of Culture, or the MOC, the General Administration of Press and Publication, or the GAPP, the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, and the Ministry of Public Security, are empowered to promulgate and implement regulations governing various aspects of the Internet and the online game industry. 23 Table of Contents Our PRC operating companies are required to obtain applicable permits or approvals from different regulatory authorities in order to provide their services. For example, an Internet content provider, or ICP, must obtain a value- added telecommunications business operation license, or ICP license, from the MIIT or its local offices in order to engage in any commercial ICP operations within China. An online game operator must also obtain an Internet culture operation license from the MOC, an Internet publishing license from the GAPP in order to distribute games through the Internet and approval from the MIIT to provide online bulletin board services. Shanghai Shulong currently holds an inter-regional ICP license as well as an Internet culture operation license. Chengdu Aurora currently holds a regional ICP license as well as an Internet culture operation license. Shanghai Shulong currently does not hold an Internet publishing license and publishes its online games through cooperation with Shanda Networking, which holds such a license. In addition, users of our online games use online bulletin board services provided by Shanda Networking, which is in the process of renewing its license to provide online bullet board services. If any of our PRC operating companies fails to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals or if our practice is later challenged by government authorities, they may also be subject to various penalties, including fines and the discontinuation of or restriction on our operations. Any such disruption in business operations would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As the online game industry is at an early stage of development in China, new laws and regulations may be adopted in the future to address new issues that arise from time to time, such as online advertising. Also, different regulatory authorities may have different views regarding the licensing requirements for the operation of online games and related businesses. As a result, substantial uncertainties exist regarding the interpretation and implementation of current and any future PRC laws and regulations applicable to the online game industry and related businesses. While we believe that we comply in all material respects with all applicable PRC laws and regulations currently in effect, we cannot assure you that we will not be found in violation of any current or future PRC laws and regulations. Additional government regulations resulting from negative publicity in China regarding online games or otherwise may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The media in China has reported incidents of violent crimes allegedly provoked by, or committed in connection with, online games. In addition, there have been widespread negative media reports that focus on how online games are addictive and how excessive game playing could distract students and interfere with their education. Certain non-governmental organizations may also organize protests or publicity campaigns against online game companies in order to protect youth from the risk of becoming addicted to certain online games. The PRC government may decide to adopt more stringent policies to monitor the online game industry as a result of adverse public reaction to perceived addiction to such games, particularly by minors. In 2007, eight PRC government authorities, including the GAPP, the Ministry of Education and the MIIT, jointly issued a notice requiring all Chinese online game operators to adopt an “anti-fatigue compliance system” in an effort to curb addiction to online games by minors. Under the anti-fatigue compliance system, three hours or less of continuous play is defined to be “healthy”, three to five hours is defined to be “fatiguing”, and five hours or more is defined to be “unhealthy.” Game operators are required to reduce the value of game benefits for minor game players by half when those game players reach the “fatigue” level, and to zero when they reach the “unhealthy” level. In addition, online game players in China are now required to register their identity card numbers before they can play an online game. This system allows game operators to identify which game players are minors. It is unclear whether these restrictions would be expanded to apply to adult game players in the future. More stringent government regulations, including stricter anti-fatigue rules, could discourage game players from playing our games, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the State Administration of Taxation recently announced that it will tax game players on the income derived from the trading of virtual currencies at the rate of 20.0%. However, it is currently unclear how the tax will be collected or if there will be any effect on our game players or our business. Furthermore, similar adverse public reaction may arise, and similar government policies may be adopted, in other jurisdictions where we license out our online games, which could materially and adversely affect our overseas licensing revenues. The PRC government has tightened its regulation of Internet cafes, which are currently one of the primary venues for our users to play online games. Intensified government regulation of Internet cafes could restrict our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and expand our game player base. Internet cafes are one of the primary places where our games are played. In March 2001, the PRC government began tightening its regulation and supervision of Internet cafes. In particular, a large number of unlicensed Internet cafes have been closed. The PRC government has also imposed higher capital and facility requirements for the establishment of Internet cafes. Furthermore, the PRC government’s policy, which encourages the development of a limited number of national and regional Internet cafe chains and discourages the establishment of independent Internet cafes, may slow down the growth of Internet cafes. In February 2004, the government agencies in charge of Internet cafe licensing jointly issued a notice suspending the issuance of new Internet cafe licenses for a period of six months. In February 2007, 14 PRC government departments jointly issued a circular to strengthen the regulation of Internet cafes and online games. According to the circular, local authorities were banned from issuing new Internet cafe licenses for the remainder of 2007. Since this ban was imposed in 2007, to our knowledge, local authorities have not issued new Internet cafe licenses and it is unclear when local authorities will start issuing new licenses again. In March 2010, the MOC issued a circular to increase the punishment on Internet cafes which allow minors to enter and use Internet in their cafes. According to this circular, among other things, the authorities may revoke an Internet cafe’s Internet culture operation license if that Internet cafe allows three or more minors to enter and use Internet at one time. Governmental authorities may from time to time impose stricter requirements, such as the customers’ age limit and hours of operation, among others, as a result of the occurrence and perception of, and the media attention on, gang fights, arson and other incidents in or related to Internet cafes. Since a substantial portion of our users play our games in Internet cafes, any reduction in the number, or slowdown in the growth, of Internet cafes in China, or any new regulatory restrictions on their operations, could limit our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and expand our game player base, thereby adversely affecting our business and results of operations, as well as growth prospects. 24 Table of Contents The PRC government may prevent us from distributing, and we may be subject to liability for, content deemed to be inappropriate. China has enacted laws and regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news, information or other content, as well as products and services, through the Internet. In the past, the PRC government has stopped the distribution of information through the Internet that it believes violates PRC law. The MIIT, the GAPP and the MOC have promulgated regulations that prohibit games from being distributed through the Internet if the games contain content that is found to, among other things, propagate obscenity, gambling or violence, instigate crimes, undermine public morality or the cultural traditions of China, or compromise state security or secrets. In addition, certain PRC social organizations have recently discussed the possibility of implementing a rating system for online games. The effect that such a system could have on our business is unclear. If any games we offer were deemed to violate any such content restrictions, we would not be able to obtain the necessary governmental approval, may not be able to continue such offerings and/or could be subject to penalties, including confiscation of income, fines, suspension of business and revocation of our license for operating online games, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be subject to potential liability for unlawful actions of our users or for content we distribute that is deemed inappropriate. Furthermore, we may be required to delete content that violates PRC law and report content that we suspect may violate PRC law. It may be difficult to determine the type of content that may result in liability for us, and if we are wrong, we may be prevented from operating our games or offering other services in China. The PRC government controls virtually all Internet access in China, and requires all computers sold in China to be installed with government-designated software to censor websites deemed inappropriate by the government, which may potentially discourage or restrict the use of the Internet or our online games by the players, and consequently adversely impact our business, financial conditions and results of operation. The PRC government controls virtually all Internet access in China and may occasionally block Internet access throughout the country or in certain regions due to political concerns, in particular in response to, or out of concerns with respect to, special incidents or significant events, thereby preventing people in China, including our game players, from accessing the Internet and playing our online games. On May 19, 2009, the MIIT issued a circular regarding the Pre-installment of Green Dam Web Filter Software on Computers. According to this circular, commencing on July 1, 2009, all computers sold in China are required to be installed with a government-designated software, called Green Dam — Youth Escort, to block “unhealthy words or pictures.” However, according to media reports, such software may compromise the security of personal information. Given the controversy generated by this circular, the MIIT announced on June 30, 2009 that it would extend the deadline for the implementation of the circular. According to recent media reports, the minister of the MIIT further stated on August 13, 2009 that the Chinese government will not require all computers sold in China to be installed with the filter software but that computers used in schools, Internet cafes and other public places will be required to be installed with the filter software in order to prevent young people from being harmed by unhealthy online content. It is currently unclear to what extent this circular would be implemented. Although this circular is not intended to block access to online games, if any content of our online games is found by the filter software to contain “unhealthy words or pictures”, our website may be blocked by the software, and as a result users who play our games will not be able to access our online games, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operation. We may be required to reapply for approvals for online games licensed from overseas licensors. The MOC issued a Circular Concerning the Examination and Declaration of Imported Online Game Products on April 24, 2009. Imported online games refers to online games that are licensed from licensors outside of China. According to this circular, in the event of a change of the operator of an imported online game, the game’s existing import approval will be automatically revoked and the new operator must apply to the MOC for a new approval for the same game. As this circular is newly issued, it remains unclear how and to what extent this circular will be implemented or enforced. On September 28, 2009, the GAPP, together with two other government authorities, issued a circular (Xin Chu Lian [2009] No. 13) which contains a similar provision to the MOC circular mentioned above. The GAPP circular also requires that, in the event of a change of the operator of an imported online game, the new operator must apply to the GAPP for a new approval for the same game, and the operation of the online game should be suspended until the GAPP approves the change in operator. 25 Table of Contents We currently operate substantially all of our imported online games under import approvals granted by the GAPP and the MOC to Shanda Networking. Under the above referenced circulars, we are required to reapply to the GAPP and the MOC for approvals for our imported online games. We are committed to complying with the requirements of these circulars. However, we cannot assure you that we will succeed in obtaining all the approvals as required by these circulars in time or at all. If we fail to comply with the requirements of this circular or fail to obtain all the approvals for our imported online games, we may be subject to fines, revocation of the relevant operating licenses, the discontinuation or restrictions on our operations or other sanctions. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Currently there is no law or regulation specifically governing virtual asset property rights and therefore, it is not clear what liabilities, if any, online game operators may have for virtual assets. In the course of playing online games, some virtual assets, such as special equipment, player experience grades and other features of our users’ game characters, are acquired and accumulated. Such virtual assets can be important to online game players and have monetary value and in some cases are sold among players for actual money. In practice, virtual assets can be lost for various reasons, often through unauthorized use of the game account of one user by other users and occasionally through data loss caused by a delay of network service, a network crash or hacking activities. Currently, there is no PRC law or regulation specifically governing virtual asset property rights. As a result, there is uncertainty as to who is the legal owner of virtual assets, whether and how the ownership of virtual assets is protected by law, and whether an operator of online games such as us would have any liability to game players or other interested parties (whether in contract, tort or otherwise) for loss of such virtual assets. In case of a loss of virtual assets, we may be sued by our game players and held liable for damages, which may negatively affect our reputation and business, financial condition and results of operation. We have been involved in a limited number of virtual assets-related lawsuits, most of which have been settled. Based on several judgments by PRC courts regarding the liabilities of online game operators for loss of virtual assets by game players, the courts have generally required the online game operators to return the virtual items or be liable for the loss and damage incurred therefrom. Compliance with the laws or regulations governing virtual currency may result in us having to obtain additional approvals or licenses or change our current business model. The issuance and use of “virtual currency” in the PRC is regulated by recently adopted regulations. In January 2007, the Ministry of Public Security, the MOC, the MIIT and the GAPP jointly issued a circular regarding online gambling which has implications for the use of virtual currency. To curtail online games that involve online gambling, as well as address concerns that virtual currency could be used for money laundering or illicit trade, the circular (i) prohibits online game operators from charging commissions in the form of virtual currency in relation to winning or losing of games; (ii) requires online game operators to impose limits on use of virtual currency in guessing and betting games; (iii) bans the conversion of virtual currency into real currency or property; and (iv) prohibits services that enable game players to transfer virtual currency to other players. In February 2007, 14 PRC regulatory authorities jointly promulgated a circular to further strengthen the oversight of Internet cafes and online games. Under the circular, the People’s Bank of China, or the PBOC, has authority to regulate virtual currency, including: (i) setting limits on the aggregate amount of virtual currency that can be issued by online game operators and the amount of virtual currency that can be purchased by an individual; (ii) stipulating that virtual currency issued by online game operators can only be used for purchasing virtual products and services within the online games and not for purchasing tangible or physical products; (iii) requiring that the price for redemption of virtual currency shall not exceed the respective original purchase price; and (iv) banning the trading of virtual currency. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and implementation of these two circulars, and we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not take a view contrary to ours. If the PRC regulatory authorities deem our online operations to violate either circular, the PBOC may confiscate the revenues generated through such activities and/or impose fines and other penalties under the law of the PBOC as well as other laws and regulations of the PRC. On June 4, 2009, the MOC and the Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM, jointly issued a notice regarding strengthening the administration of online game virtual currency, or the Virtual Currency Notice. The notice requires businesses that (i) issue online game virtual currency (in the form of prepaid cards or pre-payment or prepaid card points) or (ii) offer online game virtual currency transaction services to apply for approval from the MOC within three months following the date of the notice. The notice also prohibits businesses that issue online game virtual currency from providing services that would enable the trading of such virtual currency. 26 Table of Contents We issue online game virtual currency to game players for them to purchase various virtual items or time units to be used in our online games. We intend to comply with the Virtual Currency Notice. Shanghai Shulong and Chengdu Aurora have obtained approval from the MOC to issue online game virtual currency, as required under the Virtual Currency Notice. However, we cannot assure you that all of our PRC operating companies will be able to obtain the approval in a timely manner or at all. If we are not able to obtain the approval, we may be prohibited from issuing virtual currency and thus may have to change our business model. We are in the process of adjusting the content of our online games, as well as the form of payment settlement between Shanda Online and us, but we cannot assure you that our adjustments will be sufficient to comply with the Virtual Currency Notice. Moreover, although we believe we do not offer online game virtual currency transaction services, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not take a view contrary to ours. For example, certain virtual items we issue (such as coupons) are transferable and exchangeable in the games. If the PRC regulatory authorities deem such transfer or exchange to be a virtual currency transaction, aside from being engaged in the issuance of virtual currency, we may also be deemed to be providing transaction platform services that enable the trading of such virtual currency. Simultaneously engaging in both of these activities is prohibited under the Virtual Currency Notice. In that event, we may be required to cease either our virtual currency issuance activities or such deemed “transaction service” activities and may be subject to certain penalties, including but not limited to mandatory corrective measures and fines. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, the Virtual Currency Notice also prohibits online game operators from setting game features that involve the direct payment of cash or virtual currency by players for the chance to win virtual items or virtual currency based on random selection through a lucky draw, wager or lottery. The notice also prohibits game operators from issuing currency to game players through means other than purchases with legal currency. It is unclear whether these restrictions would apply to certain aspects of our online games. For example, certain of our games contain features known as “treasure boxes.” Players may use “yuanbao”, a type of virtual item they obtain in the games, to acquire keys to open treasure boxes that, if opened, award the player with rewards, such as game points or virtual items. As no cash or virtual currency is directly paid by the players in opening treasure boxes, we believe this feature is distinct from those prohibited by the Virtual Currency Notice. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not take a view contrary to ours and deem such feature as prohibited by the Virtual Currency Notice, thereby subjecting us to penalties, including mandatory corrective measures and fines. In addition, since we believe many of our game players find treasure boxes to be an enjoyable feature of our games, if we are required to eliminate this from our games, our games could be less attractive to players. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may be subject to, and may expend significant resources in defending against, government actions and civil suits based on the advertising content provided in our virtual advertising space; we may also be penalized by the governmental authority for such content. Shanghai Shengyue Advertisement Co., Ltd., or Shengyue, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Shanda Interactive, acts as our advertising agent to sell the virtual advertising space in our online games to third-party advertisers. Civil claims may be filed against Shengyue or us for fraud, defamation, subversion, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other violations due to the nature and content of the information displayed in the virtual advertising space in our games. Offensive and objectionable content and legal standards for defamation and fraud in China are less defined than in other more developed countries and we may not be able to properly screen out unlawful content. If such activities result in damages to any third party or violates any other regulation related to advertising business, PRC governmental authority may penalize us by revoking our game license, imposing fines, suspending our business license or imposing criminal liability on us, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to the People’s Republic of China Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Most of our business operations are conducted in China and most of our revenues are generated in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, the level of development, the growth rate, the control of foreign exchange, and the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past 30 years, the growth has been uneven geographically among various sectors of the economy, and during different periods. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. While some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us if the measures reduce the consumable income of our game players. 27 Table of Contents The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing general economic and business matters. The overall effect of legislation since 1979 has been a significant enhancement of the protections afforded to various forms of foreign-invested enterprises in China. Each of our PRC subsidiaries is a wholly foreign owned enterprise, or WFOE, which is an enterprise incorporated in China and wholly owned by foreign investors. Our PRC subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China in general and laws and regulations applicable to WFOEs in particular. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are constantly changing and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the Internet, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. Furthermore, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may subject us to fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government, including restrictions on our PRC subsidiaries’ abilities to pay dividends or make distributions to us and our ability to increase our investment in our PRC subsidiaries. In October 2005, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, promulgated the Circular on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents’ Corporate Financing and Roundtrip Investment Through Offshore Special Purpose Vehicles, or Circular 75, which states that if PRC residents use assets or equity interests in their PRC entities as capital contributions to establish offshore companies or inject assets or equity interests of their PRC entities into offshore companies to raise capital overseas, they must register with local SAFE branches with respect to their overseas investments in offshore companies. They must also file amendments to their registrations if their offshore companies experience material events involving capital variation, such as changes in share capital, share transfers, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions, long-term equity or debt investments or uses of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. Under this regulation, their failure to comply with the registration procedures set forth in such regulation may result in fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government, including restrictions being imposed on the foreign exchange activities of the relevant PRC entity, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent, as well as restrictions on the capital inflow from the offshore entity to the PRC entity. We are committed to complying with and to ensuring that our shareholders who are subject to the regulations will comply with the relevant rules. However, we cannot assure you that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or comply with other requirements required by Circular 75 or other related rules. Any future failure by any of our shareholders who is a PRC resident, or controlled by a PRC resident, to comply with relevant requirements under this regulation could subject us to fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government, including restrictions on our PRC subsidiaries’ abilities to pay dividends or make distributions to us and our ability to increase our investment in our PRC subsidiaries. SAFE rules and regulations may limit our ability to convert and transfer the net proceeds from our initial public offering to Shanghai Shulong, our VIE in the PRC, which may adversely affect the business expansion of Shanghai Shulong, and we may not be able to convert the net proceeds from our initial public offering into Renminbi to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies or establish other VIEs in the PRC. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. The notice requires that the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in Renminbi converted from foreign currencies may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in Renminbi converted from foreign currencies. The use of such Renminbi capital may not be changed without SAFE’s approval, and may not in any case be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Violations of Circular 142 will result in severe penalties, such as heavy fines. As a result, Circular 142 may significantly limit our ability to transfer the net proceeds from our initial public offering to Shanghai Shulong through our subsidiary in the PRC, which may adversely affect the business expansion of Shanghai Shulong, and we may not be able to convert the net proceeds from our initial public offering into Renminbi to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies, or establish other VIEs in the PRC. 28 Table of Contents Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our capital effectively. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. The Renminbi is currently freely convertible under the “current account”, which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account”, which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, our PRC subsidiaries may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions”, including payment of dividends to Shanda Games (HK) and payment of license fees to international game licensors, and our PRC operating companies may purchase foreign exchange for payment of license fees to international game licensors without the approval of the SAFE. Our PRC subsidiaries may also retain foreign exchange in its current account, subject to a ceiling approved by the SAFE, to satisfy foreign exchange liabilities or to pay dividends. However, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC governmental authorities will not limit or eliminate our PRC subsidiaries’ abilities to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenues will be denominated in Renminbi, the existing and any future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize capital generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside of China, if any, or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account are subject to limitations and require registration with or approval by the relevant PRC governmental authorities. In particular, if we finance our PRC subsidiaries by foreign currency loans, those loans cannot exceed certain statutory limits and must be registered with the SAFE, and if we finance our PRC subsidiaries by capital contributions using, for instance, proceeds from our initial public offering, those capital contributions must be approved by the MOFCOM. In addition, because of the regulatory issues related to foreign currency loans to, and foreign investment in, domestic PRC enterprises, we may not be able to finance our PRC operating companies’ operations by loans or capital contributions. We cannot assure you that we can obtain these governmental registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all. These limitations could affect the ability of these entities to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, and could adversely affect our business and financial conditions. Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. Substantially all of our revenues are denominated in Renminbi, while a portion of our expenditures are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly those involving the U.S. dollar, may affect our costs and operating margins. Where our operations conducted in Renminbi are reported in U.S. dollars, such fluctuations could result in changes in reported results which do not reflect changes in the underlying operations. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an approximately 21% appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and December 31, 2009. Provisions on Administration of Foreign Exchange, as amended in August 2008, further changed China’s exchange regime to a managed floating exchange rate regime based on market supply and demand. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. As substantially all of our revenues are denominated in Renminbi, any potential future devaluation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our results of operations. The fluctuation of foreign exchange rate affects the value of these monetary assets and liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. Generally, an appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar results in a foreign exchange loss for monetary assets denominated in U.S. dollars, and a foreign exchange gain for monetary liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. On the contrary, a devaluation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar results in a foreign exchange gain for monetary assets denominated in U.S. dollars and a foreign exchange loss for monetary liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. With very limited hedging transactions available in China, we have not entered into any hedging transactions to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge all or part of our exposure or at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into U.S. dollars. Conversely, an increase in the value of the Renminbi could increase our reported earnings in U.S. dollar terms without a fundamental change in our business or operating performance. Since our revenues are primarily denominated in Renminbi, our valuation could be materially and adversely affected by the devaluation of the Renminbi if U.S. investors analyze our value based on the U.S. dollar equivalent of our financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents The discontinuation, reduction or delay of any of the preferential tax treatments or the government financial incentives currently available to us in the PRC could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Prior to January 1, 2008, under the then-current enterprises income tax law, or the Old EIT Law, our PRC companies were subject to a 33.0% income tax rate, which was subject to certain tax holidays and preferential tax rates. Under the new enterprise income tax law effective January 1, 2008, or the New EIT Law, both foreign-invested enterprises and domestic enterprises are subject to a unified 25% income tax rate. Under the New EIT Law, preferential tax treatments will be granted to enterprises that conduct business in certain encouraged sectors and to enterprises that qualify as “high and new technology enterprises”, a status reassessed every three years. In addition, an enterprise is entitled to a 10.0% income tax rate for the year in which it is recognized as a “national key software enterprise”, a status reassessed every year. Shengqu, Shanghai Shulong and Chengdu Aurora were recognized as high and new technology enterprises in 2008 and are entitled to a 15.0% preferential income tax rate for the three-year period ending December 31, 2010. In addition, Shengqu was recognized as a national key software enterprise and was entitled to a 10.0% income tax rate for 2008 and 2009. However, we cannot assure you that Shengqu, Shanghai Shulong and Chengdu Aurora will be able to maintain their status as “high and new technology enterprises” and/or as a “national key software enterprise.” If any of our PRC companies that qualified as a “high and new technology enterprise” or “national key software enterprise” fails to continue to qualify, our income tax expenses would increase, which would have a material adverse effect on our net income and results of operations. For additional details on the preferential tax status, see Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Taxation — PRC Enterprise Income Tax.” Furthermore, pursuant to the New EIT Law, certain enterprises established prior to March 16, 2007 that are entitled to the lower tax rates in accordance with the then prevailing tax laws and regulations shall be eligible for a five-year transition period beginning from January 1, 2008. On December 26, 2007, the State Council issued a notice on the implementation of the grandfathering preferential policies under the New EIT Law, under which it is uncertain whether the transitional tax rates would apply to the companies that enjoyed preferential tax rates of 15.0% under a local preferential tax policy. If our PRC companies cannot enjoy the grandfathering treatment, our income tax expenses would increase, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, our PRC companies received financial incentives from the government in the aggregate amount of RMB54.3 million, RMB18.4 million and RMB177.0 million (US$25.9 million), respectively, which were calculated with reference to taxable revenues and taxable income. To be eligible for the government financial incentives, we are required to continue to meet a number of financial and non-financial criteria and, even if we meet these criteria, the grant of any incentive is still subject to the discretion of the municipal government. Moreover, the central government or municipal government could determine at any time to eliminate or reduce these government financial incentives. Since the government has discretion in the timing of payment and the amount of the financial incentive, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to enjoy these government financial incentives or receive such incentives promptly. The discontinuation, reduction or delay of these government financial incentives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There are significant uncertainties under the New EIT Law relating to our PRC enterprise income tax liabilities. Under the New EIT Law, the profits of a foreign invested enterprise arising in 2008 and onwards which are distributed to its immediate holding company outside the PRC will be subject to a withholding tax rate of 10.0%. Pursuant to a special arrangement between Hong Kong and the PRC, such rate is lowered to 5.0% if a Hong Kong resident enterprise owns over 25% of the PRC company. However, according to a tax circular issued by the State Administration of Taxation in February 2009, if the main purpose of an offshore arrangement is to obtain a preferential tax treatment, the PRC tax authorities have the discretion to adjust the preferential tax rate enjoyed by the relevant offshore entity. In addition, under the New EIT Law, enterprises established under the laws of jurisdictions outside China with their “de facto management bodies” located within China may be considered to be PRC tax resident enterprises for tax purposes. Although we are a Cayman Islands company and Shanda Games (HK) owns 100% of the equity interests of all of our PRC subsidiaries, the PRC tax authorities may regard the main purpose of Shanda Games (HK) as obtaining a lower withholding tax rate of 5.0%. As a result, the PRC tax authorities could levy a higher withholding tax rate to dividends received by Shanda Games (HK) from our PRC subsidiaries. In addition, a substantial majority of the members of our management team, as well as the management team of Shanda Games (HK), are located in China. Under current PRC laws and regulations, it is also uncertain whether Shanda Games (HK) and we would be deemed to be PRC tax resident enterprises under the New EIT Law. If we or Shanda Games (HK) is deemed to be a PRC tax resident enterprise, our global income will be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25.0%, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks of contagious diseases, including avian flu, SARS and H1N1 flu, and natural disasters. Our business could be adversely affected by avian flu, SARS, H1N1 flu, also known as swine flu, or other epidemics or outbreaks. There have been recent reports of outbreaks of a highly pathogenic avian flu caused by the H5N1 virus, in certain regions of Asia and Europe. In 2005 and 2006, there were reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, 30 Table of Contents including a few confirmed human cases. Since April 2009, there have been reports on the occurrences of H1N1 flu in Mexico, the United States, China and certain other countries and regions around the world. An outbreak of avian flu or H1N1 flu in the human population could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, particularly in Asia. Additionally, any recurrence of SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, similar to the occurrence in 2003 that affected China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Vietnam and certain other countries and regions, would also have similar adverse effects. Our business could also be adversely affected by natural disasters. On May 12, 2008, China experienced an earthquake with a reported magnitude of 8.0 on the Richter scale in Sichuan Province, resulting in the death of tens of thousands of people. As a result of the earthquake, we observed a three-day period of national mourning for the victims, during which period we suspended our online games, in accordance with a public notice issued by the PRC government. Similarly, we observed a similar one-day period of national mourning for the victims of the earthquake with a reported magnitude of 6.9 on the Richter scale in Qinghai Province on April 14, 2010. These natural disasters, outbreaks of contagious diseases, and other adverse public health developments in China could severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future natural disasters or outbreaks of avian flu, H1N1 flu, SARS or any other epidemic. We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions if we or our Chinese employees fail to comply with recent PRC regulations relating to employee stock options granted by overseas listed companies to PRC citizens. On December 25, 2006, the PBOC issued the Administration Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange Control, and its Implementation Rules were issued by the SAFE on January 5, 2007. Both took effect on February 1, 2007. Under these regulations, all foreign exchange matters involved in an employee stock holding plan, stock option plan or similar plan in which a PRC citizens participate, requires approval from the SAFE or its authorized branch. On March 28, 2007, the SAFE issued the Application Procedure for Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plans or Stock Option Plans of Overseas Listed Companies, or Notice 78. Under Notice 78, PRC individuals who participate in an employee stock option holding plan or a stock option plan of an overseas listed company are required, through a PRC domestic agent or PRC subsidiary of the overseas listed company, to register with the SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our Chinese employees who have been granted restricted shares or stock options pursuant to our share incentive plan are subject to Notice 78. However, in practice, there are significant uncertainties with regard to the interpretation and implementation of Notice 78. We are committed to complying with the requirements of Notice 78. However, we cannot provide any assurance that we or our Chinese employees will be able to qualify for or obtain any registration required by Notice 78. In particular, if we and/or our Chinese employees fail to comply with the provisions of Notice 78, we and/or our Chinese employees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions imposed by the SAFE or other PRC government authorities, as a result of which our business operations and employee option plans could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our ADSs The price of our ADSs has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile, which may make it difficult for holders to resell the ADSs when desired or at attractive prices. The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Since we completed our initial public offering on September 30, 2009, the closing price of our ADSs on the NASDAQ Global Select Market has ranged from US$6.41 to US$11.70 per ADS and the last reported closing price on April 28, 2010 was US$6.98. Our ADS price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including among other factors: • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; • announcements regarding intellectual property rights litigation; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of our products; • addition or departure of our executive officers and key research personnel; and • sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. For example, we introduced an expansion pack in Mir II which was not well received by the game’s users and led to some of the game’s users reducing the amount of virtual items they purchase in the game. Primarily as a result of the introduction of that expansion pack, on March 1, 2010, we announced that we expected our net revenues in the first quarter of 2010 to decrease by 10-15% quarter-over-quarter. On that day, the market price of our ADSs decreased by approximately 18%, and on the following night, further decreased by approximately 6%. In addition, the financial markets in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our ADSs, regardless of our operating performance. 31 Table of Contents We may need additional capital and may sell additional ADSs or other equity securities or incur indebtedness, which could result in additional dilution to our shareholders or increase our debt service obligations. We may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We may be required to withhold PRC income tax on the dividends we pay you (if any), and any gain you realize on the transfer of our ordinary shares and/or ADSs may also be subject to PRC withholding tax. Pursuant to the New EIT Law, we may be treated as a PRC resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes. See “— Risks Relating to the People’s Republic of China — There are significant uncertainties under the New EIT Law relating to our PRC enterprise income tax liabilities.” If we are so treated by the PRC tax authorities, we would be obligated to withhold PRC income tax on payments of dividends on our shares and/or ADSs to investors that are non-resident enterprises of the PRC because the dividends payable on our ordinary shares and/or ADSs would be regarded as being derived from sources within the PRC. The withholding tax rate depends on the provisions of the bilateral tax treaty, if any, between the PRC and the jurisdiction where the non-resident enterprise is incorporated. For example, for non-resident enterprises located in Hong Kong which own more than 25% of the shares or equity interest in a PRC company, the rate would be 5%, and for non-resident enterprises located in the United States, the rate would be 10%. If the jurisdiction where the non-resident enterprise is incorporated does not have a bilateral tax treaty with the PRC, such as the Cayman Islands, a uniform rate of 10% will apply. In addition, any gain realized by any investors who are non-resident enterprises of the PRC from the transfer of our ordinary shares and/or ADSs could be regarded as being derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to a 10.0% PRC withholding tax. Moreover, under the PRC Individual Income Tax Law, or IITL, non-resident individual investors are required to pay PRC individual income tax on interests or dividends payable to such investors or any capital gains realized from the transfer of our ordinary shares and/or ADSs if such gains are deemed income derived from sources within the PRC. A non-resident individual refers to an individual who has no domicile in the PRC and does not stay within the PRC or who has no domicile in the PRC and has stayed within the PRC for less than one year. Pursuant to the IITL and its implementation rules, for purposes of the PRC capital gains tax, the taxable income will be based on the total income obtained from the transfer of our ordinary shares and/or ADSs minus all the costs and expenses that are permitted under PRC tax laws to be deducted from the income. Therefore, if we are considered a PRC resident enterprise and dividends we pay with respect to our ordinary shares and/or ADSs and the gains realized from the transfer of our ordinary shares and/or ADSs are considered income derived from sources within the PRC by relevant PRC tax authorities, such gains earned by non-resident individuals may also be subject to PRC withholding tax. The foregoing PRC withholding tax would reduce your investment return on our ordinary shares and/or ADSs and may also materially and adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares and/or ADSs. Your right as a holder of ADSs to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and they may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to such holders. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to our ADS holders in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. In addition, the deposit agreement provides that the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, ADS holders may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings. In addition, if the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or reasonably practicable, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case you will receive no value for these rights. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to ADS holders the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. ADS holders will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares their ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. As a result, the depositary may decide not to make the distribution and ADS holders will not receive such distribution. 32 Table of Contents You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by the ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems necessary in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. As we are a Cayman Islands company, you may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and our ability to protect our rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law, Cap 22 (Law 3 of 1961, as consolidated and revised) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities law as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in the federal court of the United States. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. Substantially all of our assets and a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulties in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a public company incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to sue before the federal courts of the United States. As a result, our ability to protect our interests if we are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable us to sue in a United States federal court may be limited. You may have difficulties in enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state due to the lack of reciprocal treaty in the Cayman Islands or the PRC providing statutory recognition of judgments obtained in the United States. Furthermore, it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons who reside outside the United States predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. 33 Table of Contents We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Listing Rules and, as a result, rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to shareholders of other companies, and we may also rely on the foreign private issuer exemption from most of the corporate governance requirements under the NASDAQ Listing Rules. Because Shanda Interactive owns more than 50% of the total voting rights in our company, we are a “controlled company” under the NASDAQ Listing Rules. As a controlled company, we are relying on the “controlled company” exemption under the NASDAQ Listing Rules and are not obligated to comply with certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements, including the requirements: • that a majority of our board of directors consist of independent directors; • that we have a corporate governance and nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; • that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and • for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and governance committee and the compensation committee. We are not required to and will not voluntarily meet these requirements. As a result of our use of the “controlled company” exemptions, you will not have the same protection afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of NASDAQ’s corporate governance requirements. In the event that we no longer qualify as a “controlled company” under the NASDAQ Listing Rules, we intend to rely on the foreign private issuer exemption from most of the corporate governance requirements under the NASDAQ Listing Rules. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs or Class A ordinary shares. Based upon the composition of our income and valuation of our assets, including goodwill, we do not believe that we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for the taxable year ending December 31, 2009. That determination is subject to uncertainty, however, both because it is not clear how the contractual arrangements between our PRC subsidiaries and Shanghai Shulong will be treated for purposes of the PFIC rules, and because of the uncertain characterization of certain components of our revenue. We must make a separate determination each year as to whether we are a PFIC after the close of each taxable year. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during the taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. Because we expect to continue to hold a substantial amount of cash and other passive assets, and because the determination of whether we are a PFIC will depend on the character of our income and assets and the value of our assets from time to time, which may be based in part on the market price of our ADSs, which is likely to fluctuate (and may fluctuate considerably given that market prices of Internet and online game companies historically have been especially volatile), we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for the taxable year ending December 31, 2009 or any future taxable year. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. person held an ADS or a Class A ordinary share, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. person. See Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Taxation — United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” Our dual-class ordinary share structure with different voting rights could discourage others from pursuing any change of control transactions that holders of our Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association provide for a dual-class ordinary share structure. Our ordinary shares are divided into Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Holders of Class A ordinary shares are entitled to one vote per share, while the holder of Class B ordinary shares, which is Shanda Interactive, is entitled to 10 votes per share. We issued Class A ordinary shares represented by our ADSs in our initial public offering. Shanda Interactive holds Class B ordinary shares, each of which is convertible into one Class A ordinary share at any time by Shanda Interactive. Class A ordinary shares are not convertible into Class B ordinary shares under any circumstances. Due to the disparate voting rights attached to these two classes, the holder of our Class B ordinary shares has significant voting rights over matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and certain corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations and other business combinations. This concentrated control could discourage others from pursuing any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transactions that holders of Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. 34 Table of Contents Our amended and restated articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our amended and restated articles of association include certain provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company. Such provisions could deprive our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over the prevailing market price by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transactions. The following provisions in our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company: • our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association provides for a dual-class ordinary share structure with disparate voting rights attached to the two classes of ordinary shares; • our board of directors has the authority, without approval by the shareholders, to issue any unissued shares and determine the terms and conditions of such shares, including preferred, deferred or other special rights or restrictions with respect to dividend, voting and return of capital; • the shareholders may by ordinary resolution appoint a candidate as director of the board to fill a casual vacancy or as an addition to the existing board; • the chairman, a majority of our board of directors or shareholder(s) who hold(s) more than 25% of the voting rights of our company having requisitioned for an extraordinary shareholders’ meeting at least 21 days previously, have the right to convene an extraordinary shareholders’ meeting, and the agenda of such meeting will be set by a majority of the directors or the shareholder(s) who hold more than 25% of the voting rights of our company who request such meeting; and • the amended and restated articles of association may be amended only by a resolution passed at a shareholders’ meeting by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the vote cast. The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited by the terms of the deposit agreement. A holder of our ADSs may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Upon receipt of voting instructions of a holder of ADSs in the manner set forth in the deposit agreement, the depositary will endeavor to vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association and Cayman Islands law, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is five days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast, or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ordinary shares are not voted as you requested. Your right as a holder of ADSs to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to our ADS holders in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. In addition, the deposit agreement provides that the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, ADS holders may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings. In addition, if the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or reasonably practicable, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case you will receive no value for these rights. 