ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Certain statements in this Form 10-K, as well as other statements made by us from time to time, contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially. The considerations listed below represent certain important factors we believe could cause such results to differ. These considerations are not intended to represent a complete list of the general or specific risks that may affect the Company. It should be recognized that other risk factors (including those described in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) may be significant, presently or in the future, and the risks set forth below may affect us to a greater extent than indicated. We disclaim any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements. Current economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products, reduce access to credit and cause our customers and others with which we do business to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Worldwide economic conditions have recently deteriorated in many countries and regions, including the United States, and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Consumer spending is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, currency exchange rates, taxation, gasoline prices, real estate values, foreclosure rates, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Many of these factors are outside of our control and may have a negative impact on our sales and margins. Our customers’ purchases, including our products, could decline during periods when disposable income is lower, when prices increase in response to rising costs or in periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. If we encounter increases in our product costs, these may not be offset by comparable rises in the income of consumers of our products. These consumers may choose to purchase fewer of our products or lower-priced products of our competitors in response to higher prices for our products, or may choose not to purchase our products at prices that reflect our price increases that become effective from time to time. If any of these events occur, or if unfavorable economic conditions continue to challenge the consumer environment, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, product suppliers, insurers, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions which are counterparties to our credit facilities and derivatives transactions. Our customers may experience diminished liquidity that could result in an increase in our credit risk, or our customers may encounter an inability to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. If third parties on which we rely for goods or services are unable to overcome difficulties resulting from the deterioration in worldwide economic conditions and provide us with the materials and services we need, or if counterparties to our credit facilities or derivatives transactions do not perform their obligations, our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity could be adversely affected. For example, we have experienced some disruption in product sourcing as a result of certain unforeseen factory closures in 2008. While the financial consequences to the Company of these closures were not material, the impact of many closures of major facilities may have an adverse effect on product sourcing. We attempt to mitigate this risk in a variety of ways, including diversification among factories, but such risk to our business and results of operations cannot be completely eliminated. We face risks relating to competition. Competition is intense in the footwear industry. Certain of our competitors are larger and have greater financial, marketing and technological resources than we do. Our success depends upon our ability to remain competitive in the areas of style, price, quality, location and service, among others, and in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing merchandise and fashion trends and consumer preferences and demands in a timely manner. The industry has also been impacted by retailers aggressively competing on the basis of price. Accordingly, there has been competitive pressure on us to keep our selling prices low. If we are unable to respond effectively to these competitive pressures, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. 12 BROWN SHOE COMPANY, INC. 2008 FORM 10-K We face risks related to the maintenance of proper inventory levels. We place orders with manufacturers for some of our products prior to the time we receive all of our customers’ orders. We do this to minimize purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders and the risk of non-delivery. We also maintain an inventory of certain products that we anticipate will be in greater demand. We may fail to gauge the fashion tastes of consumers or differentiate our retail and wholesale offerings. However, the current global economic slowdown makes it increasingly difficult for us and our customers to accurately forecast product demand trends, and we may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair the brand image and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply the quality products that we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships, negatively impact our sales results and diminish brand awareness. We face risks relating to changes in consumer preferences. The footwear industry is subject to rapidly changing consumer demands and fashion trends. Accordingly, our success in both our wholesale and retail operations depends in large part on our ability to anticipate, understand and react to changing consumer demands. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. The success of our products, merchandising strategies and marketing strategies and programs will also depend on a favorable reception by our customers. Furthermore, consumer preferences and purchasing patterns may be influenced by consumers’ disposable income, which could impact the success of our operations. We rely on foreign sources of production. General We rely almost entirely on foreign sourcing for our footwear products. We source footwear products from independent third-party manufacturing facilities located in China and, to a lesser extent, Brazil and other countries. Typically, we are a major customer of these third-party manufacturing facilities. However, there is substantial competition in the footwear industry for quality footwear manufacturers. Accordingly, our future results will partly depend on maintaining close working relationships with our principal manufacturers. As is common in the industry, we do not have any long-term contracts with our independent third-party foreign manufacturers. We cannot ensure that we will not experience difficulties with such manufacturers, including reduction in the availability of production capacity, failure to meet production deadlines, increases in manufacturing costs or failure to meet our quality standards. Foreign manufacturing is subject to a number of risks, including transportation delays and interruptions, work stoppages, political instability, expropriation, nationalization, foreign currency fluctuations, changing economic conditions, the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers and changes in governmental policies. We require our third-party foreign manufacturers to meet our standards and footwear-industry standards for working conditions and other matters, including compliance with applicable labor, environmental and other laws, before we place orders with them to manufacture products for us. A failure by any of our third-party manufacturers to adhere to these standards or laws could cause us to incur additional costs for our products and could cause negative publicity and harm our business and reputation. We also require our third-party foreign manufacturers to meet our and industry standards for product safety, including compliance with applicable laws and standards with respect to lead content in paint and other child safety issues. A failure by any of our third-party manufacturers to adhere to product safety standards could lead to a product recall, which could result in critical media coverage and harm our business and reputation and could cause us to incur additional costs. We cannot predict whether additional United States or foreign customs quotas, duties, taxes or other changes or restrictions will be imposed upon the importation of foreign produced products in the future or what effect such actions could have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, our products depend on the availability of leather and other raw materials. Any significant shortage of quantities or increases in the cost of leather or other materials or resources used to produce our products could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 13 BROWN SHOE COMPANY, INC. 2008 FORM 10-K China We rely heavily on manufacturing facilities located in China. Historically, the trade relationship between the United States and China has not had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There have been, however, and may in the future be, threats to the trade relationships between the United States and China. There can be no assurance that the trade relationship between the United States and China will not worsen, and if it does worsen, that our financial condition or results of operations will not be materially adversely affected thereby. We cannot predict the effect that changes in the economic and political conditions in the United States and China could have on the economics of doing business with Chinese manufacturers. For example, manufacturing capacity in China may shift from footwear to other industries with manufacturing margins that are perceived to be higher. Currently, many footwear manufacturers in China are facing labor shortages as migrant workers seek better wages and working conditions in other industries and vocations. If this trend continues, our current manufacturers’ operations could be adversely affected, and we may experience difficulties or delays in sourcing our footwear as well as higher footwear costs. Although we believe we could find alternative manufacturing sources for those products we currently source from China through independent third-party manufacturing facilities in other countries, the loss of a substantial portion of our Chinese manufacturing capacity would have a material adverse effect on the Company. For example, alternative manufacturers may have higher prices, less favorable payment terms, less manufacturing capacity, lower quality standards or increased lead times for delivery. If we are unable to provide products consistent with our standards or the manufacture of our footwear is delayed or becomes more expensive, this could result in our customers canceling orders, refusing to accept deliveries or demanding reductions in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, the occurrence of a natural disaster such as an earthquake or hurricane or the outbreak of a pandemic disease in China could severely interfere with the manufacture of our products and have a material adverse effect on the Company. Currency Although we purchase most products from foreign manufacturers in United States dollars and otherwise engage in foreign currency hedging transactions, we cannot ensure that we will not experience cost variations with respect to exchange rate changes. For example, although we purchase footwear made in China using United States dollars, recently Chinese manufacturers have been increasing their United States dollar prices to compensate for the appreciation of the Chinese currency against the United States dollar. Also, if we continue to grow internationally and increase our net sales in currencies other than the United States dollar, our exposure to foreign currencies will increase. We face risks relating to customer concentration. Our wholesale customers include mass merchandisers, national chains, department stores, independent retailers, catalogs and online retailers. Several of our customers operate multiple department store divisions. Furthermore, we often sell multiple types of licensed, branded and private-label footwear to these same mass merchandisers, national chains, department stores, independent retailers, catalogs and online retailers. While we believe purchasing decisions in many cases are made independently by the buyers and merchandisers of each of the customers, a decision by our customers who operate multiple mass merchandisers, national chains, department stores, independent retailers, catalogs and/or online retailers or any other significant customer to decrease the amount of footwear products purchased from us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The retail industry has experienced increased consolidation. As this trend continues, our customers will likely seek more favorable terms for their purchases of our products, which could limit our ability to raise prices or achieve our profit goals. In turn, we may not be able to recoup raw material or other cost increases. Sales on terms less favorable to us than our current terms will have an adverse effect on our profitability. Consolidation could lead to a decrease in the number of stores that carry our products and could expose us to greater concentration of accounts receivable risk. In addition, retailers are deciding to source more of their products directly from manufacturers overseas and reducing their reliance on wholesalers. If retailers continue to increase their direct sourcing of footwear from overseas, this could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are dependent on our information technology systems. Our computer network and systems are essential to all aspects of our operations. If there were to be a major disruption of our information technology operations, we have emergency back-up facility arrangements and procedures in place. However, if a disruption is of a nature that delays or prohibits implementation of back-up arrangements, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 14 BROWN SHOE COMPANY, INC. 2008 FORM 10-K To support our growth strategy while streamlining and transforming day-to-day operations for our integrated business model, we are converting select existing internally-developed and certain other third-party applications to an integrated enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) information technology system provided by third-party vendors. These information technology initiatives began during the summer of 2008 and will likely continue through 2011. We believe the phased implementation may disrupt not only our information systems, but also a significant portion of our general office operations. While we believe the implementation of these systems will provide significant opportunity for us, such a major undertaking carries various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. These include (i) changes in the estimated costs and anticipated benefits of strategic business transformation; (ii) potential disruption to our business and operations as we implement the ERP applications; (iii) the timing and uncertainty of activities related to software implementation and business transformation; (iv) the new software system’s ability to enable our successful execution of our growth strategy; and (v) the additional risk of unforeseen issues, interruptions and costs. If we are unable to successfully implement these information technology initiatives, it may have an adverse effect on our capital resources, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We may fail to protect the integrity and security of customer and associate information. We routinely possess sensitive customer and associate information and, while we have taken reasonable and appropriate steps to protect that information, if our security procedures and controls were compromised, it could harm our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition and may increase the costs we incur to protect against such information security breaches, such as increased investment in technology, the costs of compliance with consumer protection laws and costs resulting from consumer fraud. We may be unable to retain senior management and to recruit and retain other key associates. Our success depends on the ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified management, administrative, product development and sales personnel to support existing operations and future growth. Competition for qualified personnel in the footwear industry is intense, and we compete for these individuals with other companies that in many cases have substantial financial and other resources. The loss of the services of any members of senior management or the inability to attract and retain other qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may also encounter disruption to our business and operations as we implement changes associated with our voluntary severance program and the relocation of our Famous Footwear division headquarters from Madison, Wisconsin to St. Louis, Missouri. We face risks relating to our licensed and owned intellectual property. Licenses The success of our Wholesale Operations segment has to date been due, in part, to our ability to attract and retain licensors which have strong, well-recognized brands and trademarks. Our license agreements are generally for an initial term of two to four years, subject to renewal, but even where we have longer-term licenses or have an option to renew a license, such agreements are dependent upon our achieving certain results in marketing the licensed products. While we believe we will generally be able to decide whether to renew our existing licenses and obtain new licenses in the future, there can be no assurance we will be able to renew our current licenses or obtain new licenses. In addition, certain of our license agreements are not exclusive, and new or existing competitors may obtain similar licenses. Many of our license agreements require minimum royalty payments. Our ability to generate sufficient sales and profitability to cover these minimum royalty requirements is not guaranteed, and if sales of such products are not sufficient to generate these minimum payments, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Trademarks We believe that our trademarks and trade names are important to our business and are generally sufficient to permit us to carry on our business as presently conducted and planned. We cannot, however, know whether we will be able to secure protection for our intellectual property in the future or if that protection will be adequate for future operations. Furthermore, we face the risk of ineffective protection of intellectual property rights in jurisdictions where we source and distribute our products. We also cannot be certain that our activities do not infringe on the proprietary rights of others. If we are compelled to prosecute infringing parties, defend our intellectual property or defend ourselves from intellectual property claims made by others, we may face significant expenses and liability. 15 BROWN SHOE COMPANY, INC. 2008 FORM 10-K We are dependent on leased locations. Our Famous Footwear and Specialty Retail segments operate footwear stores. We lease all of these stores. Accordingly, the success of our operations, in part, is dependent on our ability to secure affordable, long-term leases in desirable locations and to secure renewals of such leases. Although we believe that our current leases can be renewed on acceptable terms, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully negotiate lease renewals on existing stores or to obtain acceptable terms for new stores in desirable locations, and the failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our ability to grow our business and our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on major branded suppliers. Our Famous Footwear retail chain purchases a substantial portion of its footwear products from major branded suppliers. While we believe our relationships with our current suppliers are good, the loss of any of our major suppliers or product developed exclusively for Famous Footwear could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As is common in the industry, we do not have any long-term contracts with our suppliers. In addition, the success of our financial performance is dependent on the ability of Famous Footwear to obtain products from its suppliers on a timely basis and on acceptable terms. We cannot assure the successful implementation of our growth strategy. Domestic Our growth strategy includes continued expansion of our Famous Footwear store base, continued growth in the distribution of our portfolio of owned and licensed brands, continued launching of new brands, continued development of our e-commerce business and potential acquisitions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement any or all of these strategies, which could lead to a decline in our results of operations. International Our growth strategy includes the expansion of our brands internationally and the continued growth of our international sales. For example, we own a 51% equity stake in B&H Footwear Limited (“B&H Footwear”), a joint venture that began marketing Naturalizer footwear in China in fall 2007. In addition, B&H Footwear sells Naturalizer footwear on a wholesale basis to our joint venture partner, Hongguo International Holdings Limited (“Hongguo”). Hongguo then sells Naturalizer products through retail stores in China. Our international operations are subject to the many unique risks of doing business abroad, including, among other things, the ability to obtain and retain international rights to our licenses and trademarks. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement any or all of these strategies, which could lead to a decline in our results of operations. We may face transitional challenges with acquisitions. Periodically, we pursue acquisitions of other companies or businesses. Although we review the records of acquisition candidates, such an in-depth review of the records may not reveal existing or potential problems. As a result, we may not become familiar enough with the business to fully assess its strengths and weaknesses, and accordingly, we may assume adverse operating conditions and/or unanticipated liabilities, and the business may not perform as well as expected. We face the risk that the returns on acquisitions will not support the expenditures or indebtedness incurred to acquire such businesses. We also face the risk that we will not be able to integrate acquisitions into our existing operations effectively without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems. Integration may be hindered by, among other things, differing procedures, including internal controls, business practices and technology systems. We may need to allocate more management resources to integration than we planned, which may adversely affect our ability to pursue other profitable activities. We are subject to periodic litigation and other regulatory proceedings. We are a defendant from time to time in lawsuits and regulatory actions (including environmental matters) relating to our business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings are expensive and will require that we devote substantial resources and executive time to defend the Company. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings, for further discussion of pending matters. 16 BROWN SHOE COMPANY, INC. 2008 FORM 10-K We are subject to rising insurance costs. We self-insure a significant portion of our expected losses under our workers’ compensation, employment practices, health, disability, general, auto and property liability programs. The liabilities associated with the risks that are retained by us are estimated by considering our historical claims experience and data from actuarial sources. The estimated accruals for these liabilities could be affected if claims differ from the assumptions used and historical trends. Unanticipated changes in the estimates underlying our reserves for these losses, such as claims experience, inflation and regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We face risks that our quarterly sales and earnings may fluctuate, which may result in volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly sales and earnings can vary due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales and earnings. In our wholesale business, sales of footwear are dependent on orders from our major customers and they may change delivery schedules, change the mix of products they order or cancel orders without penalty. In addition, our wholesale customers set the delivery schedule for shipments of our products, which could cause shifts of sales between quarters. Our Famous Footwear retail business is seasonally weighted to the back-to-school season, which falls into our fiscal third quarter. In addition, our annualized tax rate is based on projections of our domestic and international operating results for the year, which we review and revise as necessary each quarter. As a result of these specific and other general factors, our operating results will vary from quarter to quarter, and the results for any particular quarter may not be indicative of results for the full year. Any shortfall in sales or earnings from the levels expected by investors or securities analysts could cause a decrease in the trading price of our stock. We could be required to provide additional funding for our pension plans as a result of the negative impact of current market returns on the return on plan assets for our pension plans. As a result of disruptions in the domestic and international financial markets, our pension plans had a decrease in asset values during the year ended January 31, 2009. We are unable to predict the severity or the duration of the current disruptions in the financial markets and the adverse economic conditions in the United States, Europe and Asia. We are not required to make any mandatory contributions to our plans in 2009. Nevertheless, the funded status of these plans, and the related cost reflected in our financial statements, are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment. Under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the “Pension Protection Act”), continued losses of asset values may necessitate increased funding of the plans in the future to meet minimum federal government requirements. The continued downward pressure on the asset values of these plans may require us to fund obligations earlier than we had originally planned, which would have a negative impact on our cash flows from operations. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 