D. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry If we are unable to successfully develop and source new online games, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop and source new online games that appeal to game players. We develop and source new online games through our multi-channel strategy, including in-house development, licensing, investments, acquisitions and joint operation. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in executing such strategy. If we fail to do so, our business, financial condition, results of operations and business prospects would be materially and adversely affected. The following summarizes risks relating to our multi-channel strategy. 7 Table of Contents • In-house development of new online games and introduction of expansion packs for our existing online games We must continue to successfully develop new online games in-house to expand our game portfolio and introduce updates and expansion packs, which are more substantial enhancements than updates, for our existing games to extend the commercial lifespan of our existing games. Our ability to develop successful new online games in-house will largely depend on our ability to (i) anticipate and effectively respond to changing game player interests and preferences and technological advances in a timely manner, (ii) attract, retain and motivate talented online game development personnel and (iii) execute effectively our online game development plans. In-house development requires a substantial initial investment prior to the launch of a game, as well as a significant commitment of future resources to produce updates and expansion packs. Our ability to introduce successful updates and expansion packs for our existing online games will also depend on our ability to collect and analyze user behavior data and feedback from our online community in a timely manner and to effectively incorporate features into our updates and expansion packs to improve the variety and attractiveness of our virtual items. We cannot assure you that we will be able to collect and analyze game player behavior data on a timely basis or that such data will accurately reflect game player behavior. • Maintaining good relationships with our licensors, extending licenses for our existing licensed online games and licensing new online games We license many of our online games, including some of our most popular games, from third parties. In 2010 and 2011, we derived approximately 60.5% and 54.9% of our net revenues, respectively, from online games that were licensed from third parties. We must maintain good relationships with our licensors to ensure the continued smooth operation of our licensed games. Additionally, we depend upon our licensors to provide technical support necessary for the operation of the licensed games, as well as updates and expansion packs that help to sustain interest in a game. Moreover, certain marketing activities often require the consent of our licensors. Finally, our licenses may be terminated upon the occurrence of certain events, such as a material breach by us. Only some of our license agreements allow us to automatically extend the term of the license without renegotiating with the licensors. We may want to extend a license upon its expiration but may not be able to do so on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our licensors may also demand new royalty terms that are unacceptable to us. Our ability to continue to license our online games and to maintain good relationships with our licensors also affect our ability to license new games developed by the same licensors. • Investments in and acquisitions of other businesses that we believe may benefit our business We intend to continue to invest in or acquire other businesses that complement our business or games that we believe may benefit us in terms of game player base or game portfolio. For example, in 2010, we acquired Eyedentity Games, Inc. or Eyedentity, which is a Korea-based online game developer, and Goldcool Holdings Limited, or Goldcool, which is a Shanghai-based online game developer and operator. In 2006, we established 18 Capital, an internal business development team, to identify game development and operating studios for potential investments or acquisitions. Our ability to grow through investments and acquisitions will depend on the availability of suitable candidates at an acceptable cost and our ability to consummate such transactions on commercially reasonable terms, as well as our ability to obtain any required governmental approvals. The identification and completion of these transactions may also require us to expend significant management and other resources. Moreover, the benefits of an investment or acquisition may take considerable time to materialize, and we cannot assure you that any particular transaction will achieve the intended benefits. Future acquisitions could also expose us to potential risks, including those associated with the integration of new operations, technologies and personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of the acquisitions and potential loss of, or harm to, our relationships with employees, customers, licensors and other suppliers as a result of integration of new businesses. 8 Table of Contents Ÿ Sourcing of new online games through joint operation We jointly operate certain games in China under nonexclusive licenses granted by third-party developers in China who also operate those same games on their own platform. We must maintain good relationships with our joint operators to ensure the continued smooth development or operation of our joint operation games. Our ability to jointly operate successful online games also depends on the availability of joint operation partner candidates. We depend substantially on two massively multi-player online role-playing games, or MMORPGs, which accounted for approximately 66.8% and 56.5% of our net revenues in 2010 and 2011, respectively, and have finite commercial lifespans. Two of our MMORPGs, namely Legend of Mir II, or Mir II, and The World of Legend, or Woool, including their sequels, contributed approximately 45.7% and 21.1% of our net revenues, respectively, in 2010 and 39.7% and 16.8% of our net revenues, respectively, in 2011. Even though we expect the percentage of our net revenues generated from Mir II and Woool to decrease as net revenues from our other games, such as Dragon Nest, increase, we expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of our net revenues from these games in the near term. Thus, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected by any factor that contributes to a decline in revenues from Mir II or Woool, including: • any reduction in purchases of virtual items by Mir II or Woool players; • a decrease in the popularity of either game in China due to increased competition or other factors; • failure to improve, update or enhance Mir II or Woool in a timely manner; or • any lasting or prolonged server interruption due to network failures or other factors or any other adverse developments specific to Mir II or Woool. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2009, we introduced an expansion pack in Mir II which was not well received and led to some game players reducing the amount of virtual items they purchased in the game. Primarily as a result of the introduction of that expansion pack, our net revenues in the first quarter of 2010 decreased by approximately 14% compared with the net revenues in the previous quarter. See also “—Risks Relating to Our ADSs—The price of our ADSs has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile, which may make it difficult for holders to resell the ADSs when desired or at attractive prices.” As with other online games, Mir II and Woool have finite commercial lifespans. We believe that Mir II and Woool, which we launched in 2001 and 2003, respectively, are in the more mature stages of their commercial lifespan. While we believe we will be able to extend the commercial lifespan of Mir II and Woool by enhancing, expanding and upgrading Mir II and Woool to include new features that appeal to existing players and attract new players, we cannot assure you that revenues from these games will not decline in the future as a result of the games reaching the end of their commercial lifespan. If we are not able to extend the commercial lifespan of Mir II and Woool, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents Our new games may not be commercially successful, and we may fail to launch new games according to our timetable, or at all. In order to remain competitive, we must introduce new online games that are attractive to our game players and can generate additional revenues and diversify our revenue sources. We cannot assure you that the new online games we launch will be commercially successful, and you should not use the success of our existing games as an indication of the future commercial success of any of the online games in our pipeline. A number of factors could result in delays in launching or prevent us from launching our new games, including technical difficulties, insufficient game development personnel, a lack of marketing or other resources, insufficient interest in our new games among players during the beta testing, and adverse developments in our relationship with the licensors of our new licensed games. In addition, there are many factors that could adversely affect the popularity of our new games, including our abilities to anticipate and adapt to future technology trends, new business models and changed game player preferences and requirements, to plan and organize marketing and promotional activities, and to differentiate our new games from our existing games and other games offered by other companies. If we fail to launch new games according to our timetable or at all or if our new games are not commercially successful, our business prospects and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected and we may not be able to recover our game sourcing or development costs, which can be significant. Our new games may attract game players away from our existing games, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our new online games may attract game players away from our existing games and shrink our existing games’ player base, which could in turn make those existing games less attractive to other game players, resulting in decreased revenues from our existing games. Players of our existing games may also spend less money to purchase virtual items in our new games than they would have spent if they had continued playing our existing games. In addition, our game players may migrate from our existing games with a higher profit margin to new games with a lower profit margin. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes or adjustments we make to our existing or new games may not be well received by our game players. As we develop new online games or introduce updates and expansion packs to our existing games, we closely monitor our game players’ tastes and preferences and may introduce or change certain game features or game play styles to make our games more attractive. We cannot assure you that these changes or adjustments will be well received by our game players, who may decide not to play our new games or cease playing our existing games. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2009, we introduced an expansion pack for Mir II which was not well received and led to some game players’ reducing the amount of virtual items they purchase in the game. Primarily as a result of the introduction of that expansion pack, our net revenues in the first quarter of 2010 decreased by approximately 14% compared with the net revenues in the previous quarter. As a result, any changes or adjustments we make to existing or new games may adversely impact our revenues and business prospects. 10 Table of Contents There are risks that the revenue models we adopt for our online games may not be suitable. We currently operate substantially all of our online games using the item-based revenue model and have generated, and expect to continue to generate, a substantial majority of our revenues using this revenue model. Although we have adopted the item-based revenue model for substantially all of our online games, it may not be the best revenue model for our games. The item-based revenue model requires us to develop or license online games that not only attract game players to spend more time playing, but also encourage them to purchase virtual items. The sale of virtual items requires us to track closely game players’ tastes and preferences, especially as to in-game consumption patterns. If we fail to develop or offer virtual items which game players purchase, we may not be able to effectively convert our active users into paying users. In addition, the item-based revenue model may cause additional concerns from PRC regulators who have been implementing regulations that are designed to reduce the amount of time that Chinese youth spend on online games and to limit the total amount of virtual currency issued by online game operators and the amount purchased by an individual game player. A revenue model that does not charge for playing time may be viewed by the PRC regulators as inconsistent with this goal. Furthermore, we may change the revenue model for some of our online games if we believe the existing revenue models are not optimal. We cannot assure you that the revenue model that we have adopted for any of our online games will continue to be suitable for that game, or that we will not in the future need to switch our revenue model or introduce new revenue model for that game. A change in revenue model could result in various adverse consequences, including disruptions of our game operations, criticism from game players who have invested time and money in a game and would be adversely affected by such a change, decreases in the number of our game players or decreases in the revenues we generate from our online games. Our business could suffer if we do not successfully manage our current growth and potential future growth. To execute our growth strategies, we anticipate that we will need to manage and supervise our current game portfolio, as well as develop and source additional games. We also will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce, manage our relationships with our game licensors, joint operators, game players and third-party service providers, develop web-based games and mobile games and launch new technologies that provide ease of access to our games through micro clients. In addition, we need to implement various new or upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and to improve our accounting and other internal management systems, all of which will require substantial management efforts and financial resources and may divert our management’s attention from running our business or otherwise harm our operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to efficiently or effectively implement our growth strategies or manage our growth, and any failure to do so may limit our future growth and hamper our business strategy. There are risks associated with our pursuit of growth through acquisitions and strategic investments. In recent years we have pursued, and in the future we may continue to pursue, growth through acquisitions and strategic investments. In general, these acquired or invested companies either own intellectual property rights relating to online games or operate a network for the distribution of our online games. For example, we acquired in 2010 Goldcool, which owns the intellectual property rights to numerous MMORPGs, including Hades Realm I and II, Zodiac Tales, and Dukes and Lords; Eyedentity, which owns the intellectual property rights to Dragon Nest. Our acquisition of these companies entails a number of other risks that could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations, including an inability to realize the synergies contemplated at the time of executing these transactions, difficulties integrating the acquired company’s personnel, operations, technologies or products into our existing business, the need for financial resources above our planned investment levels, unknown and unforeseen assumed liabilities, the diversion of management resources from other strategic and operational issues, the inability to retain the key employees of the acquired companies, and the potential write-offs of acquired assets and goodwill, as well as potential expenses related to the amortization of intangible assets. See also “—We may need to record impairment charges to earnings if our acquisition goodwill, investments in affiliate companies or acquired intangible assets are determined to be impaired, which would adversely affect our results of operations.” If we are unable to generate significant amounts of revenue from the acquired companies, we may suffer financial losses as a result of the acquired company’s on-going operating expenses, expenses related to the amortization of intangible assets from the acquisition, and additional share-based compensation expenses related to the acquisition. Our failure to address the risks associated with our acquisition of these companies may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We face risks associated with the licensing of our games internationally, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, our ability to expand our business internationally could be impaired. As of February 29, 2012, we had licensed 14 online games to game operators in a number of countries and regions throughout the world. We plan to further license our existing and new games in more countries and regions. Licensing our games for operations in overseas markets exposes us to a number of risks, including: • identifying and maintaining good relationships with game operators who are knowledgeable about, and can effectively distribute and operate our games in, international markets; • negotiating licensing agreements with game operators on terms that are commercially acceptable to us and enforcing the provisions of those agreements; • developing games, updates and expansion packs catering to overseas markets and renewing our license agreements with game operators upon expiration; • maintaining the reputation of our company and our games, given that our games are operated by game operators in the international markets with different standards; • protecting our intellectual property rights overseas and managing the related costs; • receiving and auditing the royalties we are entitled to receive; • complying with the different commercial and legal requirements of the international markets in which our games are offered, such as game import regulatory procedures, taxes and other restrictions and expenses; and • managing our foreign currency risks. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively, our ability to license our games overseas may be impaired, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. We or our licensors, joint operators or investees may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us or our licensors, joint operators or investees, may materially disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that in-house developed, licensed or jointly operated online games or other content posted on our website do not and will not infringe upon patents, copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. As of February 29, 2012, 10 of the games we operated were developed in-house, 13 were licensed from third parties, 10 were invested in or acquired from third parties and two were jointly operated with a third party. We or any of our licensors, joint operators or online game developers and operators in which we have invested may be perceived or alleged to infringe upon patents, copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights held by third parties and become subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property rights of others. For example, in 2003, Actoz and Wemade Entertainment Co., Ltd. filed a lawsuit against Shanda Interactive in the Beijing First Intermediate People’s Court alleging copyright infringement and unfair competition claims with respect to Woool. These claims were settled in February 2007. 12 Table of Contents If we, our licensors, joint operators or online game developers and operators in which we have invested are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be subject to monetary damages and be enjoined from using such intellectual property, or we may incur new or additional licensing costs if we wish to continue using the infringing content, be forced to develop or license alternatives or be forced to stop operating a game, any of which may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, we may incur substantial expenses and require significant attention of management in defending against these third-party infringement claims regardless of their merit. Some of our employees were previously employed at other companies, including some of our current and potential competitors. To the extent these employees or any employees we may hire in the future are involved in research that is similar to the research that they performed at their former employers, our competitors may file lawsuits or initiate proceedings against us alleging that these employees violated the intellectual property rights, such as trade secret rights, of their former employers. Although we are not aware of any pending or threatened claims alleging these types of violations of intellectual property rights, if any such claim arises in the future, litigation or other dispute resolution proceedings may be necessary to retain our ability to offer our current and future games, which could be costly and divert financial and management resources. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We regard our copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of the intellectual property used in our business, whether owned by us or licensed to us, may adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely on copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property law, as well as non-competition, confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, licensors, business partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Our employees are generally required to sign agreements acknowledging that all inventions, trade secrets, works of authorship, developments and other processes generated by them on our behalf are our property, and assigning to us any ownership rights that they may claim in those works. Despite our precautions, third parties may obtain and use intellectual property that we own or license without our consent. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may materially and adversely affect our business. For instance, pirate game servers illegally operate unauthorized copies of our online games and enable players to play those games without purchasing prepaid cards for our online games. Despite our efforts to shut down pirate game servers, we believe that a significant number of pirate game servers continue to operate unauthorized copies of our online games. If pirate game servers continue to operate any of our online games, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws and enforcement procedures in the PRC are uncertain and do not protect intellectual property rights in this area to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement procedures in the United States and other developed countries. Policing unauthorized use of intellectual properties is difficult and expensive. Any steps we have taken to prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual properties may be inadequate. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and could disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Our business may be materially harmed if our online games are not featured prominently in a sufficient number of internet cafes in China. We believe a substantial number of game players access our games through internet cafes in China. Due to limited hardware capacity, internet cafes generally feature a limited number of games on their computers. We thus compete with a growing number of online game operators to have our online games featured on these computers. This competition has intensified in China due to a nationwide suspension of approvals for the establishment of new internet cafes in 2007. See “—Risks Relating to Regulation of Our Business and to Our Structure—The PRC government has tightened its regulation of internet cafes, which are currently one of the primary venues for our users to play online games. Intensified government regulation of internet cafes could restrict our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and expand our game player base.” If we fail to feature our games prominently and sufficiently in internet cafes in China or fail to do so in a cost-effective manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We depend on certain affiliated entities to provide services that are critical to our business. The termination or breach of any of these service agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have engaged various entities under the common control of Shanda Interactive to provide certain services that are critical to our business, including, among others, online billing and payment, user authentication, customer service, anti-fatigue compliance, prepaid card marketing and distribution and data support services. For additional details on our agreements and the fees that we pay to these affiliated entities, see Item 7, “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions—Transactions and Agreements with Shanda Interactive.” Since we do not control these affiliated entities, and because we depend on them for the provision of services that are critical to the operation of our online game business, we face certain risks with respect to our arrangements with such entities. If any of these affiliated entities breaches obligations under the respective agreements, terminate these agreements, or refuse to renew these agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all, we may not be able to find a suitable alternative service provider or be able to establish our own integrated service and payment platforms or distribution network in a timely manner. Similarly, if we breach the terms of the agreements, these entities could terminate these agreements and halt services that are critical to our business. Termination of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure of or significant quality deterioration in the services provided by our affiliated entities could impact our reputation, reduce sales through these channels or even expose us to potential litigation risks. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Any failure of or significant quality deterioration in the integrated service platform and online billing and payment platforms or distribution network offered by our affiliated entities could materially and adversely affect our business. For example, we rely on Shanda Online’s customer service representatives as the first point of contact to serve our game players. Shanda Online handles customer requests such as providing account settlement-related services, retrieving forgotten passwords and recovering lost user accounts, and liaises with our game management team if the inquiries involve game-related technical problems, such as recovering virtual items and in-game characters. We also rely on Shanda Online to provide user authentication services for our game players who access our games through its integrated service platform. If Shanda Online fails to address customer service requests properly and in a timely manner, our game players may be unable to access our games or attribute any unpleasant experience with Shanda Online’s customer service to us, which could harm our reputation. As a result, we may fail to retain existing and attract new game players and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents Furthermore, we rely on Shengjing to provide prepaid card distribution services. Shengjing relies heavily on a distribution network composed of third-party distributors for its sales of prepaid cards to game players. As Shengjing does not enter into long-term agreements with any of its distributors, there can be no assurance that Shengjing will be able to continue to maintain favorable relationships with them. If Shengjing fails to maintain a stable and efficient distribution network or if there is any failure of or significant quality deterioration in Shengjing’s distribution services, our game players may be unable to purchase prepaid cards for our games, and as a result, we may fail to retain existing and attract new game players, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Through the contractual relationship with Shengjing, we rely on the online payment platform provided by Shengfutong for all of our direct sales of virtual prepaid cards to game players. Secured transmission of confidential information, such as game players’ credit card numbers and expiration dates, personal information and billing addresses over public networks, is essential to maintaining consumer confidence in such payment channels and to allowing us to collect payments on a timely basis. We expect that an increasing amount of the direct sales of prepaid cards will be conducted over the internet as a result of the growing use of online payment systems. As a result, associated online crime will likely increase, and we cannot assure you that the current security measures of Shengfutong and those of the third parties with whom Shengfutong transact businesses will be adequate. Security breaches of these online payment systems could result in non-collection of payments, expose us to litigation and possible liability for failing to protect confidential game player information and could harm our reputation and our ability to retain existing players and attract new players and to encourage the consumption of virtual items in our online games by game players. Shanda Online, Shengfutong and Shengjing provide integrated platform and payment services to some of our competitors, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. Shanda Online, Shengfutong and Shengjing provide integrated platform and payment services to other online game companies that compete with us, including Giant Interactive Group Inc., or Giant Interactive, Kingsoft Corporation Limited, or Kingsoft, The9 Limited, or The9, Renren Inc., LineKong Entertainment Technology Co. Ltd., and Suzhou Snail Electronics Co. Ltd., and may enter into additional similar commercial relationships with other online game companies. These commercial relationships may strengthen these online game companies’ market share and enable them to achieve market acceptance of their game and services, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, the online games that our competitors offer through the integrated service platform of Shanda Online may attract away players of our games and shrink our games’ player base, which could in turn make our games less attractive to other players. Furthermore, if our current game players spend money to play or purchase virtual items in our competitors’ games offered through the integrated service platform of Shanda Online that would otherwise have been spent on our games, our business, financial conditions and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We face the risks of uncertainties in the growth of the online game industry and market acceptance of our online games. The growth of this industry and the level of demand and market acceptance of our online games are subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Our results of operations will depend on factors beyond our control, including: • whether the online game industry, particularly in China and the rest of the Asia-Pacific region, continues to grow and the rate of any such growth; 15 Table of Contents • changes in consumer demographics, tastes or preferences; • the popularity and price of new online games and virtual items that we and our competitors launch and distribute; • our ability to timely upgrade and improve our existing games to extend their commercial lifespan and to maintain or expand their market share in the online game industry; • the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment, including social networking games such as those offered on Tencent Qzone platform, mobile games such as those offered on Apple’s iOS platform, and console system games such as those made by Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony, which are already popular in China and other countries or regions in which we market our online games; and • general economic conditions, particularly economic conditions that impact the level of discretionary consumer spending. There is no assurance that online games, such as MMORPGS, will continue to be popular in China or elsewhere. Because we expect to rely on MMORPGs as the primary source of our revenues, a decline in the popularity of online games in general, or the MMORPGs that we operate, would adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. We may not be able to adapt to the rapidly evolving online game industry in China. China’s online game industry is evolving rapidly. We need to adapt to new industry trends, including changes in game players’ preferences, new revenue models, new game content distribution models, new technologies and new governmental regulations. We evaluate these changes as they emerge and strive to adapt our business and operations in order to maintain and strengthen our leadership in the industry. If we are unable to do so successfully or fall behind in adopting new technologies or standards, our existing online games may lose popularity, and the games in our pipeline may not be well received by our game player base, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face significant competition which could reduce our market share and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The online game industry in China is highly competitive. In recent years, numerous competitors have entered the online game industry in China. We expect more companies to enter the market and we expect a wider range of online games to be introduced to China. Competition from other online game operators, both based in China as well as overseas, is likely to increase in the future. Other online game operators or developers, such as China-based Tencent Holdings Limited, NetEase.com, Changyou.com Limited, Perfect World Co., Ltd., Giant Interactive, Kingsoft, KongZhong Corporation, NetDragon Websoft Inc., Nineyou International Limited and The9 Limited as well as international game developers, such as Activision Blizzard, Inc., Electronic Arts Inc., Zynga, Inc., NCSoft Corporation, Nexon Corporation and NHN Corp., are our current or potential future competitors. As the online game industry in China is constantly evolving, our current or future competitors may compete more successfully as the industry matures. In particular, any of these competitors may offer products and services that provide significant performance, price, creativity or other advantages over those offered by us. These products and services may weaken our brand name and achieve greater market acceptance than ours. In addition, even if we are successful in launching new online games, competitors may launch similar online games which compete for potential game players. Furthermore, any of our current or future competitors may be acquired by, receive investments from or enter into other strategic or commercial relationships with larger, more established and better financed companies and therefore, obtain significantly greater financial, marketing and game licensing and development resources than us. In addition, increased competition in the online game industry in China could make it difficult for us to retain existing players and attract new players. Moreover, we may face competition from console systems that have achieved significant success in markets other than China but have yet to be permitted to be sold legally in China due to regulatory and other reasons. If these console systems, many of which are strengthening their online game features, are permitted to be sold in China, we may face additional competition. Other forms of video game products, such as social network games and mobile phone games, may also compete with our online games for players’ limited time and disposable income. We also compete with other forms of entertainment, such as television and movies. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents We depend on our key personnel, and our business and growth prospects may be severely disrupted if we lose their services or are unable to attract new key employees. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our key executive officers and other key employees. In particular, we rely on the expertise, experience and leadership ability of Mr. Qunzhao Tan, our chairman and chief executive officer, as well as the co-founder of our business, Mr. Tianqiao Chen, our director, the chairman of Shanda Interactive and the co-founder of our business, Mr. Richard Wei, our chief financial officer, Mr. Xiangdong Zhang, our chief operating officer, and William Chen, our chief technology officer. We also rely on a number of key technology staff for the development and operation of our online games. In addition, as we expect to focus increasingly on the development of our own online games, we will need to continue attracting and retaining skilled and experienced online game development personnel to maintain our competitiveness. If one or more of our key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel, our business could be severely disrupted, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key personnel. In addition, if any of our executive officers or key employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose know-how, trade secrets, suppliers and key professionals and staff. All of our employees, including each of our executive officers and key employees, have entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains customary non-compete provisions. Although non-compete provisions are generally enforceable under PRC laws, PRC legal practice regarding the enforceability of such provisions is not as well-developed as those in countries such as the United States. Thus, we cannot assure you that a PRC court would enforce our rights under the non-compete provisions. Furthermore, since the demand and competition for talent is intense in our industry, particularly for online game development personnel and related technical personnel, we may need to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain key personnel in the future, which could increase our compensation expenses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain the key personnel that we will need to implement our strategies and achieve our business objectives. The global financial and economic crisis, particularly any slowdown in the Chinese economy, may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may be adversely affected by the possible “hard landing” of China’s economy in the future. The global financial markets have experienced significant disruptions since 2008, the economic effects of which have persisted through 2011. China’s economy has also faced challenges. To the extent that there have been improvements in some areas, it is uncertain whether such recovery is sustainable. Because substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China, our business and prospects may be materially and adversely affected by any deterioration in China’s macroeconomic environment. 17 Table of Contents There is a possibility that China’s economic growth rate may materially decline in the near future, which may have adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we are uncertain about the extent to which the recent global financial and economic crisis and potential rapid slowdown of China’s economic growth may impact our business in the short term and long term, there is a risk that our business, results of operations and prospects would be materially and adversely affected by any ongoing global economic downturn or slowdown of China’s growth rate. Since we currently derive substantially all of our revenues from game players in China, if our game players reduce the amount they spend on our online games due to any prolonged slowdown or hard landing of the Chinese economy, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, our plan to expand our business internationally may be adversely affected by an economic downturn in the countries or regions where we license or intend to license our online games. If we fail to anticipate or successfully implement new technologies, our games may become obsolete or uncompetitive, and our business prospects and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The online game industry is subject to rapid technological change. We need to anticipate the emergence of new technologies and assess their market acceptance. In addition, government agencies or industry organizations may adopt new standards that apply to game development. We also need to invest significant financial resources in product development to keep pace with technological advances. However, development activities are inherently uncertain, and our significant expenditures on technologies may not generate corresponding benefits. If we fall behind in adopting new technologies or standards, our existing games may decline in popularity, our new games may not be well received by our game players, and we may incur significant cost overruns in product development, any of which would materially and adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. Errors or defects in our online games and the proliferation of cheating programs could materially and adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. Our online games may contain errors or other defects. In addition, parties unrelated to us have developed, and may continue to develop, internet cheating programs that enable game players to obtain unfair advantages over other game players who do not use such programs. Furthermore, certain cheating programs could cause the loss of a character’s superior features acquired by a player. The occurrence of errors or defects in our online games or our failure to discover and disable cheating programs affecting the fairness of our game environment could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and discourage our game players from playing our games. As a result, such errors, defects and cheating programs could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Network interruptions, security breaches or computer virus attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects and results of operations. Any failure to maintain the satisfactory performance, reliability, security and availability of our network infrastructure, including as a result of natural disasters such as earthquakes and floods, may cause significant harm to our reputation and our ability to retain existing and attract new game players. We maintain a distributed server network architecture with third-party service providers hosting servers in more than one hundred cities throughout China. We do not maintain full backup for our server network hardware. 18 Table of Contents Major risks involved in such network infrastructure include: • any break-downs or system failures resulting in a sustained shutdown of all or a material portion of our servers, including failures which may be attributable to sustained power shutdowns, or efforts to gain unauthorized access to our systems causing loss or corruption of data or malfunctions of software or hardware; and • any disruption or failure in the national backbone network, which would prevent our players outside Shanghai from logging on to any of our games, or playing games for which the servers are all located in Shanghai. In the past, our server network has experienced unexpected outages for several hours and occasional slower performance in a number of locations in China as a result of failures by third-party service providers. Our network systems are also vulnerable to damage from fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer virus, hackings and similar events. Any network interruption or inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of our games or deterioration in the quality of access to our games could reduce our game players’ satisfaction. In addition, any security breach caused by hacking, which involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems, or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, and the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not maintain insurance policies covering losses relating to our systems and we do not have business interruption insurance. The successful operation of our business and implementation of our growth strategies, including our ability to accommodate additional game players in the future, depend upon the performance and reliability of the internet infrastructure and fixed line and wireless telecommunications networks in China. We rely on the internet infrastructure and fixed line and wireless telecommunication networks in China to provide data communication capacity or to host our servers. Although there are private sector internet and wireless telecommunication operators in China, almost all access to the internet or wireless telecommunication is maintained through a limited number of state-owned telecommunication operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or MIIT. MIIT or these telecommunication operators may unilaterally change their policies or change the enforcement of their current policies. Theses telecommunication operators may also impose higher service or network fees on us or our third-party service providers. We typically enter into contracts directly or through agencies with the local branches of the principal telecommunication operators. Such contracts are typically for a term of one year and are renewable subject to early termination. If we are unable to renew these contracts when they expire or locate alternative telecommunication service providers in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms or at all in the event of any infrastructure disruption or failure or other problems with the internet infrastructure or the telecommunication networks in China, the quality and stability of our websites and our platform may be affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may need to record impairment charges to earnings if our acquisition goodwill, investments in affiliate companies or acquired intangible assets are determined to be impaired, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We acquire or invest in companies whose businesses supplement our business and license online games from third parties. We record acquisition goodwill, investments in affiliate companies and acquired intangible assets on our balance sheet in connection with such acquisitions, investments and licensing arrangements, respectively. If the carrying value of our acquisition goodwill, investments in affiliate companies or acquired intangible assets are determined to be impaired, we would be required to write down the carrying value or to record charges to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which our acquisition goodwill, investments in affiliate companies or acquired intangible assets are determined to be impaired, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In connection with this risk, impairment charges recorded in earnings for intangible assets, prepaid upfront license fees in connection with licensing arrangements, and investments in affiliated companies were nil, RMB 10.2 million, and RMB 78.3 million for 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. 19 Table of Contents We have limited business insurance coverage in China. China’s insurance industry is still at an early stage of development. In particular, PRC insurance companies do not offer many business insurance products available in other countries. As a result, we do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might cause us to incur substantial costs and result in the diversion of resources. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the effectiveness of such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm for a public company must issue an attestation report on the effectiveness of such company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011. In addition, PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian CPAs Limited Company, our independent registered public accounting firm, reported that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011. If we fail to maintain the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports. As a result, any failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we may need to incur additional costs and use additional management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other requirements going forward. You may not be able to rely on our quarterly operating results as an indication of our future performance because our quarterly operating results may be subject to significant fluctuations. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including but not limited to: • our ability to retain existing game players, attract new game players at a steady rate and maintain user satisfaction; • the announcement or introduction of new games or updates or expansion packs to existing games by us or our competitors; • the range, number and pricing of virtual items available for sale; • technical difficulties, system downtime or internet failures; 20 Table of Contents • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; • the adoption of new, or changes to existing, governmental regulations; • seasonality effect during national or school holidays in the first quarter and the third quarter, when generally more game players play our games; • a shortfall in our revenues relative to our forecasts and a decline in our operating results; and • economic conditions in general and specific to the online game industry and to China. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2009, we introduced an expansion pack for Mir II which was not well received by the game’s users and led to some of the game’s users reducing the amount of virtual items they purchase in the game. Primarily as a result of the introduction of that expansion pack, our net revenues in the first quarter of 2010 decreased by approximately 14% compared with the previous quarter. As a result, you should not rely on the year to year comparisons of our operating results or our operational metrics such as monthly active users, monthly paying users and average monthly revenue per paying user, in this annual report as indicators of our likely future performance. Our operating results may be below our expectations or the expectations of public market analysts and investors in one or more future quarters. If that occurs, the price of our ADSs could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Relating to the Reorganization and Our Continued Relationship with Shanda Interactive Our financial information included in this annual report may not be representative of our results as a standalone company. For the period from January 1, 2008 to June 30, 2008, our consolidated financial statements were prepared on a combined basis. We made numerous estimates, assumptions and allocations in our financial information because Shanda Interactive did not account for us, and we did not operate, as a standalone company for any period prior to July 1, 2008. Before Shanda Interactive transferred the assets and operations of its online game business to us effective July 1, 2008, the operations of our online game business had been carried out by Shanda Interactive. For the period from January 1, 2008 to June 30, 2008, our consolidated financial statements were prepared by combining the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows of the entities that were directly engaged in the online game business. With respect to operating expenses, an allocation of certain general corporate expenses of Shanda Interactive which are directly related to the online game business, such as corporate employee compensation costs, professional service fees and other expenses arising from the provisions of certain corporate functions including finance, legal, technology, investment and executive management, was also included. The allocation is based on a variety of factors depending upon the nature of the expenses being allocated, including the number of employees and historical revenue, as well as estimated time incurred by Shanda Interactive’s executives for the online game business. Although our management believes that the assumptions underlying our consolidated financial statements for the periods prior to the reorganization and the above allocations are reasonable, our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 may not be reflective of our result of operations, financial position and cash flows had we been operated as a standalone company during those periods. Therefore, our historical financial information may not be a reliable indicator of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future. 21 Table of Contents We may not be able to continue to receive the same level of support from Shanda Interactive. Our online game business has benefited significantly from Shanda Interactive’s brand name and strong market position in China. In addition, we have benefited from using the services of various affiliated entities under the common control of Shanda Interactive, including their integrated service platform, which provides Shanda Interactive’s large number of registered users with access to our online games, and their prepaid card distribution services. Although we have entered into a number of agreements with the various affiliated entities under the common control of Shanda Interactive that provide these services, and other related agreements with Shanda Interactive, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to receive the same level of support from Shanda Interactive in the future. Some of the terms of our agreements with Shanda Interactive and its affiliates may be less favorable to us than similar agreements negotiated between unaffiliated third parties. The various agreements that we have entered into with Shanda Interactive and its affiliates may be less favorable to us than would be the case if they were negotiated with unaffiliated third parties. For example, we have engaged Shanda Online and Shengjing to provide services that are critical to our business, including online billing and payment, user authentication, customer service, anti-fatigue compliance, prepaid card marketing and distribution and data support services. While we believe we benefit from these agreements, such agreements were negotiated with these entities while we remain controlled by Shanda Interactive and therefore may not reflect the terms that would have been reached by two unaffiliated parties negotiating at arm’s length. Moreover, pursuant to a master separation agreement with Shanda Interactive, we agreed to indemnify Shanda Interactive for, among other things, liabilities arising from litigation and other contingencies related to our online game business and assumed these liabilities as part of the reorganization. The allocation of assets and liabilities between Shanda Interactive and our company may not reflect the allocation that would have been reached by two unaffiliated parties. Moreover, so long as Shanda Interactive continues to control us, we may not be able to bring a legal claim against Shanda Interactive or other members of the Shanda Group in the event of a contractual breach, notwithstanding our contractual rights under the agreements described above and any other agreement we may enter into with Shanda Interactive from time to time. The non-compete and non-solicitation agreement with Shanda Interactive contains exceptions and may not be effective in preventing Shanda Interactive from engaging in certain transactions that directly or indirectly may compete with (or be perceived to be in competition with) our online game business. In connection with the reorganization, we entered into a non-compete and non-solicitation agreement (which was amended and restated on September 10, 2009), or the non-compete agreement with Shanda Interactive, pursuant to which Shanda Interactive has agreed, for a period of five years commencing July 1, 2008, not to engage, and to cause each other member of the Shanda Group (other than Shanda Games) not to engage, directly or indirectly, in the online game business anywhere in the world. This agreement is subject to important exceptions, namely, (1) certain of Shanda Interactive’s subsidiaries may continue to engage in their current PC network and e-sports platform businesses, online interactive music community, and online chess and board game platform business, (2) Shanda Interactive may acquire equity interests in a company that does not have more than 25.0% of its gross revenues (based on the latest annual audited financial statements of the investee company) attributable to the online game business and (3) Shanda Interactive may operate virtual communities with certain online game features, provided that such features do not constitute the core business model of such community. In addition, the non-compete agreement permits Shanda Interactive to acquire or invest in any third party engaging in the online game business if, after using its reasonable best efforts to make such investment opportunity available to us as required under the agreement, we do not pursue such opportunity; provided that Shanda Interactive’s equity interest in such third party shall not exceed 50%. Because of the exceptions described above, we cannot assure you that the non-compete agreement will be effective in preventing Shanda Interactive from engaging in certain conduct or transactions that directly or indirectly may compete with (or be perceived to be in competition with) our online game business. Even if there is no actual direct or indirect competition to our online game business, the perception by investors or securities analysts of possible competition from Shanda Interactive could adversely affect our business prospects and the price of our ADSs. Nor can we assure you that Shanda Interactive will not breach the non-compete agreement. Although non-compete agreements are generally enforceable under PRC laws, the PRC legal practice regarding the enforceability of such agreements is not as well-developed as those in countries such as the United States. Thus, we cannot assure you that a PRC court would enforce our rights under the non-compete agreement. Even if such agreement is enforced, we may not receive adequate remedies from courts in China or elsewhere. In addition, Shanda Interactive may not agree to extend or renew such non-compete agreement upon its expiration on June 30, 2013 and may decide to compete with us at that time. 22 Table of Contents Shanda Interactive will control the outcome of shareholder actions in our company. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, our ordinary shares are divided into Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Holders of Class A ordinary shares are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B ordinary shares are entitled to 10 votes per share. Shanda Interactive, through its wholly owned subsidiary Shanda SDG Investment Limited, or Shanda SDG, held 409,087,000 Class B ordinary shares, or approximately 73.01% of the combined total outstanding ordinary shares (representing approximately 96.44% of the total voting rights) in our company as of December 31, 2011. Shanda Interactive’s shareholding, in particular the greater voting rights of the Class B ordinary shares it beneficially owns, gives it the power to control any actions that require shareholder approval under Cayman Islands law, our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association and the NASDAQ requirements, including the election and removal of any member of our board of directors, mergers, consolidations and other business combinations, changes to our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the number of shares available for issuance under share incentive plans and the issuance of significant amounts of our ordinary shares in private placements. Due to the disparate voting rights attached to the two classes of our ordinary shares, Shanda Interactive could have sufficient voting rights to determine the outcome of all matters requiring shareholder approval even if it should, at some point in the future, hold considerably less than a majority of the combined total of our outstanding Class A and Class B ordinary shares. As a result of Shanda Interactive’s beneficial ownership of Class B ordinary shares, Shanda Interactive’s voting power may cause transactions to occur that might not be beneficial to you as a holder of our ADSs and may prevent transactions that would be beneficial to you. For example, Shanda Interactive’s voting power may prevent a transaction involving a change of control of us, including transactions in which you as a holder of our ADSs might otherwise receive a premium for your securities over the then-current market price. Similarly, Shanda Interactive may approve a merger or consolidation of our company which may result in you receiving a stake (either in the form of shares, debt obligations or other securities) in the surviving or new consolidated company which may not operate our current business model and dissenter rights may not be available to you in such an event. In addition, Shanda Interactive is not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in us to a third party and may do so without your approval. If Shanda Interactive sells its controlling interest in us to a third party, is acquired or otherwise undergoes a change of control, any acquiror or successor will be entitled to exercise voting control over the Class B ordinary shares held by Shanda Interactive and may do so in a manner that could vary significantly from that of Shanda Interactive. In addition, our director, Mr. Tianqiao Chen, owns a substantial equity interest in Shanda Interactive, serves as its chairman and chief executive officer and controls its corporate actions, and thereby controls the outcome of shareholder actions in our company indirectly through Shanda Interactive. Mr. Chen’s voting control could also cause transactions to occur that might not be beneficial to you as a holder of our ADSs and could prevent transactions that would be beneficial to you. 23 Table of Contents We may have conflicts of interest with Shanda Interactive. Because of Shanda Interactive’s controlling ownership interest in our company, we may not be able to resolve such conflicts on terms favorable to us. Conflicts of interest may arise between Shanda Interactive and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. In addition to conflicts of interest we have discussed in other risk factors, potential conflicts of interest that we have identified include the following: • Indemnification arrangements with Shanda Interactive. In connection with the reorganization, we have agreed to indemnify Shanda Interactive with respect to liabilities relating to our online game business, including operations of that business when it was a business unit of Shanda Interactive prior to the reorganization. These indemnification arrangements could result in our having interests that are adverse to those of Shanda Interactive, such as different interests with respect to settlement arrangements in the event of litigation. • Employee recruitment and retention. Because both Shanda Interactive and we operate primarily in Shanghai and are engaged in the interactive entertainment business, we may compete with Shanda Interactive in the hiring of new employees, in particular with respect to those involved in interactive entertainment content development and operation. While the non-compete agreement restricts Shanda Interactive from inducing any of our employees to terminate his or her employment with us, we cannot assure you that Shanda Interactive will not breach this agreement. • Our board members or executive officers may have conflicts of interest. Mr. Tianqiao Chen, Mr. Danian Chen, and Ms. Grace Wu, all of whom are our directors, currently also serve as Shanda Interactive’s chairman and chief executive officer, chief operating officer, and chief financial officer, respectively. Mr. Tianqiao Chen and Mr. Danian Chen also serve as directors of Shanda Interactive. These relationships could create perceived or actual conflicts of interest when these persons are faced with decisions with potentially different implications for Shanda Interactive and us. • Allocation of business opportunities. Business opportunities may arise that both we and Shanda Interactive find attractive, and which would complement our respective businesses. Although Shanda Interactive has agreed in the non-compete agreement with us not to acquire equity interests in third-party online game businesses without first using its reasonable best efforts to make such investment opportunities available to us, subject to certain limited exceptions, we may not be able to pursue the business opportunities effectively if Shanda Interactive decides to take advantage of such opportunities itself notwithstanding such agreement. • Developing business relationships with Shanda Interactive’s competitors. So long as Shanda Interactive remains our controlling shareholder, we may be limited in our ability to do business with its competitors, such as other interactive entertainment media companies in China. Although our company is a standalone entity, we expect to operate, for as long as Shanda Interactive is our controlling shareholder, as a part of the Shanda Group. Shanda Interactive may from time to time make strategic decisions that it believes are in the best interests of the Shanda Group as a whole. These decisions may be different from the decisions that we would have made on our own. Shanda Interactive’s decisions with respect to us or our business may be resolved in ways that favor Shanda Interactive and therefore Shanda Interactive’s own shareholders, which may not coincide with the interests of our other shareholders. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and even if we do so, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated shareholder. Even if both parties seek to transact business on terms intended to approximate those that could have been achieved among unaffiliated parties, this may not succeed in practice. 24 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Regulation of Our Business and to Our Structure If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our business do not comply with its restrictions on foreign investment in the online game industry, we could be subject to severe penalties. Various regulations in China currently restrict or prevent foreign and foreign-invested entities from engaging in telecommunication services in China, including operating online games. Since we are a Cayman Islands exempted company and therefore are a foreign or foreign-invested enterprise under PRC law, neither we nor our PRC subsidiaries are eligible to hold a license to operate online games in China. In order to comply with the foreign ownership restrictions, we operate our online game business in China through our VIEs, all of which are wholly owned by either PRC citizens or PRC companies. Our PRC subsidiaries have entered into a series of contractual arrangements with our VIEs and their respective shareholders. As a result of these contractual arrangements, we are considered the primary beneficiary of our VIEs and consolidate the results of operations of our VIEs in our financial statements. We believe the ownership structure and the contractual arrangements between our PRC subsidiaries, on the one hand, and our VIEs and their respective shareholders on the other hand, comply with current PRC laws and regulations in all material respects. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations. Accordingly, PRC government agencies may ultimately take a view that is inconsistent with our own. On July 13, 2006, MIIT issued the Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Foreign Investment in Value-added Telecommunication Services, or the MIIT 2006 Circular. The MIIT 2006 Circular provides that any domain name or trademark used by a value-added telecommunication carrier shall be legally owned by such carrier or its shareholders. The MIIT 2006 Circular also provides that the operation site and facilities of a value-added telecommunication carrier shall be installed within the scope as prescribed by operating licenses obtained by the carrier and shall correspond to the value-added telecommunication services that the carrier has been approved to provide. Due to a lack of interpretative materials from the authorities, it is uncertain whether MIIT would consider our corporate structure and the contractual arrangements between our PRC subsidiaries and our VIEs as a kind of foreign investment in telecommunication services. Therefore, it is unclear what impact the MIIT 2006 Circular might have on us or the other Chinese internet companies that have adopted the same or similar corporate structures and contractual arrangements as ours. On September 28, 2009, the General Administration of Press and Publications, or GAPP, and several other government agencies jointly issued a circular, or the GAPP 2009 Circular, which restates the general principle espoused in recently promulgated regulations that foreign investment is not permitted in online game operating businesses in China. The GAPP 2009 Circular prohibits foreign investors from participating in online game operating businesses via wholly owned, equity joint venture or cooperative joint venture investments in China, and from controlling and participating in such businesses directly or indirectly through contractual or technical support arrangements. In the event of a violation of these provisions, GAPP shall, in conjunction with the relevant government agencies of the PRC, investigate and handle the same in accordance with the law. In serious cases, the relevant licenses and registrations shall be terminated. However, as a detailed interpretation of the GAPP 2009 Circular has not been issued, it is not yet clear how this circular will be implemented. Furthermore, as certain other government agencies such as the Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, the Ministry of Culture, or the MOC, and MIIT did not join GAPP in issuing the GAPP 2009 Circular, the views of these authorities are uncertain in clarifying the scope of implementation and enforcement of the GAPP Circular 2009. 25 Table of Contents We cannot be sure that the PRC government would view our operating arrangements to be in compliance with PRC licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, including without limitation the requirements described in the MIIT 2006 Circular and the GAPP 2009 Circular, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. For example, as some of the domain names and trademarks that we use in our operations are not owned by our VIEs or their respective shareholders, we may be in violation of the provisions of the MIIT 2006 Circular or the GAPP 2009 Circular. If any of our businesses is determined not to be in compliance with the MIIT 2006 Circular or the GAPP 2009 Circular, the PRC government could take a number of regulatory or enforcement actions that would be harmful to our business, including but not limited to: levying fines, revoking our business and operating licenses, requiring us to discontinue or restrict our operations, blocking our website, requiring us to restructure our business or imposing additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply. We may also encounter difficulties in obtaining performance under or enforcement of these VIE contracts. Any of these actions could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer and the market price of our ADSs to decline. The contractual arrangements with our VIEs and their respective shareholders may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership. We rely on contractual arrangements with our VIEs and their respective shareholders to operate our business. These contractual arrangements are intended to provide us with effective control over our VIEs, but they may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing us with such control. See “Related Party Transactions” in Item 7 of this annual report for a description of these contractual arrangements. Direct ownership would allow us, for example, to directly or indirectly exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in the boards of directors of our VIEs, which in turn could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level. Because we rely on these contractual arrangements to effect control and management of our VIEs, we are exposed to the risk that the shareholders of our VIEs may fail to perform his or her respective obligations under these contractual arrangements. In addition, the shareholders of our VIEs may potentially have a conflict of interest with us, and they may breach their contracts with us or cause such contracts to be amended in a manner contrary to the interest of our company, if they believe such action furthers their own interest, or if they otherwise act in bad faith. If any of the foregoing were to occur, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend significant resources to enforce these contractual arrangements, including initiating legal proceedings, which involve significant uncertainty. Such disputes and proceedings may significantly disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our ability to control our VIEs. In addition, as all of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through either arbitration or litigation in the PRC, they would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements could be further limited. Furthermore, these contracts may not be enforceable in China if PRC government agencies or courts take a view that such contracts contravene PRC laws and regulations or are otherwise not enforceable for public policy reasons. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert effective control over our VIEs, and our ability to conduct our business may be materially and adversely affected. The arrangements with our VIEs may be reviewed by the PRC tax authorities for transfer pricing adjustments. We could face material adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements between our PRC subsidiaries and our VIEs were not entered into based on arm’s length negotiations. Although we based our contractual arrangements on those of similar businesses, if the PRC tax authorities determine that these contracts were not entered into on an arm’s length basis, they may adjust our income and expenses for PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could adversely affect us by increasing our VIEs’ tax liabilities without reducing our PRC subsidiaries’ tax liabilities, which could further result in late payment fees and other penalties to our VIEs for under-paid taxes. As a result, any transfer pricing adjustment could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Our holding company structure may restrict our ability to receive dividends from, or transfer funds to, our PRC subsidiaries and our VIEs, which could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and reallocate funds among our Chinese entities in a timely manner. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and conduct substantially all of our operations through our PRC subsidiaries and our VIEs. We may rely on dividends and other distributions on equity by our PRC subsidiaries for our cash requirements, including the funds to pay dividends on the Class A ordinary shares underlying our ADSs and to service any debt we may incur or financing we may need for our operations. If any of our PRC subsidiaries incurs its own debt in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict such PRC subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to our HK subsidiaries and to us. Furthermore, under PRC laws and regulations, each PRC subsidiary is only permitted to pay dividends out of its retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC law, each PRC subsidiary is also required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves until the cumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends, loans or advances. Each PRC subsidiary may also allocate a portion of its after-tax profits, as determined by its board of directors, to its staff welfare and bonus funds, which may not be distributed to us. As a result of these and other restrictions under PRC laws and regulations, each PRC subsidiary is restricted from transferring a portion of its assets to us as dividends, loans or advances, which restricted portion amounted to approximately RMB 1,058.4 million (US$168.2 million), or 31.6% of our total consolidated net assets as of December 31, 2011. Any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us as dividends, loans or advances could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could benefit our businesses, pay debt or dividends, and otherwise fund and conduct our business. In addition, any funds we transfer to our PRC subsidiaries, either as a shareholder loan or as an increase in registered capital, is subject to registration with, and approval by, the relevant PRC government agencies, including the administration of foreign exchange. Our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs are prohibited by PRC law from directly lending money to each other. Therefore, it is difficult to change our capital expenditure plans once the relevant funds have been remitted from our company to our PRC subsidiaries. These limitations on the free flow of funds between us and our PRC subsidiaries could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and reallocate funds among our PRC subsidiaries on a timely basis. Moreover, according to a circular jointly issued by the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation on September 19, 2008, the debt-to-equity ratio of a non-financial institution may not exceed 2:1 unless the shareholder loan in question can meet certain conditions. Although there is uncertainty at this time as to how the circular will be interpreted and implemented, such circular may have a negative impact on our PRC subsidiaries’ abilities to obtain loans from their shareholders. 27 Table of Contents Our existing contractual arrangements with our VIEs and their shareholders may be subject to national security review by MOFCOM, and the failure to receive the national security review could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and reputation and trading price of our ADSs. In August 2011, the MOFCOM promulgated the Rules of the Ministry of Commerce on the Implementation of the Security Review System for Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the MOFCOM Security Review Rules, to implement the Notice of the General Office of the State Council on Establishing Security Review System for Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors promulgated on February 3, 2011, or Circular 6. Under the MOFCOM Security Review Rules, a national security review is required for certain mergers and acquisitions by foreign investors that raise concerns regarding national defense and security. Foreign investors are prohibited from circumventing the national security review requirements by structuring transactions through proxies, trusts, indirect investments, leases, loans, control through contractual arrangements or offshore transactions. The application and interpretation of the MOFCOM Security Review Rules remain unclear. We have concluded that there is no need to submit our existing contractual arrangements with our VIEs and their shareholders to the MOFCOM for national security review because, among other reasons, (i) we gained de facto control over our VIEs prior to the effectiveness of Circular 6 and the MOFCOM Security Review Rules; and (ii) there are currently no explicit provisions or official interpretations indicating that our current businesses fall within the scope of the national security review rules. However, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of the MOFCOM Security Review Rules, and any new laws, rules, regulations or detailed implementation measures in any form relating to such rules. Therefore, we cannot assure that the relevant PRC regulatory authorities, such as the MOFCOM, would not ultimately reach a different conclusion. If the MOFCOM or other PRC regulatory authority determines that we need to submit the existing contractual arrangements with our VIEs and their shareholders for national security review, we may face sanctions by the MOFCOM or other PRC regulatory authorities. These sanctions may include revoking the business or operating licenses of our PRC subsidiaries or our VIEs, discontinuing or restricting our operations in China, confiscating our income or the income of our PRC subsidiaries or our VIEs, requiring us to undergo a costly and disruptive restructuring and taking other regulatory or enforcement actions, such as levying fines, that could be harmful to our business. Our operations may be adversely affected by anti-fatigue-related regulations. The PRC government may decide to adopt more stringent policies to monitor the online game industry as a result of adverse public reaction to perceived addiction to online games, particularly by minors. On April 15, 2007, eight PRC government agencies, including GAPP, the Ministry of Education and MIIT, jointly issued a notice requiring all Chinese online game operators to adopt an anti-fatigue system in an effort to curb addiction to online games by minors. Under the anti-fatigue system, three hours or less of continuous play is defined to be healthy, three to five hours is defined to be fatiguing, and five hours or more is defined to be unhealthy. Game operators are required to reduce the value of game benefits for minor game players by half when those game players reach the fatigue level, and to zero when they reach the unhealthy level. In addition, online game players in China are now required to register their identity card numbers before they can play an online game, which helps game operators identify which game players are minors. These restrictions could limit our ability to increase our business among minors. Furthermore, if these restrictions were expanded to apply to adult game players in the future, our business could be materially and adversely affected. On July 1, 2011, eight PRC government agencies, including GAPP, the Ministry of Education and MIIT, promulgated the Circular on Implementing the Verification of Real-name Registration for the Anti-Fatigue System of Online Games, or the Real-name Registration Circular, to strengthen the implementation of the anti-fatigue system and the real-name registration system. The Real-name Registration Circular indicates that the National Citizen Identity Information Center of the Ministry of Public Security shall verify identity information of game players submitted by online game operators. In addition, this circular imposes more stringent penalties on online game operators failing to implement the anti-fatigue and real-name registration systems properly and effectively, including suspension or termination of online game services. 28 Table of Contents Intensified government regulation of internet cafes could restrict our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and expand our game player base. Internet cafes are one of the primary places where our games are played. The PRC government has tightened its regulation and supervision of internet cafes since 2001 and closed a large number of unlicensed internet cafes. The PRC government has also imposed higher capital and facility requirements for the establishment of internet cafes. Furthermore, the PRC government’s policy, which encourages the development of a limited number of national and regional internet cafe chains and discourages the establishment of independent internet cafes, may slow down the growth of internet cafes. In February 2007, several government agencies jointly issued a circular suspending the issuance of new internet cafe licenses. Since this ban was imposed in 2007, to our knowledge, local governments have not issued new internet cafe licenses and it is unclear when local governments will start issuing new licenses again. In March 2010, MOC issued a circular to increase the penalties for internet cafes that admit minors. According to this circular, among other things, the governments may revoke an internet cafe’s internet culture operation license if that internet cafe allows three or more minors to enter and use the internet at one time. Government agencies may from time to time impose stricter requirements, such as the customers’ age limit and hours of operation, among others, as a result of the occurrence and perception of, and the media attention on, gang fights, arson and other incidents in or related to internet cafes. Since a substantial portion of our users play our games in internet cafes, any reduction in the number, or slowdown in the growth, of internet cafes in China, or any new regulatory restrictions on their operations, could limit our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and expand our game player base, thereby adversely affecting our business and results of operations, as well as growth prospects. The PRC government may prevent us from distributing, and we may be subject to liability for, content deemed to be inappropriate. China has enacted laws and regulations governing internet access and the distribution of news, information or other content, as well as products and services, through the internet. The PRC government prohibits information that it believes violates PRC law from being distributed through the internet. MIIT, GAPP and MOC have promulgated regulations that prohibit games from being distributed through the internet if the games contain content that is found to, among other things, propagate obscenity, gambling or violence, instigate crimes, undermine public morality or the cultural traditions of China, or compromise state security or secrets. In addition, certain PRC social organizations have recently discussed the possibility of implementing a rating system for online games. The effect that such a system could have on our business is unclear. If any games we offer were deemed to violate any such content restrictions, we would not be able to obtain the necessary government approval, may not be able to continue such offerings and/or could be subject to penalties, including confiscation of income, fines, suspension of business and revocation of our license for operating online games, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be subject to potential liability for unlawful actions of our users or for content we distribute that is deemed inappropriate. We may be required to delete content that violates PRC law and report content that we suspect may violate PRC law. It may be difficult to determine the type of content that may result in liability for us, and if we are wrong, we may be prevented from operating our games or offering other services in China. 29 Table of Contents We may be required to reapply for approvals for online games licensed from overseas licensors. MOC issued a Circular Concerning the Examination and Declaration of Imported Online Game Products on April 24, 2009. “Imported online games” refers to online games that are licensed from licensors outside of China. According to this circular, in the event of a change of the operator of an imported online game, the game’s existing import approval will be automatically revoked and the new operator must apply to MOC for a new approval for the same game. As this circular is newly issued, it remains unclear how and to what extent this circular will be implemented or enforced. On September 28, 2009, GAPP, together with two other government agencies, issued a circular (Xin Chu Lian [2009] No. 13) which contains a similar provision to the MOC circular mentioned above. The GAPP circular also requires that, in the event of a change of the operator of an imported online game, the new operator must apply to GAPP for a new approval for the same game, and the operation of the online game should be suspended until GAPP approves the change in operator. We currently operate substantially all of our imported online games under import approvals granted by GAPP and MOC to Shanda Networking, an affiliated entity under the common control of Shanda Interactive. Under the above referenced circulars, we are required to reapply to GAPP and MOC for approvals for our imported online games. We are committed to complying with the requirements of these circulars. However, we cannot assure you that we will succeed in obtaining all the approvals as required by these circulars in time or at all. If we fail to comply with the requirements of these circulars or fail to obtain all the approvals for our imported online games, we may be subject to fines, revocation of the relevant operating licenses, the discontinuation or restrictions on our operations or other sanctions. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Currently there is no law or regulation specifically governing virtual asset property rights and therefore, it is not clear what liabilities, if any, online game operators may have for virtual assets. In the course of playing online games, some virtual assets, such as special equipment, player experience grades and other features of our users’ game characters, are acquired and accumulated. Such virtual assets can be important to online game players and have monetary value and in some cases are sold among players for actual money. In practice, virtual assets can be lost for various reasons, often through unauthorized use of the game account of one user by other users and occasionally through data loss caused by a delay of network service, a network crash or hacking activities. Currently, there is no PRC law or regulation specifically governing virtual asset property rights. As a result, there is uncertainty as to who is the legal owner of virtual assets, whether and how the ownership of virtual assets is protected by law, and whether an operator of online games such as us would have any liability to game players or other interested parties (whether in contract, tort or otherwise) for loss of such virtual assets. In case of a loss of virtual assets, we may be sued by our game players and held liable for damages, which may negatively affect our reputation and business, financial condition and results of operation. Restrictions on virtual currency may adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our online game revenues are collected through the sale of our prepaid cards or online sale of game points. The Notice on the Reinforcement of the Administration of Internet Cafés and Online Games, or the Internet Cafés Notice, issued by MOC on February 15, 2007, directs the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, to strengthen the administration of virtual currency in online games to avoid any adverse impact on the PRC economy and financial system. The Internet Cafés Notice provides that the total amount of virtual currency issued by online game operators and the amount purchased by individual users should be strictly limited, and virtual currency should only be used to purchase virtual items. 30 Table of Contents On June 4, 2009, MOC and MOFCOM jointly issued the Notice on Strengthening the Administration of Online Game Virtual Currency, or the Virtual Currency Notice. In the Virtual Currency Notice, the PRC government for the first time define “Virtual Currency” as a type of virtual exchange instrument issued by online game operators, purchased directly or indirectly by the game user by exchanging legal currency at a certain exchange rate, saved outside the game programs, stored in servers provided by the online game operators in electronic record format and represented by specific numeric units. In addition, the Virtual Currency Notice categorizes companies involved with virtual currency as either issuers or trading platforms and prohibits companies from operating as both an issuer and as a trading platform. The Virtual Currency Notice also requires online game operators to report the total amount of their issued virtual currencies on a quarterly basis and game operators are prohibited from issuing disproportionate amounts of virtual currencies in order to generate revenues. We issue online game virtual currency to game players for them to purchase various virtual items or time units to be used in our online games. Shanghai Shulong, Chengdu Simo, Chengdu Aurora and Shanghai Hongli have obtained approval from MOC to issue online game virtual currency, as required under the Virtual Currency Notice. Although we believe we do not offer online game virtual currency transaction services, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not take a view contrary to ours. For example, certain virtual items we issue (such as coupons) are transferable and exchangeable in the games. If the PRC regulatory authorities deem such transfer or exchange to be a virtual currency transaction, aside from being engaged in the issuance of virtual currency, we may also be deemed to be providing transaction platform services that enable the trading of such virtual currency. In that event, we may be required to cease either our virtual currency issuance activities or such deemed “transaction service” activities and may be subject to certain penalties, including but not limited to mandatory corrective measures and fines. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, the Virtual Currency Notice prohibits online game operators from creating game features that involve the direct payment of cash or virtual currency by players to increase their chance to win virtual items or virtual currency based on random selection through a lucky draw, wager or lottery. The notice also prohibits game operators from issuing virtual currency to game players through means other than purchases with legal currency. It is unclear whether these restrictions would apply to certain aspects of our online games. For example, certain of our games contain features known as “treasure boxes.” Players may use “yuanbao,” a type of virtual item they obtain in the games, to acquire keys to open treasure boxes that, if opened, award the player with rewards, such as game points or virtual items. As no cash or virtual currency is directly paid by the players in opening treasure boxes, we believe this feature is distinct from those prohibited by the Virtual Currency Notice. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not take a view contrary to ours and deem such feature as prohibited by the Virtual Currency Notice, thereby subjecting us to penalties, including mandatory corrective measures and fines. In addition, since we believe many of our game players find treasure boxes to be an enjoyable feature of our games, if we are required to eliminate this from our games, our games could be less attractive to players. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The Virtual Currency Notice also requires online game operators to keep transaction data records for no less than 180 days and prohibits them from providing virtual currency trading services to minors. In order to comply with the requirements of the Virtual Currency Notice, it may be necessary for us to change our virtual currency distribution channels, and to retain transaction records for a longer period than we otherwise would. These restrictions may result in higher costs of our online game operation and lower sales of our prepaid cards or game points, which may have an adverse effect on our games revenue. 31 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected by public opinion and governmental policies in China as well as in other jurisdictions where we license our games to third parties. Due to a relatively high degree of game player loyalty, easy access to personal computers and internet cafés, and the lack of other appealing forms of entertainment in China, many teenagers in China frequently play online games. This may result in these teenagers spending less time on or refraining from other activities, including education, vocational training, and sports, which could result in adverse public reaction and stricter government regulation. For example, the PRC government has promulgated anti-fatigue-related regulations to limit the amount of time minors can play online games. See “—Our operations may be adversely affected by anti-fatigue-related regulations.” The PRC government has also begun to tighten its regulations on internet cafés, currently one of the primary places where online games are played, including limiting the issuance of internet café operating licenses and imposing higher capital and facility requirements for the establishment of internet cafés. See “—Intensified government regulation of internet cafes could restrict our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and expand our game player base.” Adverse public opinion could discourage game players from playing our games, and could result in government regulations that impose additional limitations on the operations of online games as well as the game players’ access to online games. For example, in January 2011, MIIT and seven other central government agencies jointly issued a circular under which online game operators are required to adopt various measures to maintain a system to communicate with the parents or other guardians of minors playing online games and are required to monitor the activities of the minors and suspend their accounts if so requested by their parents or guardians. We believe stricter government regulations, such as regulations imposing stricter age and hour limits on internet cafés, limiting the issuance of virtual currency by online game operators or the amount of virtual currency that can be purchased by an individual game player, or extending anti-fatigue-related regulations to adults, could be implemented in the future. Such adverse public opinion and tightened government regulations could materially and adversely affect our business prospects and our ability to maintain or increase revenues. In addition, the PRC State Administration of Taxation previously announced that it will tax game players on the income derived from the trading of virtual currencies at the rate of 20%. However, it is currently unclear how the tax will be collected or if there will be any effect on our game players or our business. Our plan to continue to license our games in international markets may also be adversely affected by public opinion or government policies in markets in which we license our games. For example, South Korea requires online game operators, such as Actoz, to obtain ratings classifications for online games and implement procedures to restrict minors from accessing online games. More recently, the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism in South Korea has enacted rules which require certain online game operators to automatically log off underage users of certain online games and to slow down the internet speed for underage users who have been logged on continuously for too many hours. The laws and regulations governing the online game industry and related businesses in China are developing and subject to future changes. If we or any of our VIEs fail to obtain or maintain all applicable permits and approvals, our business and operations would be materially and adversely affected. The internet industry, including the operation of online games, in China is highly regulated by the PRC government. Various regulatory authorities of the central PRC government, such as the State Council, MIIT, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or SAIC, MOC, GAPP, the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, and the Ministry of Public Security, are empowered to promulgate and implement regulations governing various aspects of the internet and the online game industry. Our VIEs are required to obtain applicable permits or approvals from different regulatory authorities in order to provide their services. For example, an internet content provider, or ICP, must obtain a value-added telecommunications business operation license, or ICP license, from MIIT or its local office in order to engage in any commercial ICP operations within China. An online game operator must also obtain an internet culture operation license from MOC and an internet publishing license from GAPP in order to operate and distribute games through the internet. Shanghai Shulong currently holds an inter-regional ICP license, an internet culture operation license, and an internet publishing license. Each of Chengdu Aurora, Chengdu Simo and Shanghai Hongli currently holds a regional ICP license, an internet culture operation license and an internet publishing license. Each of Tianjin Youji and Chengdu Youji currently holds a regional ICP license. While we believe that we comply in all material respects with all applicable PRC laws and regulations currently in effect, we cannot assure you that we will not be found in violation of any current or future PRC laws and regulations. 32 Table of Contents If GAPP and other competent PRC regulatory authorities consider that we were operating without proper license or approval, they may, among other things, levy fines, confiscate our income, revoke our businesses and require us to discontinue our business or impose restrictions on the affected portion of our business. In addition, the PRC government may promulgate new laws and regulations that require additional licenses or imposes additional restrictions on the operation of any part of our business. Any of these actions may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. Stricter government supervision of the online game industry may adversely affect our business and operations. Under the GAPP Notice, all online game operators must obtain an internet publishing license to provide online game services. In addition, approvals from GAPP are required when game operators release new versions or expansion packs, or make any changes to the originally approved online game. On July 1, 2009, GAPP issued the Notice on Strengthening the Approval and Administration of Imported Online Games, which requires game operators to obtain the approval of GAPP to import online games from offshore copyright owners. In the event of any failure to meet the above-mentioned requirements, an operator may face heavy penalties, such as being ordered to stop operating online games, or having its business license revoked. Our online game business may be adversely affected by these two GAPP notices. The launch of expansion packs and imported games might be delayed because of the extra approval required. Such delay in releasing expansion packs or imported games may result in higher costs for our online game operation and have an adverse effect on our game revenue. On June 3, 2010, MOC issued the Interim Measures for Online Games Administration, or the Online Game Measures, aiming to further strengthen MOC’s supervision of the online game industry. The Online Game Measures provide that all domestic online games must be filed with MOC, while all imported online games are subject to a content review prior to their launch. If a substantial change (for example, any significant modification to a game’s storyline, language, tasks, or trading system) is made to an existing imported or domestic online game, it will be subject to a new content review. Our online game business may be adversely affected by the Online Game Measures. The Online Game Measures do not set forth any specific procedure for the required filing and content review procedures for online games and therefore may cause delay when we try to file or apply for content review with MOC. In addition, for our imported licensed games, the requirement for prior approval of any substantial change may cause delay in releasing expansion packs, which may result in higher costs of our online game operation and have an adverse effect on our revenues. Because there is ambiguity in the scope of the authority and the roles and responsibilities of the 22 government agencies with oversight of the online game industry, we may face stricter scrutiny of the day-to-day operations of our online game business. If any of our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs cannot comply with any of the stipulations of any PRC government agencies regarding the online game industry, we may be subject to various penalties and our online game business may be adversely affected. We may be subject to, and may expend significant resources in defending against, government actions and civil suits based on the advertising content provided in our virtual advertising space; we may also be penalized by the government agency for such content. Shanghai Shengyue Advertisement Co., Ltd., or Shengyue, a wholly owned subsidiary of Shanda Interactive, acts as our advertising agent to sell the virtual advertising space in the online games we operate in China to third-party advertisers. Civil claims may be filed against Shengyue or us for fraud, defamation, subversion, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other violations due to the nature and content of the information displayed in the virtual advertising space in our games. Offensive and objectionable content and legal standards for defamation and fraud in China are less defined than in other more developed countries and we may not be able to properly screen out unlawful content. If such activities result in damages to any third party or violates any other regulation related to advertising business, PRC government agencies may penalize us by revoking our game license, imposing fines, suspending our business license or imposing criminal liability on us, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 33 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the People’s Republic of China Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Most of our business operations are conducted in China and most of our revenues are generated in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, the level of development, the growth rate, the control of foreign exchange, and the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past 30 years, the growth has been uneven geographically among various sectors of the economy, and during different periods. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. While some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us if the measures reduce the consumable income of our game players. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to us. The PRC legal system is relatively new, and differs from the legal system of many developed countries in material ways, including the degree of certainty with respect to how government agencies will interpret and enforce existing laws and regulations. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing general economic and business matters. The overall effect of legislation since 1979 has been a significant enhancement of the protections afforded to various forms of foreign-invested enterprises in China. Each of our PRC subsidiaries is a wholly foreign owned enterprise, or WFOE, which is an enterprise incorporated in China and wholly owned by foreign investors. Our PRC subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China in general and laws and regulations applicable to WFOEs in particular. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are constantly changing and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties, which could limit the legal protections available to us. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the internet, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. Furthermore, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may subject us to fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government, including restrictions on our PRC subsidiaries’ abilities to pay dividends or make distributions to us and our ability to increase our investment in our PRC subsidiaries. In October 2005, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, promulgated the Circular on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents’ Corporate Financing and Roundtrip Investment Through Offshore Special Purpose Vehicles, or Circular 75, which states that if PRC residents use assets or equity interests in their PRC entities as capital contributions to establish offshore companies or inject assets or equity interests of their PRC entities into offshore companies to raise capital overseas, they must register with local SAFE branches with respect to their overseas investments in offshore companies. They must also file amendments to their registrations if their offshore companies experience material events involving capital variation, such as changes in share capital, share transfers, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions, long-term equity or debt investments or uses of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. Under this regulation, their failure to comply with the registration procedures set forth in such regulation may result in fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government, including restrictions being imposed on the foreign exchange activities of the relevant PRC entity, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent, as well as restrictions on the capital inflow from the offshore entity to the PRC entity. In May 2011, SAFE issued the Operating Procedures on Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Residents Engaging in Financing and Round-trip Investment through Offshore Special Purpose Vehicles, or Circular 19, which provides detailed procedures and guidance for SAFE registration process under Circular 75. 34 Table of Contents We are committed to complying with and to ensuring that our shareholders who are subject to the regulations comply with the relevant rules. However, we cannot assure you that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will comply with our request to make any applicable registrations or comply with other requirements required by Circular 75 and Circular 19 or other related rules. Any future failure by any of our shareholders who is a PRC resident, or controlled by a PRC resident, to comply with relevant requirements under these regulations could subject us to fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government, including restrictions on our PRC subsidiaries’ abilities to pay dividends or make distributions to us and our ability to increase our investment in our PRC subsidiaries. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our capital effectively. Since a significant amount of our future revenues will be denominated in Renminbi, the existing and any future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize capital generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside of China, if any, or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. The Renminbi is currently freely convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, our PRC subsidiaries may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions,” including payment of dividends to our HK subsidiaries and payment of license fees to international game licensors, and our VIEs may purchase foreign exchange for payment of license fees to international game licensors without the approval of SAFE. Our PRC subsidiaries may also retain foreign exchange in its current account, subject to a ceiling approved by SAFE, to satisfy foreign exchange liabilities or to pay dividends. However, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC government agencies will not limit or eliminate our PRC subsidiaries’ abilities to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account are subject to limitations and require registration with or approval by the relevant PRC government agencies. In particular, if we finance our PRC subsidiaries by foreign currency loans, those loans cannot exceed certain statutory limits and must be registered with SAFE, and if we finance our PRC subsidiaries by capital contributions, those capital contributions must be approved by MOFCOM. In addition, because of the regulatory issues related to foreign currency loans to, and foreign investment in, domestic PRC enterprises, we may not be able to finance our VIEs’ operations by loans or capital contributions. We cannot assure you that we can make these governmental registrations or obtain relevant approvals on a timely basis, if at all. These limitations could affect the ability of these entities to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, and could adversely affect our business and financial conditions. 35 Table of Contents Fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, was historically based on exchange rates set by the PBOC. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi solely to the U.S. dollar. Under this revised policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. Following the removal of the U.S. dollar peg, the Renminbi has appreciated more than 23% against the U.S. dollar as of the end of 2011. Substantially all of our revenues and costs are denominated in Renminbi. Any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially inflate our revenues and earnings as expressed in U.S. dollars without reflecting an underlying change in our results of operations. The discontinuation, reduction or delay of any of the preferential tax treatments or the government financial incentives currently available to us in the PRC could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under the new enterprise income tax law which became effective January 1, 2008, or the EIT Law, both foreign-invested enterprises and domestic enterprises are subject to a unified 25% income tax rate. Under the EIT Law, preferential tax treatments will be granted to enterprises that conduct business in certain encouraged sectors and to enterprises that qualify as “high and new technology enterprises,” a status reassessed every three years. Shengqu and Chengdu Aurora were re-approved for high and new technology enterprises status in 2011 and are therefore entitled to a 15.0% preferential income tax rate for the three-year period ending December 31, 2013. Lansha was also recognized as a high and new technology enterprise in 2010. In addition, an enterprise is entitled to a 10.0% income tax rate for the year in which it is recognized as a “national key software enterprise,” a status reassessed every year. Shengqu was recognized as a national key software enterprise for 2008 and 2009. We cannot assure you that our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs will be able to continue to qualify for preferential tax treatments. For example, Shengqu was not recognized as a national key software enterprise in 2010 or 2011, and Shanghai Shulong, a company previously recognized as a high and new technology enterprise, was unable to renew its favorable tax status in 2011. If any of our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs that has qualified for preferential tax treatments fails to continue to qualify for such treatment, our income tax expenses would increase, which would have a material adverse effect on our net income and results of operations. For additional details on the preferential tax status, see Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Taxation—PRC Enterprise Income Tax.” In 2009, 2010 and 2011, we received financial incentives from the government in the aggregate amount of RMB 177.0 million, RMB 232.3 million and RMB 185.0 million (US$29.4 million), respectively, which were calculated with reference to taxable revenues and taxable income. To be eligible for the government financial incentives, we are required to continue to meet a number of financial and non-financial criteria and, even if we meet these criteria, the grant of any incentive is still subject to the discretion of the municipal government. Moreover, the central government or municipal government could determine at any time to eliminate or reduce these government financial incentives. Since the government has discretion in the timing of payment and the amount of the financial incentive, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to enjoy these government financial incentives or receive such incentives promptly. The discontinuation, reduction or delay of these government financial incentives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 36 Table of Contents There are significant uncertainties under the EIT Law relating to our PRC enterprise income tax liabilities. Under the EIT Law, the profits of a foreign invested enterprise arising in 2008 and onwards which are distributed to its immediate holding company outside the PRC will be subject to a withholding tax rate of 10%. Pursuant to a special arrangement between Hong Kong and the PRC, such rate is lowered to 5% if a Hong Kong resident enterprise owns over 25% of the equity interest of the PRC company. However, according to a tax circular issued by the State Administration of Taxation in February 2009, if the main purpose of an offshore arrangement is to obtain a preferential tax treatment, the PRC tax authorities have the discretion to adjust the preferential tax rate enjoyed by the relevant offshore entity. In addition, under the EIT Law, enterprises established under the laws of jurisdictions outside China with their “de facto management bodies” located within China may be considered to be PRC tax resident enterprises for tax purposes. Although we are a Cayman Islands company and our HK subsidiaries own 100% of the equity interests of all of our PRC subsidiaries, the PRC tax authorities may regard the main purpose of our HK subsidiaries as obtaining a lower withholding tax rate of 5%. As a result, the PRC tax authorities could impose a higher withholding tax rate on dividends received by our HK subsidiaries from our PRC subsidiaries. In addition, a substantial majority of the members of our management team, as well as the management team of our HK subsidiaries, are located in China. Under current PRC laws and regulations, it is uncertain whether we and/or our HK subsidiaries would be deemed to be PRC tax resident enterprises under the EIT Law. If we or our HK subsidiaries are deemed to be a PRC tax resident enterprise, our global income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25%, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions if we or our Chinese employees fail to comply with PRC regulations relating to employee stock options granted by overseas listed companies to PRC citizens. On December 25, 2006, the PBOC issued the Administration Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange Control, and its Implementation Rules were issued by SAFE on January 5, 2007. Under these regulations, all foreign exchange matters involved in an employee stock holding plan, stock option plan or similar plan in which a PRC citizen participates, requires approval from SAFE or its authorized branch. On March 28, 2007, SAFE issued the Application Procedure for Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plans or Stock Option Plans of Overseas Listed Companies, or Notice 78. Under Notice 78, PRC individuals who participate in an employee stock option holding plan or a stock option plan of an overseas listed company are required, through a PRC domestic agent or PRC subsidiary of the overseas listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our Chinese employees who have been granted restricted shares or stock options pursuant to our share incentive plan are subject to Notice 78. However, in practice, there are significant uncertainties with regard to the interpretation and implementation of Notice 78. Although we have registered our employee stock holding plans and stock option plans with SAFE in accordance with the requirements of Notice 78, we cannot provide any assurance that we or our Chinese employees will continue to be able to satisfy the registration requirements of Notice 78. In particular, if we and/or our Chinese employees fail to comply with the provisions of Notice 78 in the future, we and/or our Chinese employees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions imposed by SAFE or other PRC government agencies, as a result of which our business operations and employee option plans could be materially and adversely affected. 37 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our ADSs The price of our ADSs has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile, which may make it difficult for holders to resell the ADSs when desired or at attractive prices. The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Since we completed our initial public offering on September 30, 2009, the market price of our ADSs on the NASDAQ Global Select Market has ranged from US$3.46 to US$13.00 per ADS and the last reported closing price on March 13, 2012 was US$4.33. Our ADS price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including among other factors: • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our game players or our competitors; • announcements regarding intellectual property rights litigation; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of our online games; • addition or departure of our executive officers and key research personnel; and • sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. For example, we introduced an expansion pack in Mir II which was not well received and led to some of the game’s players reducing the amount of virtual items they purchase in the game. Primarily as a result of the introduction of that expansion pack, on March 1, 2010, we announced that we expected our net revenues in the first quarter of 2010 to decrease by 10-15% compared with the net revenues in the previous quarter. On that day, the market price of our ADSs decreased by approximately 18%, and on the following night, further decreased by approximately 6%. In addition, the financial markets in general, and the market prices for internet-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our ADSs, regardless of our operating performance. We may need additional capital and may sell additional ADSs or other equity securities or incur indebtedness, which could result in additional dilution to our shareholders or increase our debt service obligations. We may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 38 Table of Contents We may be required to withhold PRC income tax on the dividends we pay you (if any), and any gain you realize on the transfer of our ordinary shares and/or ADSs may also be subject to PRC withholding tax. Pursuant to the EIT Law, we may be treated as a PRC resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes. See “—There are significant uncertainties under the EIT Law relating to our PRC enterprise income tax liabilities.” If we are so treated by the PRC tax authorities, we may be obligated to withhold PRC income tax on payments of dividends on our ordinary shares and/or ADSs to investors that are non-resident enterprises of the PRC because the dividends payable on our ordinary shares and/or ADSs may be regarded as being derived from sources within the PRC. The withholding tax rate on China-sourced dividends paid to non-resident enterprises would generally be 10%, subject to the provisions of any applicable bilateral tax treaty between the PRC and the jurisdiction where the non-resident enterprise is incorporated. The U.S.-China tax treaty does not reduce the 10% tax rate. If we are treated as a PRC resident enterprise, any gain realized by any investors that are non-resident enterprises from the transfer of our ordinary shares and/or ADSs could be regarded as being derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to a 10% PRC tax. Moreover, if we are treated as a PRC resident enterprise under the PRC Individual Income Tax Law, or IITL, non-resident individual investors would be required to pay PRC individual income tax on dividends payable to such investors and any capital gains realized from the transfer of our ordinary shares and/or ADSs if such gains are deemed income derived from sources within the PRC. For this purpose, a non-resident individual is an individual who has no domicile in the PRC and has stayed within the PRC for less than one year during the relevant taxable year. Pursuant to the IITL and its implementation rules, for purposes of the PRC capital gains tax, the taxable income will be based on the total income obtained from the transfer of our ordinary shares and/or ADSs minus all the costs and expenses that are permitted under PRC tax laws to be deducted from the income. Therefore, if we are considered a PRC resident enterprise and dividends we pay with respect to our ordinary shares and/or ADSs or the gains realized from the transfer of our ordinary shares and/or ADSs are considered income derived from sources within the PRC by relevant PRC tax authorities, such income or gains earned by non-resident individuals may also be subject to PRC tax, which in the case of dividends will be withheld by us at source. The foregoing PRC withholding tax would reduce your investment return on our ordinary shares and/or ADSs and may also materially and adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares and/or ADSs. Your right as a holder of ADSs to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and they may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to such holders. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to our ADS holders in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. In addition, the deposit agreement provides that the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, ADS holders may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings. In addition, if the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or reasonably practicable, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case you will receive no value for these rights. 39 Table of Contents In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to ADS holders the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. ADS holders will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares their ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. As a result, the depositary may decide not to make the distribution and ADS holders will not receive such distribution. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by the ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems it necessary in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. As we are a Cayman Islands company, you may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and our ability to protect our rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law, Cap 22 (Law 3 of 1961, as consolidated and revised) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders to take action against our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law, are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities law when compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in the federal courts of the United States. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. Substantially all of our assets and a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. 40 Table of Contents As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulties in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a public company incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to sue before the federal courts of the United States. As a result, our ability to protect our interests if we are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable us to sue in a United States federal court may be limited. You may have difficulties in enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands company, substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States, and substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States, and a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state due to the lack of reciprocal treaty in the Cayman Islands or the PRC providing statutory recognition of judgments obtained in the United States. Furthermore, it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons who reside outside the United States predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Listing Rules and, as a result, rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to shareholders of other companies, and we may also rely on the foreign private issuer exemption from most of the corporate governance requirements under the NASDAQ Listing Rules. Because Shanda Interactive owns more than 50% of the total voting rights in our company, we are a “controlled company” under the NASDAQ Listing Rules. We are relying on the “controlled company” exemption under the NASDAQ Listing Rules and are not obligated to comply with certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements, including the requirements: • that a majority of our board of directors consist of independent directors; • that we have a corporate governance and nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; • that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and • for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and governance committee and the compensation committee. We are not required to and will not voluntarily meet these requirements. As a result of our reliance on the “controlled company” exemption, you will not have the same protection afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of NASDAQ’s corporate governance requirements. 41 Table of Contents In the event that we no longer qualify as a “controlled company” under the NASDAQ Listing Rules, we intend to rely on the foreign private issuer exemption from most of the corporate governance requirements under the NASDAQ Listing Rules. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs or Class A ordinary shares. Based upon the composition of our income and valuation of our assets, including goodwill, we do not believe that we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for the taxable year ended December 31, 2011. That determination is subject to uncertainty, however, both because it is not clear how the contractual arrangements between our PRC subsidiaries and our VIEs will be treated for purposes of the PFIC rules, and because of the uncertain characterization of certain components of our revenue. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we were not a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2011. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (ii) 50% or more of the value of its assets (determined on the basis of a quarterly average) during such year is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. The determination of whether we are a PFIC is based on the character of our income and assets and the value of our assets from time to time and is made annually after the end of each taxable year. The value of our assets may be based in part on the market price of our ADSs, which is likely to fluctuate (and may fluctuate considerably given that market prices of internet and online game companies historically have been especially volatile). For these reasons, and because of the uncertainties regarding the treatment of our contractual arrangements with our VIEs and the characterization of certain components of our revenue, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for any taxable year. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. person held an ADS or a Class A ordinary share, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. person. See Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Taxation—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” Our dual-class ordinary share structure with different voting rights could discourage others from pursuing any change of control transactions that holders of our Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association provide for a dual-class ordinary share structure. Our ordinary shares are divided into Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Holders of Class A ordinary shares are entitled to one vote per share, while the holder of Class B ordinary shares, which is Shanda SDG, a wholly owned subsidiary of Shanda Interactive, is entitled to 10 votes per share. We issued Class A ordinary shares represented by our ADSs in our initial public offering. Shanda SDG holds Class B ordinary shares, each of which is convertible into one Class A ordinary share at any time by Shanda SDG. Class A ordinary shares are not convertible into Class B ordinary shares under any circumstances. Due to the disparate voting rights attached to these two classes, the holder of our Class B ordinary shares has significant voting rights over matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and certain corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations and other business combinations. This concentrated control could discourage others from pursuing any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transactions that holders of Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. Our amended and restated articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our amended and restated articles of association include certain provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company. Such provisions could deprive our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over the prevailing market price by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transactions. 42 Table of Contents The following provisions in our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company: • our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association provides for a dual-class ordinary share structure with disparate voting rights attached to the two classes of ordinary shares; • our board of directors has the authority, without approval by the shareholders, to issue any unissued shares and determine the terms and conditions of such shares, including preferred, deferred or other special rights or restrictions with respect to dividend, voting and return of capital; • the shareholders may by ordinary resolution appoint a candidate as director of the board to fill a casual vacancy or as an addition to the existing board; • the chairman, a majority of our board of directors or shareholder(s) who hold(s) more than 25% of the voting rights of our company having requisitioned for an extraordinary shareholders’ meeting at least 21 days previously, have the right to convene an extraordinary shareholders’ meeting, and the agenda of such meeting will be set by a majority of the directors or the shareholder(s) who hold more than 25% of the voting rights of our company who request such meeting; and • the amended and restated articles of association may be amended only by a resolution passed at a shareholders’ meeting by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the vote cast. The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited by the terms of the deposit agreement. Except as described in this prospectus and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our Class A ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at a shareholders’ meeting if you do not vote, unless: • we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; • we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; or • a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders; The effect of this discretionary proxy is that you cannot prevent our Class A ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may be more difficult for holders of ADSs to influence the management of our company. 43 Table of Contents 