Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to other risks described in this report, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects: Most of our customers are public schools, which rely on state, local and federal funding. If any state, local or federal funding is materially reduced, our public school customers may no longer be able to afford to purchase our products and services, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. The vast majority of our customers are public schools and school districts. Although public funding varies by state and municipality, public schools and districts typically receive most of their funding from state and local governments, and a smaller portion from the federal government. Budget appropriations for education at all levels of government are determined through the political process and, as a result, the funding schools receive may fluctuate. State and federal educational funding is primarily funded through income taxes, and local educational funding is primarily funded through property taxes. As a result of the ongoing recession, income tax revenue for the 2008 and 2009 tax years has decreased, which has put pressure on state and federal budgets. In addition, with the recent decline in real estate values in almost every state and the resulting reassessments, property tax revenue is expected to decline over the next few years. Nationally, major state tax revenues have declined for the last five consecutive quarters according to the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government, with a 4.9% decline in the fourth quarter of 2009. Specifically, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Ohio, three of the four states accounting for our highest per-state revenue, had decreases in their major tax revenues of 3.3%, 6.2% and 8.8%, respectively, when comparing the third quarter of 2008 to 2009. Looking ahead to 2011, those same states are projecting continuing budget shortfalls of $4.4 billion, $4.1 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively. Continued declining tax revenues and unfavorable economic conditions may result in education budget cuts and lead to lower overall spending, including lower technology spending, by our current and potential clients, which may materially adversely affect our revenue. According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, at least 25 states made cuts or have proposed cuts to K-12 and early education funding in their 2010 budgets. Declines in tax receipts and gaps in states’ budgets could result in decreased education spending as well as cuts in recently enacted federal education spending programs, reduced school budgets and reduced availability of discretionary funds, all of which could materially adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. If national educational standards and assessments are adopted, or if existing metrics for applying state standards are revised, new competitors could more easily enter our markets or the demands in the markets we currently serve may change. With the reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, or ESEA, commonly known during the Bush administration as No Child Left Behind, in 2001, Congress conditioned the receipt of federal funding for education on the establishment of educational standards, annual assessments and the achievement of adequate yearly progress milestones. These standards are established at the state level, and there are currently no national educational standards that are required to be assessed pursuant to ESEA. As part of ESEA, each state is required to establish clear performance standards for each grade level in reading, math and science in grades 3 through 8, and for high school exit or end-of-course exams. Most of our revenue from subscriptions of our Study Island products is concentrated in grades K-8, which accounted for approximately 87% of our revenue in both 2009 and 2008. Subscriptions of our Study Island products by high schools accounted for approximately 11% and 10% of our revenue in 2009 and 2008, respectively. In 2009, the National Governors Association Center for Best Practices (NGA Center) and the Council of Chief State School Officers (CCSSO) launched a project to develop common core standards for reading and mathematics. With encouragement from President Obama and his administration, forty-eight states and The District of Columbia signed up to support the project. The timing for the release of the new standards is as follows: (1) final high school reading and mathematics standards are due in March 2010, and (2) draft elementary school reading and mathematics standards are due to be released in Spring 2010. States seeking to win a share of the U.S. Department of Education’s $4.35 billion Race to the Top one-time education grants this year were required to state in their applications that they will adopt the common core standards and develop new assessments based on the standards. The expectation is that states would finalize new standards and assessments in time for the 2011-2012 school year. This requirement has been controversial given that the common core standards project is a state-led effort, the standards have not been finalized yet and the transition would be costly and complex to implement. 17 Table of Contents While it is uncertain exactly how this initiative will play out over the next two to three years, a shift to national performance standards or a reduction in the use of government-imposed standards may result in a material decline in demand in the markets that we serve. In addition, our Study Island products are specifically built from the varying assessment standards in all 50 states, which we believe differentiates them from the products offered by our competitors. If national standards and assessments replace the current state assessments, it would be easier for competitors to develop similar products tailored to one national set of standards rather than multiple state standards. If such an increase in competition occurred, our ability to compete effectively could be negatively impacted and our revenue and profitability could materially decline. If Congress does not reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, or ESEA, or other legislation does not continue to mandate state educational standards and annual assessments, demand for our products and services could be materially adversely affected. ESEA substantially increased the importance of state-by-state educational standards and assessments by making such standards and annual assessments a condition to receipt of federal educational funding. ESEA initially was scheduled for reauthorization in October 2008, but was extended in order to allow the new U.S. presidential administration the opportunity to impact the direction of any future reauthorization. While still uncertain at this time, we believe it is unlikely that reauthorization will occur in 2010 and anticipate that the reauthorization will happen in the next two years. If ESEA is not reauthorized or extended or does not maintain or increase the importance of state-by-state education standards and assessments, or if other federal or state legislation were to lessen the importance of such standards and assessments, our products and services could become significantly less valuable to our customers, and our revenue and profitability could materially decline. Our recent rapid growth, the recent introduction of a number of our products and services and our entry into new markets make it difficult for us to evaluate our current and future business prospects, and we may be unable to effectively manage our growth and new initiatives, which may increase the risk of your investment and could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We were founded in 2000 and began offering our Study Island products in 2001. Since our founding, we have continually launched new Study Island products, entered additional states and experienced rapid growth and increasing market share in the expanding market for online learning. We began offering our Study Island products in all 50 states as of the 2008-2009 school year, and we launched our Northstar Learning product line in April 2009. Because many of our current products and services are relatively new and we have recently entered new markets, we may be unable to evaluate the relative success and future prospects, particularly in light of our goals to continually grow our existing and new customer base, expand our product and service offerings, acquire and integrate complementary businesses and enter new markets. In addition, our growth, recent product introductions and entry into new markets may place a significant strain on our resources and increase demands on our executive management, personnel and systems, and our operational, administrative and financial resources may be inadequate. We may also not be able to maintain or accelerate our current growth rate, effectively manage our expanding operations, or achieve planned growth on a timely or profitable basis, particularly if the number of students and educators using our products and services increase or their demands and needs change as our business expands. Our management will be required to expand its knowledge of diverse aspects of the education industry and maintain relationships with key customers across several sectors of the education market. If we are unable to manage our growth and expand operations effectively, we may experience operating inefficiencies, the quality of our products and services could deteriorate, and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The recent ongoing adoption of online learning in established education markets makes it difficult for us to evaluate our current and future business prospects. If web-based education fails to achieve widespread acceptance by students, parents, teachers, schools and other institutions, our growth and profitability may suffer. The use of online learning technology is a relatively new approach in the traditional K-12 education testing and assessment markets. There can be no assurance that online products and services will achieve long-term success in the K-12 or postsecondary education markets. Our success depends in part upon the continued adoption by teachers and school districts of technology-based education initiatives. Some academics and educators oppose online education in principle and have expressed concerns regarding the perceived loss of control over the education process that can result from offering content online. As a necessary corollary to the acceptance of web-based education in the classroom, our growth depends in part on parental acceptance of the role of technology in education and the availability of internet access in the home. If the acceptance of technology-based education does not continue to increase, our ability to continue to grow our business could be materially impaired. 18 Table of Contents Our revenue is primarily generated by sales of subscriptions to our Study Island products over the term of the subscription. Our customer renewal rates are difficult to predict and declines in our sales of Study Island products or our customer renewal rates may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Sales of our Study Island products accounts for the vast majority of our revenue and we anticipate that revenue from sales of our Study Island products will continue to account for a substantial majority of our revenue for the next few years. Our Study Island products are sold as subscriptions through purchase orders. The average subscription period for our Study Island products is 15 months and we occasionally sell multi-year subscriptions. Additionally, promotional incentives, such as complimentary months of service, are offered periodically to new Study Island customers, resulting in a subscription term longer than one year. Our Study Island customers are not obligated to renew their subscriptions at the end of the term, nor are they required to pay any penalties if they fail to renew their subscriptions. Because of constraints on the use of state, local and federal funding, some of our Study Island customers are only able to purchase subscriptions for 12-month periods. As a result, our Study Island customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions after the expiration of their initial subscription period. Our sales team begins the renewal process approximately six months prior to a subscription ending and consider this a renewal opportunity; however, our Study Island customers may choose to renew for fewer students or fewer products, which would reduce our revenue. Sales of our Study Island products or services or our customer renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including decreased demand, adverse regulatory actions, decreased school funding, pricing pressures, competitive factors or any other reason. These and other factors that have affected our Study Island sales or customer renewal rates in the past are not predictive of the future, and, as a result, we cannot accurately predict customer renewal rates. If sales to new Study Island customers decline or our Study Island customers do not renew their subscriptions at previous levels, our revenue may decline, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our Study Island products are predominantly purchased by individual schools, and any decisions at the district or state level to use the products and services of one of our competitors, or to limit or reduce the use of web-based educational products, could materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. The sales model for our Study Island products relies heavily on word-of-mouth referrals among teachers and school administrators who purchase our products and services for use by their students. If policymakers at the district or state level determine that our products and services are not the best option for schools in their district or state, or if they decide to decrease or discontinue the use of web-based educational products, individual teachers and school administrators may lose the ability to decide what, if any, online educational products and services they use. Such action may result in the loss of our customers and may materially limit our ability to attract new customers. In addition, our competitors may more successfully market their products and services at the district or state level, which could result in a decline in sales of our products and services. Fluctuations in sales or renewals may not be immediately reflected in our results of operations. We recognize revenue from our customers monthly over the term of each of their subscriptions, which averages 15 months, and we occasionally sell multi-year subscriptions. Additionally, promotional incentives, such as complimentary months of service, are offered periodically to new Study Island customers, resulting in a subscription term longer than one year. As a result, substantially all of the revenue we recognize in any period is deferred revenue from subscriptions purchased during previous periods. Consequently, a decline in new sales or subscription renewals in any particular period will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue in that period and will negatively affect our revenue in future periods. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect this reduced revenue. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales, subscription renewals or market acceptance of our products and services may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers would be recognized ratably over the applicable subscription term. 19 Table of Contents Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may cause our cash flow to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter and materially adversely impact the market price of our common stock. Our cash flow may fluctuate as a result of seasonal variations in our business, principally due to: • our customers’ spending patterns, including shifts in the timing of when individual schools or districts purchase our products and services; • the timing of school districts’ funding sources and budgeting cycles; • the timing of the release of federal funds to states, and the subsequent timing of states’ release of such funds to districts and schools; • the timing of expirations and renewals of subscriptions; • the timing of special promotions and discounts, including additional free months of subscriptions; and • the timing of acquisitions and non-recurring charges incurred in connection with acquisitions and extraordinary transactions. A significant percentage of our new sales and subscription renewals occur in the third quarter because teachers and school administrators typically make purchases for the new academic year at the beginning of their district’s fiscal year, which is usually July 1. The fourth calendar quarter has historically produced the second highest level of sales and renewals, followed by the second quarter and finally the first quarter. Because payment in full for subscriptions is typically due at the time of subscription or renewal, and our operating expense, of which labor and sales commissions make up the largest portion, historically have been fairly consistent throughout the year, we typically have higher cash flow in the quarters with stronger sales and renewals. We expect quarterly fluctuations in our cash flow to continue. System disruptions, vulnerability from security risks to our networks, databases and online applications and an inability to expand and upgrade our systems in a timely manner to meet unexpected increases in demand could damage our reputation, impact our ability to generate revenue and limit our ability to attract and retain customers. The performance and reliability of our technology infrastructure is critical to our business. Any failure to maintain satisfactory online product performance, reliability, security or availability of our web platform infrastructure may significantly reduce customer satisfaction and damage our reputation, which would negatively impact our ability to attract new customers and obtain customer renewals. The risks associated with our web platform include: • breakdowns or system failures resulting in a prolonged shutdown of our servers, including failures attributable to power shutdowns or attempts to gain unauthorized access to our systems, which may cause loss or corruption of data or malfunction of software or hardware; • disruption or failure in our colocation provider, which would make it difficult or impossible for students and teachers to log on to our websites; • damage from fire, flood, tornado, power loss or telecommunications failures; • infiltration by hackers or other unauthorized persons; and • any infection by or spread of computer viruses. In addition, increases in the volume of traffic on our websites could strain the capacity of our existing infrastructure, which could lead to slower response times or system failures. This would cause a disruption or suspension of our product and service offerings. Any web platform interruption or inadequacy that causes performance issues or interruptions in the availability of our websites could reduce customer satisfaction and result in a reduction in the number of customers using our products and services. If sustained or repeated, these performance issues could reduce the attractiveness of our websites and products and services. We may need to incur additional costs to upgrade our computer systems in order to accommodate system disruptions, security risks and increased demand if we anticipate that our systems cannot handle higher volumes of traffic in the future. However, the costs and complexities involved in expanding and upgrading our systems may prevent us from doing so in a timely manner and may prevent us from adequately meeting the demand placed on our systems. 20 Table of Contents Any significant interruption in the operations of our data centers could cause a loss of data and disrupt our ability to manage our network hardware and software and technological infrastructure, and any significant interruption in the operations of our call center could disrupt our ability to respond to requests for help or service and process orders in a timely manner. All of our web platform servers and routers, including backup servers, are currently located in colocation facilities in Dallas, Texas. As part of our disaster recovery arrangements, we are in the process of installing system infrastructure to replicate all of our customers’ data in a separate backup facility near Chicago, Illinois. If we are not successful in implementing this plan, we will face additional risks relating to the central location of our servers. Any disruption of operations of or damage to these servers could materially harm our ability to operate our business. We also may need to make additional investments to improve the performance of our platform and prevent disruption of our services. Any disruption or significant interruption in the operations of our data centers may result in a loss of customer satisfaction and limit our ability to retain and attract customers. We rely in part on our call center to generate sales leads and maintain a high level of customer service. Any significant interruption in the operation of our call center, including an interruption caused by our failure to expand or upgrade our systems or to manage these expansions or upgrades, could reduce our ability to receive and respond to requests for help or service, process orders and provide products and services, which could result in lost or cancelled sales and damage to our reputation. We are subject to laws and regulations as a result of our collection and use of personal information, particularly from our K-12 student users, and any violations of such laws or regulations, or any breach, theft or loss of such information, could materially adversely affect our reputation and operations and expose us to costly litigation. Our products and services require the disclosure of student information by educational institutions and credit card information by some customers. The vast majority of our Study Island users are minors. The Child Online Protection Act and the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act restrict the distribution of materials considered harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect information from minors. Many states have also passed laws requiring notification to users when there is a security breach of personal data. Additionally, the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, or FERPA, protects the privacy and restricts the disclosure of student information, and we must remain FERPA-compliant through security policies, processes, systems and controls, including using software that detects hackers and other unauthorized or illegal activities. We cannot predict whether new technological developments could circumvent these security measures. If the security measures that we use to protect personal or student information or credit card information are ineffective, we may be subject to liability, including claims for invasion of privacy, impersonation, unauthorized purchases with credit card information or other similar claims. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission and several states have investigated the use of personal information by certain internet companies. We could incur significant expense and our business could be materially adversely affected if new regulations regarding use of personal information are introduced, if our security measures are ineffective or if our privacy practices are investigated. Domestic and foreign government regulation relating to the internet or our products and services could cause us to incur significant expense, and failure to comply with applicable regulations could make our business less efficient or even impossible to continue to operate. As web-based commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. In addition, taxation of services provided over the internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the internet may also be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for internet use or restricting information exchange over the internet could result in a decline in the use of the internet and the viability of internet-based services, which could materially harm our business. 21 Table of Contents We may not be able to develop new products and services or expand our existing product lines in a timely and cost effective manner. Each of our Study Island products is built from specific state standards for a particular grade level and subject in the K-12 market. With these standards continually changing and our release of new Study Island products, as well as the launch of our new Northstar Learning product line, our product and content development teams may not be able to respond to changing market requirements on a timely basis. In addition, we are entering new markets, such as the postsecondary and international markets, which will place new demands on our product and content development teams. These are new, unproven markets for us, and if we are not able to generate sufficient new revenue to exceed the incremental costs associated with developing and delivering new products and entering new markets, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, we may be unable to develop and offer additional products and services on commercially reasonable terms and in a timely manner, if at all, or maintain the quality and consistency necessary to keep pace with changes in market requirements and respond to competitive pressures. A failure to do any of these things may result in a material decline in our revenue and may prevent us from maintaining profitability. If we acquire or invest in any companies, services or technologies in the future, they could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and materially adversely affect our results of operations. As part of our growth strategy, we may acquire or invest in complementary companies, services and technologies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate any such acquisitions or investments on favorable terms or at all. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute our acquisitions or investments, our business and prospects may be seriously harmed. Such acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services and personnel; • diversion of financial and managerial resources from existing operations; • risk of entering new markets; • potential write-offs of acquired assets; • significant one-time costs, including banking, legal and accounting fees and payment of severance packages; • potential loss of key employees; • inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs; and • delays in customer purchases due to uncertainty. In connection with our acquisitions or investments, we may also incur additional debt and related interest expense, as well as unforeseen liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we may issue additional equity in connection with these transactions, which would result in dilution to our existing stockholders. If we are unable to maintain and enhance our brand identity, our business and results of operations may suffer. The continued development of our brand identity is important to our business, and expanding brand awareness is critical to attracting and retaining our customers. Although our Study Island brand has existed since 2000, our Northstar Learning and Archipelago Learning brands are relatively new, having launched in April 2009 and August 2009, respectively. Our existing and potential customers may not be aware of the relationship of our brands with one and another, particularly Archipelago Learning serving as an umbrella for each of our products and Northstar Learning serving as a postsecondary education product line. Our newer brands are unproven and may not be successfully received by our customers. In addition, we have launched our Study Island products in a number of new states over the last several years and intend to launch Study Island products in international markets in the future. As we continue to increase subscriptions and extend our geographic reach, maintaining quality and consistency across all of our products and services may become more difficult to achieve, and any significant and well-publicized failure to maintain this quality and consistency will have a detrimental effect on our brand. We cannot provide assurances that our sales and marketing efforts will be successful in further promoting our brand in a competitive and cost-effective manner. If we are unable to maintain and enhance our brand recognition and increase awareness of our products and services, or if we incur excessive sales and marketing expense, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing expenditures in recruiting new customers. Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing expenditures, including our ability to: • create greater awareness of our brands; • select the right market, media and specific media vehicles in which to advertise; • identify the most effective and efficient level of spending in each market, media and specific media vehicle; • determine the appropriate creative message and media mix for advertising, marketing and promotional expenditures; • effectively manage marketing costs, including creative and media expense, in order to maintain acceptable customer acquisition costs; • generate leads for sales, including obtaining educator lists in a cost-effective manner; • drive traffic to our website; and • convert customer inquiries into actual orders. Our planned marketing expenditures may not result in increased revenue or generate sufficient levels of product and brand awareness, and we may not be able to increase our net sales at the same rate as we increase our advertising expenditures. We operate in a highly competitive market subject to rapid technological changes, and increasing competition could lead to pricing pressures, reduced operating margins, loss of market share and increased capital expenditures. The markets for our products and services are highly competitive, and we expect increased competition in the future that could adversely affect our revenue and market share. Our current competitors include but are not limited to: • providers of online and offline supplemental instructional materials for the core subject areas of reading, mathematics, science and social studies for K-12 institutions; • companies that provide K-12-oriented software and web-based educational assessment and remediation products and services to students, educators, parents and educational institutions; • the assessment divisions of established education publishers, including Pearson Education, Inc., The McGraw-Hill Companies and Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Company; • providers of online and offline test preparation materials; • traditional print textbook and workbook companies that publish K-12 core subject educational materials, standardized test preparation materials or paper and pencil assessment tools; • summative assessment companies, which traditionally assess student learning at the end of a class period, that have expanded their line to include products that provide periodic assessment in the classroom to gauge student learning and inform instruction, also known as formative assessment; and • non-profit and membership educational organizations and government agencies that offer online and offline products and services, including in some cases at no cost, to assist individuals in standards mastery and test preparation. Some of our competitors may have more resources than we do, and several of the largest K-12 educational publishers may have more experience, larger customer bases and greater brand recognition in the markets we serve. Further, larger established companies with high brand recognition and extensive experience providing various educational products to the K-12 market may develop online products and services that are competitive with our core products and services. These competitors may be able to devote greater resources than us to the development, promotion and sale of their services and respond more quickly than we can to new technologies or changes in customer requirements or preferences. We may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors, especially those with significantly greater resources or more established customer bases, which may materially adversely affect our sales and our business. 23 Table of Contents If our products or services contain errors, new product releases could be delayed or our services could be disrupted. As a result, our customers may choose not to renew their subscriptions and our business could be materially adversely affected. If our products or services contain defects, errors or security vulnerabilities, our reputation could be harmed, which could result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our products and services in the future. Because our products and services are complex and because we do not “pre-launch” any of our products or upgrades to any third parties prior to the official launch, they may contain undetected errors or defects, known as bugs. Bugs can be detected at any point in time, but are more common when a new product or service is introduced or when new versions are released. We expect that, despite our testing, errors will be found in the future. If an error occurs, our product and service offerings may be disrupted, causing delays or interruptions. Significant errors, delays or disruptions could lead to: • decreases in customer satisfaction with and loyalty toward our products and services; • delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products and services; • diversion of our resources; • a lower rate of subscription renewals or upgrades; • injury to our reputation; or • increased service expense or payment of damages. If we are unable to adapt our products and services to technological changes, to the emergence of new computing devices and to more sophisticated online services, we may lose market share and revenue, and our business could suffer. We need to anticipate, develop and introduce new products, services and applications on a timely and cost effective basis that keeps pace with technological developments and changing customer needs. For example, the number of individuals who access the internet through devices other than a personal computer, such as personal digital assistants, mobile telephones, televisions and set-top box devices, has increased dramatically, and this trend is likely to continue. Our products and services were designed for internet use on desktop and laptop computers. The lower resolution, functionality and memory associated with alternative devices currently available may make the use of our products and services through such devices difficult. We have no experience to date in operating versions of our products and services developed or optimized for users of alternative devices. Accordingly, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in developing versions of our products and services for use on these alternative devices, and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support and maintenance of such versions. If we fail to develop or sell products and services cost effectively that respond to these or other technological developments and changing customer needs, we may lose market share and revenue and our business could materially suffer. Protection of our intellectual property is limited, and any misuse of our intellectual property by others, including software piracy, could harm our business, reputation and competitive position. Our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, trade dress and designs are valuable and integral to our success and competitive position. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately protect our proprietary rights through reliance on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and technical measures. Protection of trade secrets and other intellectual property rights in the markets in which we operate and compete is highly uncertain and may involve complex legal questions. We cannot completely prevent the unauthorized use or infringement of our intellectual property rights, as such prevention is inherently difficult. Despite enforcement efforts against software piracy, we lose significant revenue due to illegal use of our software. If piracy activities increase, they may further harm our business. We also expect that the more successful we are, the more likely that competitors will try to illegally use our proprietary information and develop products that are similar to ours, which may infringe on our proprietary rights. In addition, we could potentially lose future trade secret protection for our source code if any unauthorized disclosure of such code occurs. The loss of future trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality. Any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may compromise our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property rights. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our confidential information and trade secret protection. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights or if third parties independently develop or gain access to our or similar technologies, our business, revenue, reputation and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents We may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others and such actions would be costly to defend, could require us to pay damages or enter into royalty or license agreements with third parties and could limit our ability or increase our costs to use certain content or technologies in the future. We may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others or be subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Regardless of merits, intellectual property claims are often time-consuming and expensive to litigate and settle. In addition, to the extent claims against us are successful, we may have to pay substantive monetary damages or discontinue any of our products, services or practices that are found to be in violation of another party’s rights. We also may have to seek a license and make royalty payments to continue offering our products and services or following such practices, which may significantly increase our operating expense. Our customers can input their own content to our websites. We have limited control over this content, which could expose us to liability from third parties. As part of a subscription to our websites, our customers are able to input their own content onto our websites, which may be accessible by other users who share the same subscription as the creator of the content. For example, educators and students may post articles or other materials on class discussion boards, which may give rise to claims from third parties for the unauthorized duplication or distribution of this material. We may be exposed to liability, including fines and costly litigation, if the content violates the intellectual property rights of a third party, or otherwise violates any law or regulation, including FERPA, the Child Online Protection Act and the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act. The confidentiality, non-disclosure and other agreements we use to protect our products, trade secrets and proprietary information may prove unenforceable or inadequate. We protect our products, trade secrets and proprietary information, in part, by requiring all of our employees to enter into agreements providing for the maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while employed by us. We also enter into non-disclosure agreements with our technical consultants, customers, vendors and resellers to protect our confidential and proprietary information. We cannot assure you that our confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties will not be breached, that we will be able to effectively enforce these agreements, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets and other proprietary information will not be disclosed or will otherwise be protected. We also rely on contractual and license agreements with third parties in connection with their use of our products and technology. There is no guarantee that such parties will abide by the terms of such agreements or that we will be able to adequately enforce our rights, in part because we rely, in many instances, on “click-wrap” licenses, which are licenses that can only be read and accepted online and are not negotiated or signed by individual licensees. Accordingly, some provisions of our licenses, including provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer, resale and disclosure of the licensed software program, may be unenforceable under the laws of several jurisdictions. We have not registered copyrights for all of our products, which may limit our ability to enforce them. We have not registered our copyrights in all of our software, written materials, website information, designs or other copyrightable works. The United States Copyright Act automatically protects all of our copyrightable works, but without registration we cannot enforce those copyrights against infringers or seek certain statutory remedies for any such infringement. Preventing others from copying our products, written materials and other copyrightable works is important to our overall success in the marketplace. In the event we decide to enforce any of our copyrights against infringers, we will first be required to register the relevant copyrights, and we cannot be sure that all of the material for which we seek copyright registration would be registrable in whole or in part, or that once registered, we would be successful in bringing a copyright claim against any such infringers. 25 Table of Contents We must monitor and protect our internet domain names to preserve their value. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe on or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks. We own several domain names that include the terms Study Island, Archipelago Learning and Northstar Learning, among others. Third parties may acquire substantially similar domain names that decrease the value of our domain names and trademarks and other proprietary rights which may hurt our business. Moreover, the regulation of domain names in the United States and foreign countries is subject to change. Governing bodies could appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. Governing bodies could also establish additional “top-level” domains, which are the portion of the web address that appears to the right of the “dot,” such as “com,” “net,” “gov” or “org.” As a result, we may not maintain exclusive rights to all potentially relevant domain names in the United States or in other countries in which we conduct business, which could harm our business and reputation. We do not own all of the software, content and other technologies used in our products and services. Some of our products and services include intellectual property owned by third parties, including licensed content for reading passages and other educational content. From time to time we may be required to renegotiate with these third parties or negotiate with new third parties to include or continue using their technology or content in our existing products, in new versions of our existing products or in wholly new products. We may not be able to negotiate or renegotiate licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and the third-party software we use may not be appropriately supported, maintained or enhanced by the licensors. If we are unable to obtain the rights necessary to use or continue to use third-party technology or content in our products and services, or if those third parties are unable to support, maintain and enhance their software, we could experience increased costs or delays or reductions in product releases and functionality until equivalent software or content can be developed, identified, licensed and integrated. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our key employees. We are dependent on the services of Tim McEwen, our Chief Executive Officer, James Walburg, our Chief Financial Officer, Ray Lowrey, our Chief Technology Officer, Julie Huston, our Executive Vice President, Global Sales, Martijn Tel, our Chief Operating Officer, Allison Duquette, our Chief Marketing Officer, our other vice presidents and senior editors, and other members of our senior management team. Other than non-compete provisions of limited duration included in employment agreements that we have with certain executives, we do not generally seek non-compete agreements with key personnel, and they may leave and subsequently compete against us. The loss of service of any of our senior management team, particularly those who are not party to employment agreements with us, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to attract and retain the skilled employees needed to sustain and grow our business. Our success to date has largely depended on, and will continue to depend on, the skills, efforts and motivations of our executive team and employees, who generally have significant experience with our company and within the education industry. Our success also depends largely on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified IT engineers and programmers, content writers and editors, sales and marketing managers and corporate management personnel. We may experience difficulties in locating and hiring qualified personnel and in retaining such personnel once hired, which may materially and adversely affect our business. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. We are and have been subject to income taxes and other taxes in a variety of jurisdictions and are subject to review by both various state and federal taxation authorities. The determination of our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment and the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements, which may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. 26 Table of Contents Although we do not currently transact a material amount of business in foreign countries, we intend to expand into international markets, which will subject us to additional economic, operational and political risks that could increase our costs and make it difficult for us to continue to operate profitably. We recently launched Study Island products in Canada and intend to expand into other international markets. The addition of international operations may require significant expenditure of financial and management resources and result in increased administrative and compliance costs. As a result of such expansion, we will be increasingly subject to the risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including: • foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in reduced revenue and increased operating expense; • potentially longer payment and sales cycles; • increased difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • the effect of applicable foreign tax structures, including tax rates that may be higher than tax rates in the United States or taxes that may be duplicative of those imposed in the United States; • tariffs and trade barriers; • general economic and political conditions in each country; • inadequate intellectual property protection in foreign countries; • uncertainty regarding liability for information retrieved and replicated in foreign countries; • the difficulties and increased expense in complying with a variety of domestic and foreign laws, regulations and trade standards, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; and • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. The current global financial crisis and adverse worldwide economic conditions may have significant effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The current global financial crisis, which has included, among other things, significant reductions in available capital and liquidity, substantial reductions and/or fluctuations in equity and currency values and a worldwide recession, the extent of which is likely to be significant and prolonged — may materially adversely affect our business. We have already begun to experience some weakening in demand for our products and services, and we cannot predict whether it will continue or increase. In an economic downturn like the current one, which is characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our products and services may be materially adversely affected. Most of our customers are public schools, which rely on state, local and federal funding. If any state, local or federal funding is materially reduced, our public school customers may no longer be able to afford to purchase our products and services, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. The credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption since August 2007. The current global financial crisis affecting the banking system and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or fail has resulted in a tightening of the credit markets, which could impair our ability to refinance our existing debt, to draw upon our revolving credit facility or incur additional debt, to seek other funding sources to meet our liquidity needs or to fund planned expansion. Furthermore, the tightening of the credit markets may delay or prevent our customers from securing funding adequate to operate their businesses and purchase our products and services, leading to an increase in our bad debt levels. We may need additional capital in the future, but there is no assurance that funds will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We may need to raise additional funds in order to achieve growth or fund other business initiatives. This financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us and may be dilutive to existing stockholders if raised through additional equity offerings. Additionally, any securities issued to raise funds may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to expand, develop or enhance services or products, or respond to competitive pressures may be materially limited. 27 Table of Contents Our existing indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and we may not be able to fulfill our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2009, Archipelago Learning, LLC had an outstanding term loan in an aggregate principal amount equal to $61.6 million and no revolving credit loans outstanding under its revolving credit facility which expires in November 2013. We repaid $6.5 million of the term loan in November 2009 in connection with the sale of TeacherWeb. The agreements governing this credit facility contain various covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • pay dividends or make other distributions to our stockholders; • make restricted payments; • incur liens; • engage in transactions with affiliates; and • enter into business combinations. These restrictions could limit our ability to withstand general economic downturns that could affect our business, obtain future financing, make acquisitions or capital expenditures, conduct operations or otherwise capitalize on business opportunities that may arise. Additionally, we will use a significant portion of our cash flow to pay interest on our outstanding debt, limiting the amount available for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. We may be more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions than less leveraged competitors and thus less able to withstand competitive pressures. If our cash flow is inadequate to make interest and principal payments on our debt, we might have to refinance our indebtedness or issue additional equity or other securities and may not be successful in those efforts or may not obtain terms favorable to us. Additionally, our ability to finance working capital needs and general corporate purposes for the public and private markets, as well as the associated cost of funding, is dependent, in part, on our credit ratings, which may be adversely affected if we experience declining revenue. Any of these events could reduce our ability to generate cash available for investment or debt repayment or to make improvements or respond to events that would enhance profitability. We may incur significantly more debt in the future, which will increase each of the foregoing risks related to our indebtedness. In addition as a result of the sale of TeacherWeb, the obligations under our credit facility will be guaranteed only by AL Midco, LLC, or AL Midco, as TeacherWeb’s guarantee was released, and will be secured by liens on substantially all of the assets owned by Archipelago Learning, LLC and AL Midco. For a more detailed description of our credit facility, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Credit Facility.” Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may fluctuate significantly, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the current market price. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and subject to wide price fluctuations in response to various factors, including: • market conditions in the broader stock market; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and results of operations; • introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; • issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; • investor perceptions of us and the educational industry; • sales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our stock; • additions or departures of key personnel; • regulatory or political developments; • litigation and governmental investigations; and • changing economic conditions. 28 Table of Contents These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders were to bring a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our stock or if our results of operations do not meet their expectations, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade recommendations regarding our stock, or if our results of operations do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline and such decline could be material. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that such sales might occur, could reduce the price of our common stock and may dilute your voting power and your ownership interest in us. If our existing stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that our existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock could also depress our market price. As of December 31, 2009, we had 25,110,255 shares of common stock outstanding, including shares of restricted common stock. Our directors, executive officers, employees and substantially all of our other stockholders prior to our initial public offering are subject to the lock-up agreements and are subject to the Rule 144 holding period requirements. After these lock-up agreements have expired and holding periods have elapsed, 17,919,219 additional shares will be eligible for sale in the public market. The market price of shares of our common stock may drop significantly when the restrictions on resale by our pre-initial public offering stockholders lapse. A decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities. Insiders have substantial control over us and could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. Our principal stockholders, directors and executive officers and entities affiliated with them own approximately 68.1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, would be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. In addition, we have elected to opt out of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder,” and we will be able to enter into transactions with our principal stockholders. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 29 Table of Contents We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of NASDAQ rules and will qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. As a result, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements. Providence Equity Partners, Cameron Chalmers, David Muzzo and MHT-SI, L.P. control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock pursuant to the terms of a voting agreement. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of NASDAQ corporate governance standards. Under these rules, a “controlled company” may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including: • the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; • the requirement that we have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; • the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and • the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees. We utilize these exemptions. As a result, we do not have a majority of independent directors, our nominating and corporate governance committee, and compensation committee do not consist entirely of independent directors and such committees are not be subject to annual performance evaluations. Accordingly, our stockholders will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of NASDAQ. As a result of becoming a public company, we are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting and are subject to other requirements that will be burdensome and costly. We may not timely complete our analysis of our internal control over financial reporting, or these internal controls may not be determined to be effective, which could adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. We have historically operated our business as a private company. We are required to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, annual and quarterly information and other reports that are specified in Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. We are also be required to ensure that we have the ability to prepare financial statements that are fully compliant with all SEC reporting requirements on a timely basis. In addition, are subject to other reporting and corporate governance requirements, including the requirements of NASDAQ, and certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the regulations promulgated thereunder, which impose significant compliance obligations upon us. As a public company, we are required to: • prepare and distribute periodic public reports and other stockholder communications in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws and NASDAQ rules; • create or expand the roles and duties of our board of directors and committees of the board; • institute more comprehensive financial reporting and disclosure compliance functions; • supplement our internal accounting and auditing function, including hiring additional staff with expertise in accounting and financial reporting for a public company; • enhance and formalize closing procedures at the end of our accounting periods; • establish an internal audit function; • enhance our investor relations function; • establish new internal policies, including those relating to disclosure controls and procedures; and • involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the activities listed above. These changes require a significant commitment of additional resources. We may not be successful in implementing these requirements and implementing them could adversely affect our business or results of operations. In addition, if we fail to implement the requirements with respect to our internal accounting and audit functions, our ability to report our results of operations on a timely and accurate basis could be impaired. 30 Table of Contents Our internal control over financial reporting does not currently comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including the requirement for a public accounting firm attestation report, and failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, including the requirement for a public accounting firm attestation report, in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on us. Our internal control over financial reporting does not currently comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including the requirement for a public accounting firm attestation report. We will be required to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in the course of preparing our 2010 financial statements. We do not currently have comprehensive documentation of our internal controls, nor do we document or test our compliance with these controls on a periodic basis in accordance with Section 404. Furthermore, we have not tested our internal controls in accordance with Section 404 and, due to our lack of documentation, such a test would not be possible to perform at this time. We are in the early stages of addressing our internal control procedures to comply with Section 404, which requires an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We will incur additional costs in order to improve our internal control over financial reporting and comply with Section 404, including increased auditing and legal fees and costs associated with hiring additional accounting and administrative staff. If, as a public company, we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis, may suffer adverse regulatory consequences or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules and may breach the covenants under our credit facility. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, may depress the trading price of our stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include certain provisions that could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control of our company or changes in our management, including, among other things: • restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to fill a vacancy on the board of directors; • our ability to issue preferred stock with terms that the board of directors may determine, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer; • the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors which may limit the ability of minority stockholders to elect directors; and • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from soliciting proxies to elect a particular state of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. These provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company that is in the best interest of our minority stockholders. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging future takeover attempts. We do not expect to pay dividends, and any return on an investment in our common stock will likely be limited to the appreciation of our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, for the foreseeable future, to repay indebtedness and to fund the development and growth of our business. We do not intend to pay any dividends to holders of our common stock and the agreements governing our credit facility significantly restrict our ability to pay dividends. As a result, capital appreciation in the price of our common stock, if any, will be your only source of gain or income on an investment in our common stock. 31 Table of Contents Our certificate of incorporation contains a provision renouncing our interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities. Our certificate of incorporation provides for the allocation of certain corporate opportunities between us and Providence Equity Partners. Under these provisions, neither Providence Equity Partners, its affiliates and subsidiaries, nor any of their officers, directors, agents, stockholders, members or partners will have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. For instance, a director of our company who also serves as a director, officer or employee of Providence Equity Partners or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates may pursue certain acquisition or other opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, such acquisition or other opportunities may not be available to us. These potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects if attractive corporate opportunities are allocated by Providence Equity Partners to itself or its subsidiaries or affiliates instead of to us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 