ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our loan portfolio has greater risk than those of many savings banks due to the substantial number of automobile and other consumer loans in our portfolio. We have a diversified loan portfolio with a substantial number of loans secured by collateral other than owner-occupied one- to four-family residential real estate. Our loan portfolio includes a substantial number of indirect automobile loans which are automobile loans referred to us by a participating automobile dealership. At December 31, 2009, our consumer loans totaled $224.9 million, or 31.8% of our total loan portfolio, and indirect automobile loans were the largest category of consumer loans representing 25.0% of total loans at December 31, 2009. At that date, we had delinquent consumer loans 60 days or more past due of $546,000, or 21.8% of total delinquent loans 60 days or more past due. Indirect automobile loans represented $440,000, or 17.5% of total delinquent loans 60 days or more past due at December 31, 2009. Our consumer loan portfolio also includes direct automobile loans, unsecured loans and loans secured by other personal property. Consumer loans generally have greater risk of loss or default than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, particularly in the case of loans that are secured by rapidly depreciable assets, such as automobiles, or loans that are unsecured. In these cases, we face the risk that any collateral for a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance. Thus, the recovery and sale of such property could be insufficient to compensate us for the principal outstanding on these loans. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit our ability to recover on such loans. Finally, because indirect automobile loan applications are completed by automobile dealerships, we assume the risks associated with a dealership properly complying with federal, state and local consumer protection laws. As a result of our relatively large portfolio of consumer loans, it may become necessary to increase our provision for loan losses in the event our losses on these loans increase, which would reduce our profits. In addition, a portion of our automobile loans are made to borrowers with credit scores that would cause such loans to be considered subprime. At December 31, 2009, $13.3 million, or 6.6% of our total automobile loan portfolio, consisted of automobile loans where the borrower’s credit score was 660 or less (a possible indication of a credit-impaired borrower). See “Item 1 Business— Business of OmniAmerican Bank — Lending Activities — Consumer Lending.” A portion of our loan portfolio consists of loans made to persons with impaired credit or with reduced documentation, which presents greater risk of loss or delinquency. As of December 31, 2009, $20.3 million, or 7.9%, of our one- to four-family residential mortgage loans were to borrowers with a credit score of 660 or less (a possible indication of a credit-impaired borrower) and additional credit weakness. Weakened credit characteristics of a borrower may include prior loan payment delinquencies, foreclosure of prior loans, bankruptcies or prior non-payment of loans. Loans to such borrowers may also present a greater credit risk to us based upon the borrower’s debt to income ratio, the results of a credit review or other criteria that indicates that the borrower may have an insufficient or impaired credit history. We also have loans to borrowers who provide limited or no documentation of assets or income, known as stated income loans. At December 31, 2009, we had $14.4 million of one- to four-family residential mortgage stated income loans, or 5.6% of our one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. As of December 31, 2009, we had $9.7 million of interest-only one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. This amount represents 3.8% of our total one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, with $6.4 million of our interest-only loans comprised of adjustable-rate loans. The interest rate on these loans is initially fixed for three, five or seven year terms and then adjusts in accordance with the terms of the loan to require payment of both principal and interest in order to amortize the loan for the remainder of the term. 49 Table of Contents In 2008, we began purchasing one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, which included subprime, stated income and interest-only loans, at a discount to the original principal balance of the mortgage loan. As of December 31, 2009, the total outstanding balance of all purchased one- to four-family residential mortgage loans was $30.3 million, or 11.8% of our one- to four-family residential mortgage loans and 4.3% of our total loans, while the carrying value of such loans, net of purchase discounts, was $25.5 million. Our purchased one- to four-family residential mortgage loans included $6.9 million of subprime loans as of December 31, 2009. In addition, these purchased one- to four-family residential mortgage loans included $13.4 million of stated income loans and $5.9 million of interest-only loans (of which $4.4 million were also stated income loans). At December 31, 2009, the purchased subprime, stated income and interest-only loans represented 2.7%, 5.2% and 2.3%, respectively, of our total one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. We intend to continue to purchase subprime, stated income and interest-only loans, as market conditions permit, provided we are able to obtain the loans at a sufficient discount to the loan balance to compensate us for the added risk associated with such loans. These types of one- to four-family residential mortgage loans are generally considered to have a greater risk of delinquency and foreclosure than conforming loans and may require greater provisions for loan losses. Although we have not yet experienced large increases in delinquencies or foreclosures in this portfolio, our residential mortgage loan portfolio may be adversely affected in the event of a continued downturn in regional or national economic conditions. In addition, the value of the real estate securing these loans may become less than any remaining loan balance if local property values deteriorate further. Consequently, we could sustain loan losses and be required to establish a higher provision for loan losses. Our loan portfolio has more risk due to the recent change in our lending emphasis which has resulted in a greater percentage of new one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Between 2005 and 2009, the composition of our loan portfolio changed significantly as the dollar amount and percentage of our loans secured by one- to four-family residential real estate increased to $257.3 million, or 36.4% of total loans, at December 31, 2009, from $145.8 million, or 18.3% of total loans, at December 31, 2005. During this period, our consumer loans decreased to $224.8 million, or 31.8% of total loans, at December 31, 2009, from $554.2 million, or 69.6% of total loans, at December 31, 2005. As a result of this change in our lending emphasis, a significant portion of our one- to four-family residential mortgage loans are relatively new or “unseasoned,” and have not been outstanding for a sufficient period of time to demonstrate performance and indicate the potential risks in the loan portfolio. For example, our unseasoned adjustable-rate residential mortgage loans have not been subject to an interest rate environment that required them to adjust to the maximum interest rate level and may involve risks resulting from potentially larger payment obligations by borrowers. At December 31, 2009, one- to four-family residential mortgage loans delinquent 60 days or more totaled $1.7 million, or 67.5% of total delinquent loans of 60 days or more. We have increased our levels of non-residential mortgage loans and commercial business loans which has increased our exposure to credit risk. Since our conversion from a credit union to a savings bank, we have increased the amount of loans secured by commercial real estate, as well as real estate construction and commercial business loans. At December 31, 2009, our portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $101.0 million, or 14.3% of our total loans, compared to $74.2 million, or 10.2% of our total loans, at December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2009, our portfolio of real estate construction loans totaled $36.8 million, or 5.2% of our total loans, compared to $28.8 million, or 4.0% of our total loans, at December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2009, our portfolio of commercial business loans totaled $59.3 million, or 8.4% of our total loans, compared to $11.6 million, or 1.6%, of our total loans at December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2009, our commercial real estate loans that were delinquent 60 days or more totaled $103,000, or 4.1% of total delinquent loans of 60 days or more. At December 31, 2009, we had no real estate construction or commercial business loans that were delinquent 60 days or more. We intend to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans consistent with safety and soundness standards. 50 Table of Contents Commercial real estate loans, real estate construction loans and commercial business loans generally have a greater risk of loss than owner-occupied one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Repayment of commercial real estate, real estate construction and commercial business loans generally depends, in large part, on sufficient income from the property or the borrower’s business to cover operating expenses and debt service. These types of loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Changes in economic conditions that are beyond the control of the borrower and lender may affect the value of the security for the loan, the future cash flow of the affected property or business, or the marketability of a construction project with respect to loans originated for the acquisition and development of property. As we increase our portfolio of these loans, our level of non-performing loans may increase. We intend to emphasize business lending and marketing our products and services to small and medium-sized businesses. These small and medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively affect these businesses, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Protecting our business from identity theft and the theft of other customer data increases our cost of operations. To the extent that we, or our third party providers, are unable to prevent the loss of customer information, our operations may become disrupted and our net income may be adversely affected. In recent years, the breach of computer and network systems of businesses, such as banks, by national and international criminals (cyber-fraud) has become more prevalent. Financial fraud is a growing risk of doing business for financial institutions. In January 2008, we experienced a breach of security involving our ATM/debit card system. Throughout 2008, we upgraded our systems, hired additional personnel and outside consultants to remediate this problem. In August 2009, law enforcement authorities arrested members of the largest identity theft operation ever conducted in the United States. The identity theft operation included the theft of information from a number of retail companies and Heartland Payment Systems, a payment transaction processing center used by many merchants. As a result of this recent identity theft operation, a number of our customers who had their debit card transactions processed through Heartland Payment Systems had their customer information breached. We have remediated the problem and our cybersecurity insurance policy reimbursed us $905,000 for costs we incurred associated with the breach of Heartland Payment Systems. In 2009, we incurred $335,000 of unreimbursed expenses related to this breach, which represented the fees imposed on us by VISA to process merchant reimbursements for our customers, the cost of reissuing debit cards to our customers and the expense of the insurance deductible. We must protect our computer systems and network from physical break-ins, security breaches, and other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users. Moreover, third party providers such as Heartland Payment Systems, must also take similar actions to protect customer information. We rely on encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmissions of confidential information, as do our third party providers. However, security measures implemented by us or our third party providers may not prevent cyber-fraud. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to protect customer transaction data. If any compromise of our security or the security of our third party providers were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 51 Table of Contents We could record future impairment losses on our holdings of investment securities. We may not receive full future interest payments on these securities. Our investment portfolio includes trust preferred securities and private label collateralized mortgage obligations. We periodically review the performance of these securities and conduct tests for their impairment. As of December 31, 2009, we determined that no other than temporary impairment loss associated with our investment securities was required to be charged to income. A number of factors or combinations of factors could cause us to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that an unrealized loss that exists with respect to these securities constitutes an additional impairment that is other than temporary, which could result in material losses to us. These factors include, but are not limited to, continued failure to make scheduled interest payments, an increase in the severity of the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the continuous duration of the unrealized loss without an improvement in value or changes in market conditions and/or industry or issuer specific factors that would render us unable to forecast a full recovery in value. In addition, the fair values of these investment securities could decline if the overall economy and the financial condition of some of the issuers continues to deteriorate and there remains limited liquidity for these securities. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, requiring us to make additions to our allowance for loan losses. While our allowance for loan losses was 1.18% of total loans at December 31, 2009, material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our expenses may increase as a result of increases in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premiums. On February 27, 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation issued a final rule that alters the way the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation calculates federal deposit insurance assessment rates. Under the rule, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation first establishes an institution’s initial base assessment rate. This initial base assessment rate ranges from 12 to 45 basis points, depending on the risk category of the institution. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation then adjusts the initial base assessment (higher or lower) to obtain the total base assessment rate. The adjustments to the initial base assessment rate are based upon an institution’s levels of unsecured debt, secured liabilities, and brokered deposits. The total base assessment rate ranges from 7 to 77.5 basis points of the institution’s deposits. Additionally, on May 22, 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation issued a final rule that imposed a special 5 basis point assessment on each FDIC-insured depository institution’s assets, minus its Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, which was paid on September 30, 2009. The special assessment was capped at 10 basis points of an institution’s domestic deposits. This special assessment resulted in additional noninterest expense of $478,000 during the year ended December 31, 2009. 52 Table of Contents The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has adopted a final rule pursuant to which all insured depository institutions were required to prepay their estimated assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. Under the rule, this pre-payment was due on December 30, 2009. The assessment rate for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for 2010 was based on each institution’s total base assessment rate for the third quarter of 2009, modified to assume that the assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009 had been in effect for the entire third quarter, and the assessment rate for 2011 and 2012 was equal to the modified third quarter assessment rate plus an additional 3 basis points. In addition, each institution’s base assessment rate for each period was calculated using its third quarter assessment base, adjusted quarterly for an estimated 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. Based on our deposits and assessment rate at September 30, 2009, our prepayment amount was $6.4 million. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 temporarily increased the limit on Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance coverage for deposits to $250,000, which was further extended through December 31, 2013. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation also took action to provide federal insurance coverage for newly-issued senior unsecured debt and noninterest-bearing transaction and certain NOW accounts in excess of the $250,000 limit, for which institutions will be assessed additional premiums. These actions significantly increased our noninterest expense in 2009 and will increase our noninterest expense in future years as long as the increased premiums remain in place. Future changes in interest rates could reduce our profits. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: • the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and • the interest expense we incur on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. As a result of our focus on one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, the interest rates on our loans are generally fixed for a longer period of time than the interest rates on our deposits. Additionally, many of our securities investments have lengthy maturities with fixed interest rates. Like many savings institutions, our focus on deposit accounts as a source of funds, which either have no stated maturity or shorter contractual maturities than mortgage loans, results in our liabilities having a shorter average duration than our assets. For example, as of December 31, 2009, 29.4% of our loans had maturities of 15 years or longer, while 76.3% of our certificates of deposit had maturities of one year or less. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest we earn on our assets, such as loans and investments, may not increase as rapidly as the interest we pay on our liabilities, such as deposits. In a period of declining interest rates, the interest income we earn on our assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest expense we incur on our liabilities, as borrowers prepay mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities and callable investment securities are called or prepaid, thereby requiring us to reinvest these cash flows at lower interest rates. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. 53 Table of Contents Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2009, the fair value of our available for sale securities portfolio, consisting of mortgage-backed securities issued by U.S. Government sponsored enterprises, collateralized mortgage obligations, municipal obligations, trust preferred securities, agency bonds and equity securities totaled $210.4 million. Gross unrealized gains on these securities totaled $3.1 million at December 31, 2009. We evaluate interest rate sensitivity using an Office of Thrift Supervision model that estimates the change in our net portfolio value over a range of interest rate scenarios, also known as a “rate shock” analysis. Net portfolio value is the discounted present value of expected cash flows from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet contracts. As of December 31, 2009, the Office of Thrift Supervision “rate shock” analysis indicated that our net portfolio value would decrease by $8.9 million if there was an instantaneous 200 basis point increase in market interest rates. See “Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk —Management of Market Risk.” A legislative proposal has been introduced that would eliminate our primary federal regulator, require OmniAmerican Bank to convert to a national bank or state bank, and require OmniAmerican Bancorp, Inc. to become a bank holding company. The U.S. Treasury Department recently introduced proposed legislation that would significantly change the current bank regulatory system. The proposal would create a new federal banking regulator, the National Bank Supervisor, and merge our current primary federal regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision, as well as the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the primary federal regulator for national banks) into the new federal bank regulator. The proposal would also eliminate federal savings banks and require all federal savings banks, such as OmniAmerican Bank, to elect, within six months of the effective date of the legislation, to convert to a national bank, a state bank or a state savings association. A federal savings bank that does not make the election would, by operation of law, be converted to a national bank within one year of the effective date of the legislation. If OmniAmerican Bank is required to convert to a national bank, state bank or a state savings association, OmniAmerican Bancorp, Inc. would become a bank holding company subject to regulation and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System instead of the Office of Thrift Supervision. As a bank holding company, OmniAmerican Bancorp, Inc. would become subject to regulatory capital requirements that it is not subject to as a savings and loan holding company. It would also become subject to certain additional restrictions on its activities. In addition, compliance with new regulations and being supervised by one or more new regulatory agencies could increase our expenses. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets may adversely affect our operations and results. Negative developments in the global credit and securitization markets during the past two years have resulted in a global recession and significant uncertainty in the financial markets. Loan portfolio quality has deteriorated at many institutions, reflecting in part, the severely weakened U.S. economy and rising unemployment. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. Specifically, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Quarterly Banking Profile has reported that noncurrent assets plus other real estate owned as a percentage of assets for FDIC-insured financial institutions rose to 3.32% as of December 31, 2009, compared to 1.91% as of December 31, 2008 and 0.95% as of December 31, 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Quarterly Banking Profile has reported that annualized return on average assets was 0.09% for FDIC-insured financial institutions compared to 0.03% for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 0.81% for the year ended December 31, 2007. The NASDAQ Bank Index declined 38.0% between December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2009, our noncurrent assets plus other real estate owned as a percentage of total assets was 1.35%, and our return on average assets was 0.06% for the year ended December 31, 2009. 54 Table of Contents In response to the deteriorating economy, Congress enacted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, under which the U.S. Department of the Treasury has the authority to expend up to $700 billion to assist in stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial system. Although it was originally contemplated that these funds would be used primarily to purchase troubled assets under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, in October 2008, the U.S. Department of the Treasury introduced the Capital Purchase Program and committed to purchase up to $250 billion of non-voting senior preferred shares of certain qualified financial institutions in an attempt to encourage financial institutions to build capital to increase the flow of credit to businesses and consumers, and to support the economy. In addition, Congress temporarily increased Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation deposit insurance from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor through December 31, 2013. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation also announced the creation of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program which is intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions by temporarily guaranteeing newly issued senior unsecured debt of participating organizations and fully insuring noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts (such as business checking accounts, interest-bearing transaction accounts paying 50 basis points or less, and lawyers’ trust accounts), regardless of dollar amount until June 30, 2010. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to continue to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Actions taken to date, as well as potential actions, may not have the beneficial effects that are intended. In addition, new laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes will increase our Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premiums and may also increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and may otherwise adversely affect our operations. New laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes, along with negative developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets, may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further, continued declines in the stock market in general, or for stock of financial institutions and their holding companies, may affect our stock performance. Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, which could affect our ability to grow and remain profitable on a long-term basis. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. If we must raise interest rates paid on deposits or lower interest rates charged on our loans, our net interest margin and profitability could be adversely affected. 55 Table of Contents We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Such regulators govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operations of a bank, the classification of assets by a bank, and the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations or legislation, could have a material impact on our results of operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and applicable regulations are subject to regular modification and change. There can be no assurance that proposed laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regulations, will not be adopted in the future, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 