Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is highly dependent upon our ability to identify and respond to new and changing fashion trends, customer preferences and other related factors. Fashion trends and customer tastes are volatile and can change rapidly. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to effectively identify and respond to changing fashion trends and consumer demands, and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings in a timely manner. A small number of our employees, including our divisional merchandise managers, our Senior Vice President and General Merchandise Manager and our President and Chief Executive Officer, are primarily responsible for performing this analysis and making related product purchase decisions. Failure of these employees to identify and react appropriately to new and changing trends or tastes or to accurately forecast demand for certain product offerings could lead to, among other things, excess inventories, markdowns and write-offs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business plan, results of operations and financial condition. Our square footage growth strategy depends upon our ability to successfully open and operate a significant number of new stores and convert existing stores to our larger etc! format each year in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our square footage growth strategy depends on our ability to open new stores in new markets each year and convert existing stores to the rue21 etc! format. The success of the strategy depends on many factors including, among others, our ability to: • identify suitable store locations primarily in strip centers and regional malls, the availability of which is largely outside of our control; • negotiate acceptable lease terms, desired tenant allowances and assurances from operators and developers that they can complete the project, which depend in part on the financial resources of the operators and developers; • obtain or maintain adequate capital resources on acceptable terms; • source sufficient levels of inventory at acceptable costs; 12 • hire, train and retain an expanded workforce of store managers and other personnel; • successfully integrate new stores into our existing control structure and operations, including information system integration; • maintain adequate distribution facility, information system and other operational system capabilities; • identify and satisfy the merchandise and other preferences of our customers in new geographic areas and markets; and • address competitive, merchandising, marketing, distribution and other challenges encountered in connection with expansion into new geographic areas and markets. Our failure to effectively address challenges such as these could adversely affect our ability to successfully open and operate new stores or convert existing stores to the etc! format in a timely and cost-effective manner. In addition, as the number of our stores increases, we may face risks associated with market saturation of our product offerings or operating complexity as our store base grows. To the extent our new store openings are in markets where we have existing stores, we may experience reduced net sales in existing stores in those markets. Finally, there can be no assurance that any newly opened stores will be received as well as, or achieve net sales or profitability levels comparable to those of, our existing stores in the time periods estimated by us, or at all. If our stores fail to achieve, or are unable to sustain, acceptable net sales and profitability levels, our business may be materially harmed and we may incur significant costs associated with closing those stores. Our growth strategy depends on strategic initiatives designed to increase sales and improve the efficiencies, costs and effectiveness of our operations, and failure to achieve or sustain our strategic initiatives may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. There is no assurance that we will be able to implement important strategic initiatives in accordance with our expectations, which may result in an adverse impact on our business and financial results. These strategic initiatives are designed to improve our results of operations and drive long-term shareholder value, and include expanding into new geographic markets, reducing shrink, adding technology to our stores in order to improve efficiency, and developing and expanding our merchandise assortments and selling methods. There can be no assurance we will be able to successfully integrate the planned initiatives into our existing operations profitably. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We currently have several strategies planned to improve sales and merchandise margins. There is no guarantee that the shift to new business processes will result in higher sales in our stores or improved margins for our business as a whole. Moreover, implementation of these strategies could increase costs and place a strain on our management, operational resources, and information systems. The failure of our strategies to improve sales and merchandise margins could have a material adverse impact on our business or our stock price. We experience fluctuations in our comparable store sales. Our success depends in part on our ability to improve sales. A variety of factors affect comparable store sales, including fashion trends, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of new merchandise releases and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, timing and location in the opening of stores, and weather conditions. These factors may cause our comparable store sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from expectations. Our comparable store sales have fluctuated in the past on an annual, quarterly, and monthly basis. Failure to meet the expectations of investors or securities analysts in one or more future periods could reduce the market price of our common stock. Our business is sensitive to global, national and regional consumer spending and economic conditions. Consumer purchases of discretionary retail items and specialty retail products, including our products, may be affected by economic conditions such as employment levels, salary and wage levels, the availability of consumer credit, inflation, high interest rates, high tax rates, high fuel prices and consumer confidence in future economic 13 conditions. Purchases of fashion apparel, beauty products and accessories often decline during periods when economic or market conditions are unsettled or weak. In such circumstances, we may increase the number of promotional sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Continued challenging macroeconomic conditions and rising raw material costs, such as the price of cotton, could negatively impact our vendors, which, in turn, could have an adverse impact on our business. Some of our vendors are small and specialized with limited resources, production capacities and operating histories. Rising costs of raw materials, fuel, or labor shortages could cause our vendors to slow or cease shipments or require or condition their sale of merchandise on more stringent payment terms, which could result in lost sales, cancellation charges, or excessive markdowns. Our failure to protect our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our brand image. Our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to our brand image and any negative publicity may reduce demand for our merchandise. If we or our business partners fail to comply with local laws or regulations, ethical, social, product, labor and environmental standards it could jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions or loss of business. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. We could face increased competition from other retailers that could adversely affect us and our growth strategy. The specialty retail industry is highly competitive. We compete for sales with a broad range of other retailers, including individual and chain specialty stores, department stores and discount retailers. In addition to the traditional store-based retailers, we also compete with direct marketers or retailers that sell similar lines of merchandise online and who target customers through the internet. Brand image, marketing, design, price, service, quality, image presentation and fulfillment are all competitive factors in both the store-based and internet channels. Many of our competitors have substantially greater name recognition as well as financial, marketing and other resources and therefore may be able to adapt to changes in customer preferences more quickly, devote greater resources to marketing and sale of their products, generate national brand recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. Many of our competitors also utilize traditional forms of advertising and marketing media which we do not, including advertising through use of newspapers, magazines, billboards, television and radio, which may provide them with greater brand recognition than we have. Our competitors may also sell certain products or substantially similar products through the internet or through outlet centers or discount stores, increasing the competitive pricing pressure for those products. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. Our expansion into markets served by our competitors and entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could have a material adverse effect on us. Competitive forces and pressures may intensify as our presence in the retail marketplace grows. We do not possess exclusive rights to many of the elements that comprise our in-store experience and product offerings. Our competitors may seek to emulate facets of our business strategy and in-store experience, which could result in a reduction of any competitive advantage or special appeal that we might possess. In addition, some of our product offerings are sold to us on a nonexclusive basis. As a result, our current and future competitors may be able to duplicate or improve upon some or all of our in-store experience or product offerings that we believe are important in differentiating our stores and our customers’ shopping experience, especially those competitors with significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than ours. If our competitors were to duplicate or improve upon some or all of our in-store experience or product offerings, our competitive position and our business could suffer. 14 We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain or replace these individuals or recruit additional personnel, which could harm our business. Much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of senior management personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key senior management personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects, as we may not be able to find suitable individuals to replace such personnel on a timely basis. In addition, any such departure could be viewed in a negative light by investors and analysts, which could cause our common stock price to decline. Failure to attract and retain qualified field and store management and to control labor costs, as well as other labor issues, could adversely affect our financial performance. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of store employees, including store managers, who understand and appreciate our corporate culture and customers, and are able to adequately and effectively represent our culture and establish credibility with our customers. If we are unable to hire and retain store personnel capable of consistently providing a high level of customer service, our ability to open new stores may be impaired, the performance of our existing and new stores could be materially adversely affected and our brand image may be negatively impacted. We are also dependent upon temporary personnel to adequately staff our stores and distribution facility. Any failure to meet our staffing needs or any material increases in employee turnover rates could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Currently, none of our employees is represented by a union. However, our employees have the right at any time under the National Labor Relations Act to form or affiliate with a union. If some or all our workforce were to become unionized and the terms of the collective bargaining agreement were significantly different from our current compensation arrangements, it could increase our costs and adversely impact our profitability. In addition, we are evaluating the potential future impact of recently enacted comprehensive healthcare reform legislation, which will likely cause our healthcare costs to increase. Our ability to attract customers to our stores that are located in strip centers, regional malls and outlet centers depends heavily on the success of the shopping centers in which our stores are located, and any decrease in customer traffic in these shopping centers could cause our net sales to be less than expected. Our sales are derived, to a significant degree, from the volume of traffic in the shopping centers where our stores are located. We benefit from the ability of other shopping centers’ tenants, particularly anchor stores such as Walmart, Target and Kohl’s, to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores and the continuing popularity of the strip centers, regional malls and outlet centers as shopping destinations. Our sales volume and traffic may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns nationally or regionally, high fuel prices, increased competition, changes in consumer demographics, a decrease in popularity of shopping centers or of stores in the shopping centers in which our stores are located, the closing of anchor stores important to our business, or a deterioration in the financial condition of shopping center operators or developers which could, for example, limit their ability to finance shopping center improvements for us and other retailers. A reduction in consumer traffic as a result of any of these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on us. We plan to use cash from operations to fund our expanding business and execute on our growth strategy and risks associated with leasing substantial amounts of space, including future increases in occupancy costs, could have a negative impact on our cash flow. To support our expanding business and execute our growth strategy, we will need significant amounts of cash from operations, including funds to pay our lease obligations, build out new store space, purchase inventory, pay personnel, further invest in our infrastructure and facilities, and pay for the increased costs associated with operating as a public company. In particular, payments under the operating leases associated with our stores and our distribution facility account for a significant portion of our operating expenses. 15 Our substantial operating lease obligations could have significant negative consequences, including: • requiring that a substantial portion of our available cash be applied to pay our rental obligations, thus reducing cash available for other purposes; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business or in the industry in which we compete; and • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing. Any of these consequences could place us at a disadvantage with respect to our competitors. We depend on cash flow from operations to pay our lease expenses and to fulfill our other cash needs. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund these activities or we experience working capital leverage deterioration, and sufficient funds are not otherwise available to us under our senior secured credit facility, we may need additional equity or debt financing. If such financing is not available to us on satisfactory terms, our ability to run and expand our business or to respond to competitive pressures would be limited and we could be required to delay, significantly curtail or eliminate planned store openings or operations or other elements of our growth strategy. Additional sites that we lease may be subject to long-term non-cancelable leases if we are unable to negotiate our current standard lease terms. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. Moreover, even if a lease has an early cancellation clause, we may not satisfy the contractual requirements for early cancellation under that lease. Our inability to enter into new leases or renew existing leases on terms acceptable to us or be released from our obligations under leases for stores that we close would materially adversely affect us. Accounting regulatory authorities have indicated that they may begin to require lessees to capitalize operating leases in their financial statements in the next few years. If adopted, such a change would require us to record a significant amount of lease related assets and liabilities on our balance sheet and make other changes to the recording and classification of lease related expenses on our statement of operations and cash flows. This and other future changes to accounting rules or regulations or the questioning of current accounting practices in regard to leases may materially impact the presentation of our results of operations. Our ability to obtain merchandise at competitive prices depends primarily on our sourcing relationships and the ability of our vendors to manufacture and supply us with merchandise, and any events that adversely affect our vendors or their ability to obtain financing for their operations could disrupt merchandise deliveries and result in lost sales and profitability. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. We purchase all of our merchandise from third-party vendors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on acceptable terms or at all in the future, especially if we need significantly greater amounts of inventory in connection with the growth of our business. Any inability to acquire suitable merchandise in sufficient quantities and at acceptable prices, in particular exclusive merchandise, due to the loss of or deterioration or change in our relationship with one or more key vendors, or events harmful to our vendors, may materially adversely affect us. In addition, increased orders may negatively impact our approach of generally striving to minimize the time from purchase order to product delivery, and may increase our markdown risk. We generally have no long-term purchase contracts or other contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products. Any of our vendors could discontinue supplying us with desired products in sufficient quantities for a variety of reasons. The benefits we currently experience from our vendor relationships could be adversely affected if our vendors: • choose to discontinue selling non-exclusive or exclusive products to us; • refuse to allow us to return merchandise purchased from them; 16 • raise the prices they charge us; • sell similar or identical products to certain of our competitors, many of whom purchase products in significantly greater volume and, in some cases, at lower prices than we do; • enter into arrangements with competitors that could impair our ability to sell their products, including by giving our competitors exclusive licensing arrangements or exclusive access to styles, brands and products or limiting our access to such arrangements or styles, brands or products; • initiate or expand sales of their products through their own stores or through the Internet to the retail market and therefore compete with us directly; or • sell their products through outlet centers or discount stores, increasing the competitive pricing pressure we face. So long as we purchase merchandise from domestic vendors who source products overseas, any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from Asia, Central America or elsewhere, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, could materially harm our operations. Many of our imports are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of certain types of goods that may be imported into the United States from countries in Asia, Central America or elsewhere. We compete with other companies for production facilities and import quota capacity. New initiatives may be proposed impacting the trading status of certain countries and may include retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions which, if enacted, would limit or reduce the products purchased from suppliers in such countries. Our vendors’ sourcing operations may also be hurt by political and financial instability, strikes, health concerns regarding infectious diseases in countries in which our merchandise is produced, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters that may occur in Asia, Central America or elsewhere or acts of war or terrorism in the United States or worldwide, to the extent these acts affect the production, shipment or receipt of merchandise. Our future operations and performance will be subject to these factors, which are beyond our control, and these factors could materially hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations or may require us to modify our current business practices or incur increased costs. We may suffer risks if our vendors fail to follow our vendor guidelines, including the risk that a vendor or a manufacturer may fail to use acceptable labor practices or comply with other applicable laws. Many of the products sold in our stores are manufactured outside of the United States, which may increase the risk that the labor, manufacturing safety and other practices followed by the manufacturers of these products may differ from those generally accepted in the United States. Although we require each of our vendors to sign a purchase order and vendor agreement that requires adherence to accepted labor practices and compliance with labor, manufacturing safety and other laws, we do not supervise, control or audit our vendors or the manufacturers that produce the merchandise we sell to our customers, and we have no direct relationship and very limited contact with any of the manufacturers. The violation of such labor, manufacturing safety or other laws by any of our vendors or these manufacturers, or the divergence of the labor practices followed by any of our vendors or these manufacturers from those generally accepted in the United States, could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt, the shipment of finished products to us or damage our brand image and/or subject us to boycotts by our customers or activist groups. Our net sales and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis or due to store events or promotions, leaving our operating results particularly susceptible to changes in seasonal shopping patterns and related risks. Our net sales are typically disproportionately higher during the back-to-school and winter holiday seasons. Any significant decrease in net sales during the back-to-school or winter holiday seasons would have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, in order to prepare for these seasons, we must order and keep in stock significantly more merchandise than we carry during other parts of the year. This inventory build-up may require us to expend cash faster than is generated by our operations during this period. Any unanticipated decrease in demand for our products during these peak shopping seasons could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability, ability to repay any indebtedness and our brand image. 17 In addition, we may experience variability in net sales as a result of a variety of other factors, including the timing of new store openings, store events, promotions or other marketing activities, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate on a quarterly basis and relative to corresponding periods in prior years. A significant disruption to our distribution network or to the timely receipt of inventory could adversely impact sales or increase our transportation costs, which would decrease our profits. Our only distribution facility is located in Weirton, West Virginia. Our distribution facility supports our entire business. All of our merchandise is shipped to the distribution facility from our vendors, and then packaged and shipped from our distribution facility to our stores. The success of our stores depends on their timely receipt of merchandise. The efficient flow of our merchandise requires that we have adequate capacity and fulfillment in our distribution facility to support our current level of operations, and the anticipated increased levels that may follow from our growth plans. If we encounter difficulties associated with our distribution facility or if it were to shut down for any reason, including by fire, natural disaster, or a prolonged shutdown, we could face shortages of inventory, resulting in “out-of-stock” conditions in our stores, and incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing merchandise to our stores. This could have a material adverse effect on our business and harm our reputation. In addition, our failure to provide adequate order fulfillment and secure additional distribution capacity when necessary could impede our growth plans, and the further increase of this capacity would increase our costs. We currently rely upon independent third-party transportation providers for substantially all of our product shipments, including shipments to all of our stores. Our utilization of their delivery services for shipments, or those of any other shipping companies we may elect to use, is subject to risks, including increases in fuel prices, which would increase our shipping costs, and employee strikes and inclement weather, which may impact the shipping company’s abilities to provide delivery services that adequately meet our shipping needs. If we change shipping companies, we could face logistical difficulties that could adversely affect deliveries and we would incur costs and expend resources in connection with such change. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as those received from the independent third-party transportation providers we currently use, which in turn would increase our costs. We rely heavily on information technology systems and any failure, inadequacy, or interruption of those systems could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. We rely heavily on information technology systems across our operations, including for management of our supply chain, point-of-sale processing in our stores, our financial accounting and reporting, compensating our employees, managing our website and various other processes and transactions. See “Business — Management Information Systems.” Our ability to effectively manage our business and coordinate the sourcing, distribution and sale of our merchandise depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. System security risk issues could disrupt our information technology services, and any such disruption could harm our net sales, increase our expenses, and harm our reputation and stock price. Through our operations, we collect and store certain personal information that our customers provide to enroll in promotional programs, register on our website, or otherwise communicate and interact with us. We may request customer zip codes to assist in site selection or place customers on email distribution lists at their request. In addition, we rely on third party technology and systems in certain aspects of our businesses, including to securely transmit confidential information. Despite instituted safeguards for the protection of such information, security could be compromised and confidential customer or business information misappropriated. Loss of customer or business information could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and expose us to claims from customers, financial institutions, payment card associations and other persons, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, compliance with more stringent privacy and information security laws and standards may result in significant expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes. 18 There are claims made against us from time to time that can result in litigation or regulatory proceedings which could distract management from our business activities and result in significant liability or damage to our brand image. As a growing company with expanding operations, we increasingly face the risk of litigation and other claims against us. Our business is subject to the risk of litigation by employees, consumers, suppliers, competitors, shareholders, government agencies and others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. The number of employment-related class actions filed each year has continued to increase, and recent changes and proposed changes in Federal and state laws may cause claims to rise even more. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits, regulatory actions and intellectual property claims, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to these lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. In addition, certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our financial statements as a whole or may negatively affect our operating results if changes to our business operation are required. The cost to defend future litigation may be significant. There also may be adverse publicity associated with litigation that could negatively affect customer perception of our business, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. We cannot predict or determine the ultimate outcome of any legal or administrative proceedings to which we are now subject or may become subject in the future or quantify the loss, expense or other amounts attributable to any such matter. The resolution of any future legal claims and administrative proceedings, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations. We may be subject to liability if we infringe upon the trademarks or other intellectual property rights of third parties. We sometimes purchase merchandise from vendors who hold manufacturing and distribution rights under the terms of certain licenses or who themselves own intellectual property rights to the merchandise. In addition, we purchase merchandise that may be subject to design copyrights, design patents, or otherwise may incorporate protected intellectual property. We rely upon vendors’ representations set forth in our purchase orders and vendor agreements concerning their right to sell us the products that we purchase from them. If a third party claims to have licensing rights with respect to merchandise we purchased from a vendor, or we acquire unlicensed merchandise, we could be obligated to remove such merchandise from our stores, incur costs associated with destruction of such merchandise if the distributor or vendor is unwilling or unable to reimburse us, and be subject to liability under various civil and criminal causes of action, including actions to recover unpaid royalties and other damages and injunctions. Although our purchase orders and vendor agreement with each vendor require the vendor to indemnify us against such claims, a vendor may not have the financial resources to defend us, in which case we may have to pay the costs and expenses associated with defending such claim. Any of these results could harm our brand image and have a material adverse effect on our business and growth If we were to be found liable for any infringement, we could be required to pay substantial damages and could be subject to injunctions preventing further infringement. Such infringement claims could harm our brand image. In addition, any payments we are required to make and any injunctions we are required to comply with as a result of such infringement actions could adversely affect our financial results. Failure to comply with existing laws or regulations, or changes in such laws and regulations, including employment laws and laws related to our merchandise, could make conducting our business more expensive or otherwise change the way we do business. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations, including labor and employment, customs, truth-in-advertising, consumer protection and zoning and occupancy laws and ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of stores and warehouse facilities. Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI/DSS) and the NASDAQ stock market rules. Failure to comply 19 with such laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or the price of our common stock. Changes in international, federal, state or local laws, rules or regulations, including but not limited to laws, rules or regulations related to employment, wages, data privacy, information security, intellectual property, taxes, products, product safety, health and safety, and imports and exports, could increase the Company’s costs of doing business or otherwise impact the Company’s business. These laws and regulations are complex, continuously evolving and the related enforcement is increasingly aggressive, particularly in the state of California, which has increased the cost of compliance. If these laws and regulations were to change or were violated by our management, employees, vendors, buying agents or trading companies, the costs of certain goods could increase, we could be subject to damage to our reputation, class action lawsuits, legal and settlement costs, civil and criminal liability, restatements of our financial statements, disruption of our business and loss of customers which could hurt our business and results of operations. Any required changes to our employment practices could result in increased payroll costs, the loss of employees, reduced sales, low employee morale and harm to our business and results of operations. It is often difficult for us to plan and prepare for potential changes to applicable laws and future actions or payments related to such changes could be material to us. We may be unable to protect our trademarks or other intellectual property rights. We are not aware of any claims of infringement upon or challenges to our right to use any of our brand names or trademarks in the United States. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks or proprietary rights of others. Also, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other proprietary rights or claim that we are infringing on their proprietary rights, and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In addition, upon registration of our marks internationally, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Although we have begun to register our trademarks in some foreign countries, international protection of our brand image and the use of these marks could be limited. Other entities may have rights to trademarks that contain portions of our marks or may have registered similar or competing marks for apparel and accessories in foreign countries in which our vendors source our merchandise. There may also be other prior registrations in other foreign countries of which we are not aware. Accordingly, it may be possible for others to enjoin the manufacture, sale or exportation of our branded goods to the United States. If we were unable to reach a licensing arrangement with these parties, our vendors may be unable to manufacture our products in those countries. Our inability to register our trademarks or purchase or license the right to use our trademarks or logos in these jurisdictions could limit our ability to obtain supplies from less costly markets or penetrate new markets should our business plan change to include selling our merchandise in those jurisdictions outside the United States. Concentration of ownership among our existing executive officers, directors and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. Our executive officers, directors and our largest stockholder own, in the aggregate, approximately 36.8% of our outstanding common stock and own options that will enable them to own, in the aggregate, approximately 38.2% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions and will have significant influence over our management and policies. Two of the seven members of our board of directors are principals of Apax Partners. Funds advised by Apax Partners can take actions that have the effect of delaying a change in control of us or discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares, which could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. These actions may be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. The concentration of voting power among funds advised by Apax Partners may have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. The interests of these stockholders may not be consistent with your interests as a stockholder. 20 In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation will provide that the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL, that relate to business combinations with interested stockholders will apply to us. Section 203 of the DGCL prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination transaction with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the interested stockholder became such unless the transaction fits within an applicable exemption, such as board approval of the business combination or the transaction which resulted in such stockholder becoming an interested stockholder. The provisions of Section 203 of the DGCL may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer or other transaction that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the doctrine of corporate opportunity does not apply to Apax Partners, funds advised by Apax Partners, or any of our directors who are employees of or affiliated with Apax Partners, acting on Apax Partners’ behalf, or funds advised by Apax Partners, in a manner that would prohibit them from investing or participating in competing businesses. To the extent they invest in such other businesses, Apax Partners or funds advised by Apax Partners may have differing interests than our other stockholders. Our stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance or other factors. Our stock price may fluctuate substantially as a result of quarter to quarter variations in our actual or projected performance or the financial performance of other companies in the retail industry. In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many retail and other stocks and that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions: • establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board of directors are elected at one time; • authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter, or repeal our amended and restated bylaws; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 21 