ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Readers should carefully consider the following risks prior to making an investment decision regarding OBA Financial Services, Inc. The following risk factors may cause future earnings to be lower or the financial condition less favorable than Management expects. In addition, other risks of which Management is not currently aware or which Management does not believe to be material, may cause earnings to be lower or may cause the financial condition to be worse than expected. Please consider all information contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as, the documents incorporated by reference. 19 Table of Contents The Company intends to continue its emphasis on commercial real estate and commercial business loan originations. Credit risk will increase and a continued downturn in the local real estate market or the local or national economy could adversely affect earnings. The Company intends to continue its recent emphasis on originating commercial real estate and commercial business loans. Commercial real estate and commercial business loans generally have more risk than the one- to four-family residential real estate loans that we originate. Because the repayment of commercial real estate and commercial business loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower’s properties or related businesses, repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the local real estate market or economy. Commercial real estate and commercial business loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of related borrowers. A downturn in the real estate market or the local economy could adversely affect the value of properties securing the loan or the revenues from the borrower’s business, thereby increasing the risk of nonperforming loans. As the Company’s commercial real estate and commercial business loan portfolios increase, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans may also increase. This increasing risk has contributed to the Company’s need to increase the allowance for loan losses through charges to earnings. Future increases in commercial real estate loans and commercial loans may require additional increases in the Company’s allowance for loan losses through charges to earnings. The Company has increased its origination and retaining in its portfolio one- to four-family residential real estate loans. A continued downturn in the local real estate market and economy could adversely affect earnings. The Company has increased its origination and retention in the portfolio of one- to four residential loans. Although the local real estate market and economy have performed better than many other markets, a continued downturn could cause higher unemployment, more delinquencies, and could adversely affect the value of properties securing loans. In addition, the real estate market may take longer to recover or not recover to previous levels. These risks increase the probability of an adverse impact on the Company’s financial results as fewer borrowers would be eligible to borrow and property values could be below necessary levels required for adequate coverage on the requested loan. A significant portion of the commercial business loan portfolio is unseasoned. The Company has grown its commercial business loan portfolio to $35.9 million, or 12.7%, of the total loan portfolio, at June 30, 2011 from $5.7 million, or 1.9% of the total loan portfolio, at June 30, 2008. The future performance of this portion of the loan portfolio is difficult to assess due to the recent origination of many of these loans. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above the Company’s historical experience, which could adversely affect future performance. If the Company’s allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, earnings could be adversely affected. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of the Company’s borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of the Company’s loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, Management reviews the loans and the loss and delinquency experience, and evaluates economic conditions. If the assumptions are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in the Company’s loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance through charges to earnings. Material additions to the allowance could materially decrease the Company’s net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require the Company to increase the allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents The Company’s branch network expansion strategy may negatively affect the Company’s financial performance. The Company intends to expand its branch network over the next five years. This strategy may not generate earnings, or may not generate earnings within a reasonable period of time. Numerous factors contribute to the performance of a new branch, such as a suitable location, qualified personnel, and an effective marketing strategy. Additionally, a new branch takes time to originate sufficient loans and generate sufficient deposits to produce enough income to offset expenses, some of which, like salaries and occupancy expense, are relatively fixed costs. Concentration of loans in the Company’s primary market area, which has recently experienced an economic downturn, may increase risk. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in Howard and Montgomery Counties, Maryland as nearly all of the Company’s loans are to customers in these markets. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in these markets have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans as well as the Company’s ability to originate new loans. As such, a further decline in real estate values in these markets would also lower the value of the collateral securing loans on properties in these markets. In addition, a continued weakening in general economic conditions, such as; inflation, recession, unemployment, or other factors beyond the Company’s control could negatively affect financial results. The Company’s 2011 Equity Incentive Plan will increase expenses and, reduce income. In May 2011, the Company’s stockholders approved the OBA Financial Services, Inc. 2011 Equity Incentive Plan. Stockholders approved the issuance of a total of 648,025 shares under the plan. No expense for this plan was recognized in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011 as no shares had been granted under the plan. Grants under the plan were issued on July 21, 2011 as described in the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K as filed with the SEC on May 17, 2011. Subsequent periods will include expenses for the 2011 equity incentive plan which will reduce income. The implementation of the 2011 Equity Incentive Plan may dilute stockholders’ ownership interest. The Company’s 2011 Equity Incentive Plan will be funded through either open market purchases of shares of common stock or from the issuance of authorized but unissued shares of common stock. The ability to repurchase shares of common stock to fund the plan will be subject to many factors, including, but not limited to, applicable regulatory restrictions on stock repurchases, the availability of stock in the market, the trading price of the stock, alternative uses for the capital, and the Company’s capital levels and financial performance. Although the Company’s current intention is to fund the plan with stock repurchases, the Company may not be able to conduct such repurchases. If the Company does not repurchase shares of common stock to fund the plan, then stockholders would experience a reduction in their ownership interest, which would total 12.3% in the event newly issued shares are used to fund stock options or awards of shares of common stock under the plan. If the Company’s investment in the common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta is classified as other-than-temporarily impaired, the Company’s earnings and stockholders’ equity could decrease. The Company owns common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta. The Company holds this stock to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta’s advance program. There is no market for Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta common stock. Certain member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank System may be subject to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In an extreme situation, the capital of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, the Company believes that there is a risk that the investment in Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta common stock could be impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment charge. 21 Table of Contents Strong competition within the Company’s market areas may limit the Company’s growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In the Company’s market areas, the Company competes with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that the Company does not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively, which could affect the Company’s ability to grow and remain profitable on a long-term basis. The Company’s profitability depends upon the continued ability to successfully compete in the Company’s market areas. If interest rates paid on deposits increase or interest rates charged on loans decrease, net interest margin and profitability could be adversely affected. For additional information see “Item 1. Business—Competition.” Higher FDIC insurance premiums and special assessments will adversely affect earnings. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule levying a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. The Company recorded an expense to reflect the special assessment. Any further special assessments that the FDIC levies will be recorded as an expense during the appropriate period. In addition, at that time, the FDIC increased the general deposit insurance assessment rate and, therefore, the Company’s FDIC insurance premium expense increased compared to prior periods. The FDIC also adopted a rule pursuant to which all insured depository institutions were required to prepay their estimated assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. This pre-payment was due on December 30, 2009. The assessment rate for 2010 was based on the Company’s total base assessment rate for the third quarter of 2009, modified to assume that the assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009 had been in effect for the entire third quarter, and the assessment rate for 2011 and 2012 will be equal to the modified third quarter assessment rate plus an additional three basis points. In addition, each institution’s base assessment rate for each period will be calculated using its third quarter assessment base, adjusted quarterly for an estimated 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. The Company recorded the pre-payment as a prepaid expense, which will be amortized to expense over three years. Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. During the past three years, the policy of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has been to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, market rates on the loans the Bank has originated and the yields on securities purchased have been at lower levels than as available prior to 2008. As a general matter, the Bank’s interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than the Bank’s interest-earning assets; which have resulted in increases in net interest income in the short term. The Bank’s ability to lower its interest expense is limited at these interest rate levels while the average yield on the Bank’s interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates in the near future. Accordingly, the Bank’s net interest income (the difference between interest income earned on assets and interest expense paid on liabilities) may decrease, which may have an adverse affect on the Bank’s profitability. Future changes in interest rates could reduce profits. The Company’s ability to make a profit largely depends on net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: • the interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and • the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Net interest income is affected by changes in market interest rates because different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to market interest rate changes. In a period of rising 22 Table of Contents interest rates, the interest income earned on assets, such as loans and investments, may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on liabilities, such as deposits causing a reduction in net interest income. In a period of declining interest rates, the interest income earned on assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest paid on liabilities causing a reduction in net interest income. Changes in market interest rates create reinvestment or prepayment risk, which is the risk that the Bank receives an amount of cashflows inconsistent with original estimates. In a declining rate environment, the risk is that Management may not be able to reinvest additional prepayments at interest rates that are comparable to the interest rates earned on the prepaid loans or securities. In an increasing rate environment, loan demand may decrease, the repayment of adjustable-rate loans may be more difficult for borrowers, and a decrease in prepayments may result in a lost opportunity to reinvest those additional cash flows at higher yields. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” Government responses to economic conditions may adversely affect our operations, financial condition and earnings. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has changed the bank regulatory framework, created an independent consumer protection bureau that has assumed the consumer protection responsibilities of the various federal banking agencies, and established more stringent capital standards for banks and bank holding companies. Bank regulatory agencies also have been responding aggressively to concerns and adverse trends identified in examinations. Ongoing uncertainty and adverse developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the effect of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulatory actions, may adversely affect the Company’s operations by restricting its business activities, including the ability to originate or sell loans, modify loan terms, or foreclose on property securing loans. These risks could affect the performance and value of the Bank’s loan and investment securities portfolios, which also would negatively affect financial performance. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations are likely to have a significant effect on the financial services industry, which are likely to increase operating costs and reduce profitability. Regulatory or legislative changes could make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive, and could cause changes to or limits on some products and services, or the way business is operated. If the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System increases the federal funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering the Bank’s operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on the Bank’s borrowers, especially business borrowers, and the values of underlying collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect the Bank’s financial performance. The Company is subject to extensive regulatory oversight. The Company is subject to extensive regulation and supervision. Regulators have intensified their focus on bank lending criteria and controls, and on the USA PATRIOT Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. There also is increased scrutiny of compliance practices generally and particularly with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. The Company’s failure to comply with these and other regulatory requirements could lead to, among other remedies, administrative enforcement actions and legal proceedings. 23 Table of Contents Recent health care legislation could increase the Company’s expenses or require the Company to pass further costs on to employees, which could adversely affect the Company’s operations, financial condition, and earnings. Legislation enacted in 2010 requires companies to provide expanded health care coverage to their employees, such as affordable coverage to part-time employees and coverage to dependent adult children of employees. Companies will also be required to enroll new employees automatically into one of their health plans. Compliance with these and other new requirements of the health care legislation will increase employee benefits expense, and may require the Company to pass these costs on to employees, which could create a competitive disadvantage in hiring and retaining qualified employees. The Company’s stock value may be negatively affected by federal regulations that restrict takeovers. For three years following the Company’s stock offering, federal regulations prohibit any person from acquiring or offering to acquire more than 10% of the Company’s common stock without prior written regulatory approval. The corporate governance provisions in the Company’s articles of incorporation and bylaws, the Bank’s Charter, and the corporate governance provisions under Maryland law, may prevent or impede the holders of the Company’s common stock from obtaining representation on the Company’s Board of Directors and may impede takeovers of the company that the board might conclude are not in the best interest of the Company or its stockholders. Provisions in the Company’s articles of incorporation and bylaws may prevent or impede holders of the Company’s common stock from obtaining representation on the Company’s Board of Directors and may make takeovers of the Company. more difficult. For example, the Company’s Board of Directors is divided into three staggered classes. A classified board makes it more difficult for stockholders to change a majority of the directors because it generally takes at least two annual elections of directors for this to occur. The Company’s articles of incorporation include a provision that no person will be entitled to vote any shares of the Company’s common stock in excess of 10% of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock. This limitation does not apply to the purchase of shares by a tax-qualified employee stock benefit plan established by us. In addition, the Company’s articles of incorporation and bylaws restrict who may call special meetings of stockholders and how directors may be removed from office. The charter of the Bank generally provides that for a period of five years from the closing of the stock offering, no person other than the Company may directly or indirectly acquire or offer to acquire the beneficial ownership of more than 10% of any class of equity security of the Bank. In addition, during this five-year period, all shares owned over the 10% limit may not be voted on any matter submitted to stockholders for a vote. Additionally, in certain instances, the Maryland General Corporation Law requires a supermajority vote of stockholders to approve a merger or other business combination with a large stockholder, if the proposed transaction is not approved by a majority of the Company’s Board of Directors. The requirement to account for certain assets at estimated fair value may adversely affect results of operations. The Company reports certain assets, including securities, at fair value. Generally, for securities that are reported at fair value, the Company uses quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize observable market inputs to estimate fair value. Because these assets are carried on the Company’s books at their estimated fair value, the Company may record losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, the Bank may face significant operational risks. The Company operates in diverse markets and relies on the ability of its employees and systems to process a high number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from the Company’s operations, including but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside the company, the execution of 24 Table of Contents unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, and business continuation and disaster recovery. Insurance coverage may not be available for such losses, or where available, such losses may exceed insurance limits. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, we could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action, and suffer damage to the Company’s reputation. The ratings downgrade of the United States Government may adversely affect the Bank. In July 2011, certain rating agencies placed the United States government’s long-term sovereign debt rating on their equivalent of negative watch and announced the possibility of a credit rating downgrade. In August 2011, one rating agency deceased their rating of the United States Government to AA+. The rating agencies, due to constraints related to the rating of the United States, also placed government-sponsored enterprises on negative watch. A downgrade of the United States credit rating would trigger a similar downgrade in the credit rating of these government-sponsored enterprises. Furthermore, the credit rating of other entities, such as state and local governments, may be downgraded if the United States’ credit rating is downgraded. The impact that these credit rating downgrades may have on the national and local economy and the Bank’s financial condition and results of operations is uncertain. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 