ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to factors discussed in the description of our business and elsewhere in this report, the following are factors that could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. While we strive to control the impact of changes in interest rates on our net income, our results of operations and financial condition could be significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits, borrowings and trust preferred securities. Because it is difficult to perfectly match the maturities and cash flows from our financial assets and liabilities our net income could be adversely impacted by changes in the level of interest rates or the slope of the Treasury yield curve. Changes in interest rates may also affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce their borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to 15 Table of Contents the rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Also, increases in interest rates may extend the life of fixed rate assets, which would restrict our ability to reinvest in higher yielding alternatives, and may result in customers withdrawing certificates of deposit early so long as the early withdrawal penalty is less than the interest they could receive as a result of the higher interest rates. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2009, the fair value of our investment and mortgage-backed securities portfolio totaled $1.067 billion. Net unrealized gains on these securities totaled $7.9 million at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2009, our interest rate risk analysis indicated that the market value of our equity would decrease by 7.1% if there was an instantaneous parallel 200 basis point increase in market interest rates. See “Item 6. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” If the allowance for credit losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral, if any, securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We may experience significant loan losses, which may have a material adverse effect on operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. If the assumptions prove to be incorrect, the allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease net income. Our emphasis on originating commercial real estate and commercial loans is one of the more significant factors in evaluating the allowance for loan losses. As we continue to increase the amount of such loans, increased provisions for loan losses may be necessary which would decrease our earnings. Bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase to the provision for loan losses or further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We could record future losses on our securities portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recognized $12.4 million of impairment losses on securities, of which $6.3 million was recognized as other comprehensive loss in the equity section of our balance sheet, and $6.1 million was recognized as noninterest expense in our income statement. At December 31, 2009, we held corporate debt securities and non-government agency collateralized mortgage obligations with unrealized holding losses of $10.4 million and $2.9 million, respectively. A number of factors or combinations of factors could require us to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that an unrealized loss that exists with respect to these securities constitutes an impairment that is other than temporary, which could result in material losses to us. These factors include, but are not limited to, continued failure by the issuer to make scheduled interest payments, an increase in the severity of the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the continuous duration of the unrealized loss without an improvement in value or changes in market conditions and/or industry or issuer specific factors that would render us unable to forecast a full recovery in value. In addition, the fair values of securities could decline if the overall economy and the financial condition of some of the issuers continues to deteriorate and there remains limited liquidity for these securities. See “Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Balance Sheet Analysis—Securities” for a discussion of our securities portfolio and the unrealized losses related to the portfolio, as well as the “Marketable Securities” and “Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments” footnotes to the audited financial statements. 16 Table of Contents Our contribution to the charitable foundation may not be tax deductible, which could reduce our profits. The Internal Revenue Service may not grant tax-exempt status to the charitable foundation. If the contribution is not deductible, we would not receive any tax benefit from the contribution. The total value of the contribution was $13.8 million, which resulted in recording an after-tax expense of $8.3 million. In the event that the Internal Revenue Service does not grant tax-exempt status to the charitable foundation or the contribution to the charitable foundation is otherwise not tax deductible, we would have to recognize additional after-tax expense of up to $5.5 million. In addition, even if the contribution is tax deductible, we may not have sufficient taxable income to be able to use the deduction fully. Under the Internal Revenue Code, a corporate entity is generally permitted to deduct charitable contributions in an amount of up to 10% of its taxable income (taxable income before the charitable contributions deduction) in any one year for charitable contributions. Any contribution in excess of the 10% limit may be deducted for federal income tax purposes over the five years following the year in which the charitable contribution was made. Accordingly, a charitable contribution by a corporate entity could, if necessary, be deducted for federal income tax purposes over a six-year period. Our taxable income over this period may not be sufficient to fully use this deduction. If the deduction is not able to be used we would have to recognize up to $5.5 million of additional after tax expense. Any future Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation special assessments or increases in insurance premiums will adversely impact our earnings. On May 22, 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation adopted a final rule levying a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. We recorded an expense of $3.3 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2009, to reflect the special assessment. Any further special assessments that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation levies will be recorded as an expense during the appropriate period. In addition, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation increased the general assessment rate and, therefore, our Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation general insurance premium expense will increase compared to prior periods. On November 12, 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation adopted a final rule pursuant to which on December 30, 2009 all insured depository institutions were required to prepay their estimated assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The assessment rate for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for 2010 was based on each institution’s total base assessment rate for the third quarter of 2009, modified to assume that the assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009 had been in effect for the entire third quarter, and the assessment rate for 2011 and 2012 would be equal to the modified third quarter assessment rate plus an additional three basis points. In addition, each institution’s base assessment rate for each period was calculated using its third quarter assessment base, adjusted quarterly for an estimated 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. We made a payment of $32.8 million to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on December 30, 2009, and recorded the payment as a prepaid expense, which will be amortized to expense over three years. We hold certain intangible assets that could be classified as impaired in the future. If these assets are considered to be either partially or fully impaired in the future, the book values of these assets would have to be written-down and the amount of the write-down would decrease earnings. We are required to test our goodwill and core deposit intangible assets for impairment on a periodic basis. The impairment testing process considers a variety of factors, including the current market price of our common shares, the estimated net present value of our assets and liabilities and information concerning the terminal valuation of similarly situated insured depository institutions. Future impairment testing may result in a partial or full impairment of the value of our goodwill or core deposit intangible assets, or both. If an impairment determination is made in a future reporting period, our earnings and the book value of these intangible assets will be reduced by the amount of the impairment. However, the recording of such an impairment loss would have no impact on the tangible book value of our shares of common stock or our regulatory capital levels. 17 Table of Contents Strong competition may limit growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. We compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors (whether regional or national institutions) have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our ability to successfully compete in our market areas. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and the Office of Thrift Supervision. Laws and regulations govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on a bank’s operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed, and capital levels to be maintained. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, new regulations or legislation or additional deposit insurance premiums could have a material impact on our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws and applicable regulations are subject to frequent change. Any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. A legislative proposal has been introduced that would eliminate the Office of Thrift Supervision, Northwest Bancshares, Inc.’s primary federal regulator, which would require Northwest Bancshares, Inc. to become a bank holding company. Legislation has been proposed that would implement sweeping changes to the current bank regulatory structure. The proposal would, among other things, merge the Office of Thrift Supervision into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. As discussed further under “Supervision and Regulation—Holding Company Regulation,” federal law allows a state savings bank that qualifies as a Qualified Thrift Lender, such as Northwest Savings Bank, to elect to be treated as a savings association for purposes of the savings and loan holding company provisions of the Home Owners’ Loan Act of 1933, as amended. Such election results in the state savings bank’s holding company being regulated as a savings and loan holding company by the Office of Thrift Supervision rather than as a bank holding company regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. If the Office of Thrift Supervision is eliminated, Northwest Bancshares, Inc. would become a bank holding company subject to regulation and supervision under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, and the supervision and regulation of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, including holding company regulatory capital requirements to which Northwest Bancshares, Inc. is not currently subject. Continued government action in response to the economic downturn may negatively affect our operations. In response to the severe economic recession, Congress adopted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, under which the U.S. Department of the Treasury has the authority to expend up to $700 billion to assist in stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial system. Although it was originally contemplated that these funds would be used primarily to purchase troubled assets under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, in October 2008 the U.S. Department of the Treasury announced the Capital Purchase Program, pursuant to which it intended to purchase up to $250 billion of non-voting senior preferred shares of qualifying financial institutions to encourage financial institutions to build capital to increase the flow of financing to businesses and consumers and to support the economy. In addition, Congress temporarily increased Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation deposit insurance from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor through December 31, 2013. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation also announced the creation of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program which is intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions by temporarily guaranteeing newly issued senior unsecured debt of participating organizations and providing full insurance coverage for noninterest-bearing 18 Table of Contents transaction deposit accounts (such as business checking accounts, interest-bearing transaction accounts paying 50 basis points or less and lawyers’ trust accounts), regardless of dollar amount until June 30, 2010. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies have responded aggressively in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, and have issued many formal enforcement orders. Current legislative and regulatory proposals include the following: limiting the size and activities of financial institutions; including regulatory capital requirements; establishing a new financial services oversight council; establishing greater government powers to regulate risk across the financial system; and establishing greater standards for and scrutiny of compensation policies at financial institutions. Actions taken to date, as well as potential actions, may not have the beneficial effects that are intended. In addition, new laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes may increase our Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premiums and may also increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise adversely affect our operations. New laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Future legislative or regulatory actions responding to perceived financial and market problems could impair our ability to foreclose on collateral. There have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount distressed borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit an institution’s ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. Were proposals such as these, or other proposals limiting our rights as a creditor, to be implemented, we could experience increased credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. In addition, there have been legislative proposals to create a federal consumer protection agency that may, among other powers, have the ability to limit our rights as a creditor. If our investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh becomes impaired, our earnings and stockholders’ equity could decrease. We are required to own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank’s advance program. The aggregate cost of our Federal Home Loan Bank common stock as of December 31, 2009 was $63.2 million. Federal Home Loan Bank common stock is not a marketable security and can only be redeemed by the Federal Home Loan Bank. Federal Home Loan Banks may be subject to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could materially lower their regulatory capital. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, we believe that there is a risk that our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh common stock could be deemed impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause our earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the amount of the impairment charge. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 