Risk Factors You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing at the end of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, business prospects, stock price, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The risks below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect us. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements, estimates and projections that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks described below. Risks Relating to Our Business Failure to effectively execute our appraisal and development projects could result in significant delays and/or cost over-runs, including the delay of any future production, which could negatively impact our operating results, liquidity and financial position. We currently have an extensive inventory of appraisal and development projects including Heidelberg, Shenandoah, North Platte, and Cameia, all of which are in the early stages of the project development life-cycle, except for our Heidelberg project. We also have made discoveries at Mavinga, Lontra, Bicuar, Orca and Diaman, which are in various stages of evaluation. Our development projects and discoveries will require substantial additional evaluation and analysis, including appraisal drilling and the expenditure of substantial amounts of capital, prior to preparing a development plan and seeking formal project sanction. First production from these development projects and discoveries is not expected for several years. All of our development projects and discoveries are located in challenging deepwater environments and, given the magnitude and scale of the initial discoveries, will entail significant technical and financial challenges, including extensive subsea tiebacks to an FPSO or production platform, pressure maintenance systems, gas re-injection systems, and other specialized infrastructure. This may include the advancement of technology and equipment necessary to withstand the higher pressures associated with producing oil and gas from Inboard Lower Tertiary horizons. 40 Table of Contents This level of development activity and complexity requires significant effort from our management and technical personnel and places additional requirements on our financial resources and internal financial controls. In addition, we have increased dependency on third-party technology and service providers and other supply chain participants for these complex projects. We may not be able to fully execute these projects due to: •inability to obtain sufficient and timely financing; •inability to attract and/or retain sufficient quantity of personnel with the skills required to bring these complex projects to production on schedule and on budget; •significant delays in delivery of essential items or performance of services, cost overruns, supplier insolvency, or other critical supply failure could adversely affect project development; •inability to advance certain technologies; •lack of partner or government approval for projects; •civil disturbances, anti-development activities, legal challenges or other interruptions which could prevent access; and •drilling hazards or accidents or natural disasters. We may not be able to compensate for, or fully mitigate, these risks. We have limited proved reserves and areas that we decide to drill may not yield hydrocarbons in commercial quantities or quality, or at all. We have limited proved reserves and our exploration portfolio consists of identified yet unproven exploration prospects based on available seismic and geological information that indicates the potential presence of hydrocarbons. The exploration, appraisal and development wells we drill may not yield hydrocarbons in commercial quantities or quality, or at all. Our current appraisal and development projects and exploration prospects are in various stages of evaluation that will require substantial additional analysis and interpretation. Even when properly used and interpreted, 2-D and 3-D seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. Exploration wells have been drilled on a limited number of our exploration prospects. In addition, we have drilled a limited number of appraisal wells on our development projects. Undue reliance should not be placed on our limited drilling results or any estimates of the characteristics of our projects or prospects, including any derived calculations of our potential resources or reserves based on these limited results and estimates. Additional appraisal wells, other testing and production data from completed wells will be required to fully appraise our discoveries, to better estimate their characteristics and potential resources and reserves and to ultimately understand their commerciality and economic viability. Accordingly, we do not know how many of our development projects, discoveries or exploration prospects will contain hydrocarbons in sufficient quantities or quality to recover drilling and completion costs or to be economically viable. Even if hydrocarbons are found on our exploration prospects in commercial quantities, construction costs of oil pipelines or FPSO systems, as applicable, and transportation costs may prevent such prospects from being economically viable development projects. We will require various regulatory approvals in order to develop and produce from any of our discoveries, which may not be forthcoming or may be delayed. Additionally, the analogies drawn by us from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields may not prove valid in respect of our drilling prospects. We may terminate our drilling program for a prospect if data, information, studies and previous reports indicate that the possible development of our prospect is not commercially viable and, therefore, does not merit 41 Table of Contents further investment. If a significant number of our prospects do not prove to be successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. To date, there has been limited exploration, appraisal and development drilling which has targeted the pre-salt horizon in the deepwater offshore West Africa and the Inboard Lower Tertiary trend in the deepwater U.S. Gulf of Mexico, areas in which we intend to focus a substantial amount of our exploration and development efforts. Our business plan requires substantial additional capital, which we may be unable to raise on acceptable terms in the future, which may in turn limit our ability to execute our development projects and achieve production, conduct exploration activities or renew our exploration portfolio. We do not currently generate any revenue from operations. We expect our capital outlays and operating expenditures to increase substantially over at least the next several years as we expand our operations. Developing major offshore oil and gas projects, especially in complex and challenging environments, continuing exploration activities and obtaining additional leases or concessional licenses and seismic data are very expensive, and we expect that we will need to raise substantial additional capital, through future private or public equity offerings, asset sales, strategic alliances or debt or project financing, before we generate any revenue from operations. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: •the scope, rate of progress and cost of our project appraisal and development activities; •the scope, rate of progress and cost of our exploration activities; •the success of our exploration activities; •the extent to which we invest in additional oil leases or concessional licenses; •oil and natural gas prices; •our ability to locate and acquire hydrocarbon reserves; •our ability to produce oil or natural gas from those reserves; •our ability to attract and retain adequate personnel; •our ability to meet the timelines for development set forth in our license agreements; •the terms and timing of any drilling and other production-related arrangements that we may enter into; •the timing of partner and governmental approvals and/or concessions; and •the effects of competition by other companies operating in the oil and gas industry. While we believe our operations will be adequately funded at current working interests through at least mid-2015, we do not currently have any commitments for future external funding and we do not expect to generate any revenue from production for several years. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Even if we succeed in selling additional securities to raise funds, at such time the ownership percentage of our existing stockholders could be diluted, and new investors may demand rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we raise additional capital through debt financing, the financing may involve covenants that restrict our business activities. If we choose to farm-out interests in our leases or licenses, we would dilute our ownership interest subject to the farm-out and any potential value resulting therefrom, and we may lose operating control over such prospects. 42 Table of Contents In order to protect our exploration and production rights in our license areas, we must meet various drilling and declaration requirements. Assuming we are able to commence exploration and production activities or successfully exploit our properties during the primary license term, our licenses over the developed areas of a prospect could extend beyond the primary term, generally for the life of production. However, unless we make and declare discoveries within certain time periods specified in the documents governing our licenses, our interests in either the undeveloped parts of our license areas (as is the case in Angola and Gabon) or the whole block (as is the case in the deepwater U.S. Gulf of Mexico) may be forfeited, we may be subject to significant penalties or be required to make additional payments in order to maintain such licenses. The costs to maintain licenses may fluctuate and may increase significantly since the original term, and we may not be able to renew or extend such licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are not successful in raising additional capital, we may be unable to execute our development projects, continue our exploration activities or successfully exploit our properties, and we may lose the rights to develop these properties upon the expiration of our licenses. Our discoveries and appraisal and development projects remain subject to varying degrees of additional evaluation, analysis and partner and regulatory approvals prior to official project sanction and production. Our use of the term "development project" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in relation to our appraisal and development activities refers to our Heidelberg, Shenandoah, North Platte and Cameia projects. Our use of the term "discoveries" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in relation to our exploration efforts refers to our existing discoveries: North Platte, Heidelberg, Shenandoah, Cameia, Mavinga, Lontra, Bicuar, Orca and Diaman and is not intended to refer to (i) our exploration portfolio as a whole, (ii) prospects where drilling activities have not discovered hydrocarbons or (iii) our undrilled exploration prospects. A discovery made by the initial exploration well on a prospect does not ensure that we will ultimately develop or produce hydrocarbons from such prospect or that a development project will be economically viable or successful. Following a discovery by an initial exploration well, substantial additional evaluation, analysis, expenditure of capital and partner and regulatory approvals will need to be performed and obtained prior to official project sanction and development, which may include (i) the drilling of appraisal wells, (ii) the evaluation and analysis of well logs, reservoir core samples, fluid samples and the results of production tests from both exploration and appraisal wells, and (iii) the preparation of a development plan which includes economic assumptions on the costs of drilling development wells, and the construction or leasing of offshore production facilities and transportation infrastructure. Regulatory approvals are also required to proceed with certain development plans. Relatively more testing and evaluation of our exploration, appraisal and development wells will be required for our projects and discoveries offshore West Africa than our projects in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico given the limited amount of drilling that has taken place in pre-salt horizons offshore West Africa. Any of the foregoing steps of evaluation and analysis may render a particular development project uneconomic, and we may ultimately decide to abandon the project, despite the fact that the initial exploration well, or subsequent appraisal wells, discovered hydrocarbons. We may not be successful in obtaining partner or regulatory approvals to develop a particular discovery, which could prevent us from proceeding with development and ultimately producing hydrocarbons from such discovery, even if we believe a development would be economically successful. We are a development stage enterprise and our future performance is uncertain. We are a development stage enterprise and will continue to be so until commencement of substantial production from our properties, which will depend upon our ability to execute the appraisal and development of our projects and progress our projects through the project appraisal and development life-cycle, including the approval of development plans, obtaining formal project sanction, achieving successful appraisal and development drilling results and constructing or leasing production 43 Table of Contents facilities and related subsea infrastructure. Our ability to commence production will also depend upon us being able to obtain substantial additional capital funding on a timely basis and attract and retain adequate personnel. We do not expect to commence production for at least several years, and therefore we do not expect to generate any revenue from production for a long time. Companies in their initial stages of development face substantial business and financial risks and may suffer significant losses. We have generated substantial net losses and negative cash flows from operating activities since our inception and expect to continue to incur substantial net losses as we continue our project appraisal and development activities, our exploration drilling program and our new venture activities. We face challenges and uncertainties in financial and commercial planning as a result of the complex nature of our business, the unavailability of historical data (particularly offshore West Africa) and uncertainties regarding the nature, scope and results of our future activities and financial commitments. In the event that our appraisal, development or exploration drilling schedules are not completed, or are delayed, modified or terminated, our operating results will be adversely affected and our operations will differ materially from the activities described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As a result of industry factors or factors relating specifically to us, we may have to change our methods of conducting business, which may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Drilling wells is speculative, often involving significant costs that may be more than our estimates, and may not result in any discoveries or additions to our future production or reserves. Any material inaccuracies in drilling costs, estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect our business. Exploring for and developing oil reserves involves a high degree of operational and financial risk, which precludes definitive statements as to the time required and costs involved in reaching certain objectives. The budgeted costs of drilling, completing and operating exploration, appraisal and development wells are often exceeded and can increase significantly when drilling costs rise due to a tightening in the supply of various types of oilfield equipment and related services. Drilling may be unsuccessful for many reasons, including geological conditions, weather, cost overruns, equipment shortages and mechanical difficulties. Exploration wells bear a much greater risk of financial loss than development wells. In the past we have experienced unsuccessful drilling efforts. Moreover, the successful drilling of an oil well does not necessarily result in a profit on investment. A variety of factors, both geological and market-related, can cause a well or an entire development project to become uneconomic or only marginally economic. Our initial drilling sites, and any potential additional sites that may be developed, require significant additional exploration and development, regulatory approval and commitments of resources prior to commercial development. We face additional risks in the Inboard Lower Tertiary Trend in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and offshore Angola and Gabon due to a general lack of infrastructure and, in the case of offshore Angola and Gabon, underdeveloped oil and gas industries and increased transportation expenses due to geographic remoteness. Thus, this may require either a single well to be exceptionally productive, or the existence of multiple successful wells, to allow for the development of a commercially viable field. If our actual drilling and development costs are significantly more than our estimated costs, we may not be able to continue our business operations as proposed and would be forced to modify our plan of operation. We contract with third parties to conduct drilling and related services on our development projects and exploration prospects for us. Such third parties may not perform the services they provide us on schedule or within budget. Furthermore, the drilling equipment, facilities and infrastructure owned and operated by the third parties we contract with is highly complex and subject to malfunction and breakdown. Any malfunctions or breakdowns may be outside our control and result in delays, which could be substantial. Any delays in our drilling campaign caused by equipment, facility or equipment malfunction or breakdown could materially increase our costs of drilling and cause an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. 44 Table of Contents Our proved reserves are estimates. Any material inaccuracies in our reserves estimates or assumptions underlying our reserves estimates could cause the quantities and net present value of our reserves to be overstated or understated. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and natural gas reserves and their value. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of crude oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Because of the high degree of judgment involved, the accuracy of any reserve estimate is inherently imprecise, and a function of the quality of available data and the engineering and geological interpretation. Our reserves estimates are based on 12-month average prices; therefore, reserves quantities will change when actual prices increase or decrease. In addition, results of drilling, testing, and production may substantially change the reserve estimates for a given reservoir over time. The estimates of our proved reserves and estimated future net revenues also depend on a number of factors and assumptions that may vary considerably from actual results, including: •historical production from an area compared with production from similar producing areas; •assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies and court rulings; •assumptions concerning future oil and natural-gas prices, future operating costs and capital expenditures; •estimates of future severance and excise taxes, workover costs, and remedial costs; For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of those reserves and estimates of the future net cash flows expected from them prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers but at different times may vary substantially. Accordingly, reserves estimates may be subject to upward or downward adjustment, and actual production, revenue and expenditures with respect to our reserves likely will vary, possibly materially, from estimates. Additionally, because our reserves estimates are calculated using volumetric analysis, those estimates are less reliable than the estimates based on a lengthy production history. Volumetric analysis involves estimating the volume of a reservoir based on the net feet of pay of the structure and an estimation of the area covered by the structure. In addition, realization or recognition of proved undeveloped reserves will depend on our development schedule and plans. A change in future development plans for proved undeveloped reserves could cause the discontinuation of the classification of these reserves as proved. Development drilling may not result in commercially productive quantities of oil and gas reserves. Our exploration success has provided us with a number of major development projects on which we are moving forward. We must successfully execute our development projects, including development drilling, in order to generate future production and cash flow. However, development drilling is not always successful and the profitability of development projects may change over time. For example, in new development projects available data may not allow us to completely know the extent of the reservoir or choose the best locations for drilling development wells. Therefore, a development well we drill may be a dry hole or result in noncommercial quantities of hydrocarbons. Projects in frontier areas may require the development of special technology for development drilling or well completion and we may not have the knowledge or expertise in applying new technology. Our efforts may result in a dry hole or a well that finds noncommercial quantities of hydrocarbons. All costs of development drilling and other development activities are capitalized, even if the activities do not result in commercially productive quantities of hydrocarbon reserves. This puts a property at higher risk for future impairment if commodity prices decrease or operating or development costs increase. 45 Table of Contents Our drilling plans are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of drilling. Our drilling plans on our acreage are scheduled our over a multi-year period. Our drilling plans depend on a number of factors, including the availability of capital and equipment, qualified personnel, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, oil prices, costs and drilling results. The final determination on whether to drill any exploration, appraisal, or development well, including the exact drilling location, will be dependent upon the factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as, to some degree, the results of our drilling activities. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the drilling locations we have identified or targeted will be drilled in the location we currently anticipate, within our expected timeframe or at all or if we will be able to economically produce oil or gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. As such, our actual drilling plans and locations may be materially different from our current expectations, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are not, and may not be in the future, the operator on all of our acreage, and do not, and may not in the future, hold all of the working interests in our acreage. Therefore, we will not be able to control the timing of exploration or development efforts, associated costs, or the rate of production of any non-operated and to an extent, any non-wholly owned, assets. Currently, we are not the operator on approximately 15% of our deepwater U.S. Gulf of Mexico blocks, and we are not the operator on the Diaba Block offshore Gabon. As we carry out our exploration and development programs, we may enter into arrangements with respect to existing or future prospects that result in a greater proportion of our prospects being operated by others. In addition, the terms of our current or future licenses or leases may require at least the majority of working interests to approve certain actions. As a result, we may have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of the prospects operated by our partners or which are not wholly-owned by us, as the case may be. Dependence on the operator or our partners could prevent us from realizing our target returns for those prospects. Further, it may be difficult for us to minimize the cycle time between discovery and initial production with respect to prospects for which we do not operate or wholly-own. The success and timing of exploration and development activities operated by our partners will depend on a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control, including: •the timing and amount of capital expenditures; •the operator's expertise and financial resources; •partner, government and regulatory approvals; •selection of technology; and •the rate of production of reserves, if any. Furthermore, even though we are the operator of Blocks 9, 20 and 21 offshore Angola, we are required to obtain the prior approval of Sonangol for most of our operational activities. This limited ability to exercise control over the operations of some of our prospects may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The inability of one or more third parties who contract with us to meet their obligations to us may adversely affect our financial results. We may be liable for certain costs if third parties who contract with us are unable to meet their commitments under such agreements. We are currently exposed to credit risk through joint interest receivables from our block and/or lease partners. As a result of our exploration success, we have a large inventory of development projects which will require significant capital expenditures and have 46 Table of Contents long development cycle times. Our partners, both in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and West Africa, must be able to fund their share of investment costs through the lengthy development cycle, through cash flow from operations, external credit facilities, or other sources, including project financing arrangements. Our partners may not be successful in obtaining such financing, which could negatively impact the progress and timeline for development. In addition to project development costs, our partners must also be able to fund their share of exploration and other operating expenses. If any of our partners in the blocks or leases in which we hold interests are unable to fund their share of the exploration and development expenses, we may be liable for such costs. In addition, if any of the service providers we contract with to conduct development or exploration activities file for bankruptcy or are otherwise unable to fulfill their obligations to us, we may face increased costs and delays in locating replacement vendors. The inability or failure of third parties we contract with to meet their obligations to us or their insolvency or liquidation may adversely affect our financial results. We are dependent on certain members of our management and technical team and our inability to retain or recruit qualified personnel may impair our ability to grow our business. Our investors must rely upon the ability, expertise, judgment and discretion of our management and the success of our technical team in identifying, discovering and developing oil reserves and progressing our development projects toward first production. Our performance and success are dependent, in part, upon key members of our management and technical team, and their loss or departure could be detrimental to our future success. You must be willing to rely to a significant extent on our management's discretion and judgment. The vast majority of our senior management and technical team's equity in us will vest and their employment agreements will expire prior to January 1, 2015. In addition, a significant portion of our employee base is at or near retirement age. Furthermore, we utilize the services of a number of individual consultants for contractually fixed periods of time. Our inability to retain or recruit qualified personnel may impair our ability to grow our business and develop our discoveries, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, as well as on the market price of our common stock. Under the terms of our various license agreements, we are required to drill wells and declare any discoveries in order to retain exploration and production rights and failure to do so may result in substantial license renewal costs or loss of our interests in the undeveloped parts of our license areas, which may include certain of our prospects. In order to protect our exploration and production rights in our license areas, we must meet various drilling and declaration requirements. In general, unless we make and declare discoveries within certain time periods specified in our various license agreements and leases, our interests in the undeveloped parts of our license (as is the case in Angola and Gabon) or the whole block (as is the case in the deepwater U.S. Gulf of Mexico) areas may lapse and we may be subject to significant penalties or be required to make additional payments in order to maintain such licenses. For example, under the Block 9 RSA, we are required to drill three exploration wells within four years of the signing of the Block 9 RSA, or March 1, 2014, subject to certain extensions. Currently, we have not drilled any exploration wells on Block 9. We have applied for an extension of the initial exploration period for Block 9 to enable us to drill an exploration well on our Loengo prospect, however, this extension is currently pending approval by Sonangol and the Angola Ministry of Petroleum. If Sonangol or the Angola Ministry of Petroleum does not approve this extension, we will forfeit our acreage on Block 9 offshore Angola, impair the $2.5 million paid for our working interest in Block 9 and may have to relinquish $45.3 million that secures work program obligations on Block 9. We can make no assurances that we will receive an extension of the initial exploration period on Block 9 or what the terms of the extension might be. It is possible we will forfeit some or all of our acreage on Block 9 offshore Angola. 47 Table of Contents Under the Block 21 RSA, in order to preserve our rights in this block, we are required to drill four exploration wells within five years of the signing of the Block 21 RSA, or March 1, 2015, subject to certain extensions. Currently, we have drilled three exploration wells on Block 21. Under the Block 20 PSC, in order to preserve our rights in the block, we will be required to drill four exploration wells within five years of the signing of the Block 20 PSC, or January 1, 2017, subject to certain extensions. Currently, we have drilled two exploration wells on Block 20. Furthermore, as required by our license agreements, within thirty days following a successful exploration well, we are required to submit a declaration of commercial well to Sonangol. Within two years after the date of the declaration of commercial well, we must submit to Sonangol a formal declaration of commercial discovery. Within three months from the declaration of commercial discovery, we are required to submit a development plan to Sonangol and the Angola Ministry of Petroleum for review and approval. Given our exploration success, we now have five complex appraisal and development projects offshore Angola, including Cameia, Mavinga, Lontra, Orca and Bicuar, each of which we must progress through the project development life-cycle in order to comply with the deadlines outlined above. Our failure or inability to meet these deadlines could jeopardize our production rights or result in forfeiture of our production rights with respect to these projects, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, as well as on the market price of our common stock. In addition, most of our deepwater U.S. Gulf of Mexico blocks have a 10-year primary term, expiring between 2016 and 2022. Generally, we are required to commence exploration activities or successfully exploit our properties during the primary lease term in order for these leases to extend beyond the primary lease term. Accordingly, we may not be able to drill all of the prospects we have identified on our leases or licenses prior to the expiration of their respective terms. Should the prospects we have identified under the licenses or leases currently in place yield discoveries, we cannot assure you that we will not face delays in drilling these prospects or otherwise have to relinquish these prospects. The costs to maintain licenses over such areas may fluctuate and may increase significantly since the original term, and we may not be able to renew or extend such licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our actual drilling activities may therefore materially differ from our current expectations, which could adversely affect our business. For each of our blocks and license areas, we cannot assure you that any renewals or extensions will be granted or whether any new agreements or leases will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or, in some cases, at all. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions and the integration of significant acquisitions may be difficult. We periodically evaluate acquisitions of prospects and licenses, reserves and other strategic transactions that appear to fit within our overall business strategy. The successful acquisition of these assets requires an assessment of several factors, including: •recoverable reserves; •future oil and natural gas prices and their appropriate differentials; •development and operating costs; and •potential environmental and other liabilities. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject assets that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the assets to fully assess their deficiencies and potential recoverable reserves. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the 48 Table of Contents seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We may not be entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and could acquire assets on an "as is" basis. Significant acquisitions and other strategic transactions may involve other risks, including: •diversion of our management's attention to evaluating, negotiating and integrating significant acquisitions and strategic transactions; •the challenge and cost of integrating acquired operations, information management and other technology systems and business cultures with those of ours while carrying on our ongoing business; •difficulty associated with coordinating geographically separate organizations; and •the challenge of attracting and retaining personnel associated with acquired operations. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. Members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our business. If our senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. If we fail to realize the anticipated benefits of a significant acquisition, our results of operations may be adversely affected. The success of a significant acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated growth opportunities from combining the acquired assets or operations with those of ours. Even if a combination is successful, it may not be possible to realize the full benefits we may expect in estimated proved reserves, production volume, cost savings from operating synergies or other benefits anticipated from an acquisition or realize these benefits within the expected time frame. Anticipated benefits of an acquisition may be offset by operating losses relating to changes in commodity prices, increased interest expense associated with debt incurred or assumed in connection with the transaction, adverse changes in oil and gas industry conditions, or by risks and uncertainties relating to the exploration prospects of the combined assets or operations, or an increase in operating or other costs or other difficulties, including the assumption of environmental or other liabilities in connection with the acquisition. If we fail to realize the benefits we anticipate from an acquisition, our results of operations may be adversely affected. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The price that we will receive for our oil and natural gas production will significantly affect our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future growth rate. The market price of oil and natural gas affects the valuation of our business and price of our common stock despite the fact that we currently do not produce or sell oil or natural gas. Historically, the oil and natural gas markets have been volatile and will likely continue to be volatile in the future. Oil and natural gas prices depend on numerous factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: •changes in supply and demand for oil and natural gas; •the actions of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries; •the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas; •speculation as to the future price of oil and the speculative trading of oil futures contracts; 49 Table of Contents •global economic conditions; •political and economic conditions, including embargoes, in oil-producing countries or affecting other oil-producing activities, particularly in the Middle East, Africa, Russia and South America; •the continued threat of terrorism and the impact of military and other action, including U.S. military operations in the Middle East; •the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production activity; •the level of global oil and natural gas inventories and oil and natural gas refining capacities; •weather conditions and other natural disasters; •technological advances affecting energy consumption; •domestic and foreign governmental regulations; •proximity and capacity of oil and natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; •the price and availability of competitors' supplies of oil and natural gas; and •the price and availability of alternative fuels. Oil and natural gas prices have fluctuated dramatically in recent times and will likely continue to be volatile in the future. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, the market price of our common stock, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. We are subject to numerous risks inherent to the exploration and production of oil and natural gas. Oil and natural gas exploration and production activities involve many risks that a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Our future success will depend on the success of our exploration and production activities and on the future existence of the infrastructure and technology that will allow us to take advantage of our findings. Additionally, our properties are located in deepwater, which generally increases the capital and operating costs, technical challenges and risks associated with exploration and production activities. As a result, our exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of seismic data through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Furthermore, the marketability of expected production from our prospects will also be affected by numerous factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, market fluctuations of prices, proximity, capacity and availability of pipelines, the availability of processing facilities, equipment availability and government regulations (including, without limitation, regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of hydrocarbons, environmental protection and climate change). The effect of these factors, individually or jointly, may result in us not receiving an adequate return on invested capital. 50 Table of Contents We are subject to drilling and other operational hazards. The exploration and production business involves a variety of operating risks, including, but not limited to: •blowouts, cratering and explosions; •mechanical and equipment problems; •uncontrolled flows or leaks of oil or well fluids, natural gas or other pollution; •fires and gas flaring operations; •marine hazards with respect to offshore operations; •formations with abnormal pressures; •pollution, other environmental risks and geological problems; and •weather conditions and natural disasters. These risks are particularly acute in deepwater drilling and exploration for natural resources. Any of these events could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental damage, impairment of our operations, delays in our drilling operations, increased costs and substantial losses. In accordance with customary industry practice, we expect to maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. We do not carry business interruption insurance. The occurrence of any of these events, whether or not covered by insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, as well as on the market price of our common stock. We are members of several industry groups that provide general and specific oil spill and well containment resources in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and offshore West Africa. Through these industry groups, as described under "Business—Containment Resources", we have contractual rights to access certain oil spill and well containment resources. We can make no assurance that these resources will perform as designed or be able to fully contain or cap any oil spill, blow-out or uncontrolled flow of hydrocarbons. Furthermore, our contracts for the use of oil spill and well containment resources contain strict indemnity provisions that generally require us to indemnify the contractor for all losses incurred as a result of assisting us in our oil spill and well containment efforts, subject to certain exceptions and limitations. In the event we experience a subsea blowout, explosion, fire, uncontrolled flow of hydrocarbons or any of the other operational risks identified above, the oil spill and well containment resources which we have contractual rights to will not prevent us from incurring losses or shield us from liability, which could be substantial and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, as well as on the market price of our common stock. The high cost or unavailability of drilling rigs, equipment, personnel, oil field services and infrastructure could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within budget. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel, often during periods of higher oil prices or in emerging areas of exploration. During these periods and within these areas, the costs of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and personnel are substantially greater and their availability may be limited. Additionally, these services may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. The high cost or unavailability of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and other oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to produce hydrocarbons will depend substantially on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Additionally, such infrastructure may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. We may be required to shut in oil wells because of the absence of a market or because access to pipelines, gathering systems or processing facilities may be limited or unavailable. If that were to occur, then we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until arrangements were made to deliver the production to market, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 51 Table of Contents Our operations will involve special risks that could adversely affect operations. Offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks specific to the marine environment, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt our operations. As a result, we could incur substantial expenses that could reduce or eliminate the funds available for exploration, development or leasehold acquisitions, or result in loss of equipment and properties. Deepwater exploration generally involves greater operational and financial risks than exploration on the shelf. Deepwater drilling generally requires more time and more advanced drilling technologies, involving a higher risk of technological failure and usually higher drilling costs. Such risks are particularly applicable to our deepwater exploration efforts in the Inboard Lower Tertiary trend and pre-salt offshore Angola and Gabon, as there has been relatively limited drilling activity in these areas. In addition, there may be production risks of which we are currently unaware. Whether we use existing pipeline infrastructure, participate in the development of new subsea infrastructure or use floating production systems to transport oil from producing wells, if any, these operations may require substantial time for installation, or encounter mechanical difficulties and equipment failures that could result in significant cost overruns and delays. Furthermore, deepwater operations generally, and operations in the Inboard Lower Tertiary and offshore West Africa trends in particular, lack the physical and oilfield service infrastructure present on the shelf. As a result, a significant amount of time may elapse between a deepwater discovery and the marketing of the associated hydrocarbons, increasing both the financial and operational risk involved with these operations. Because of the lack and high cost of this infrastructure, reserve discoveries we make in the deepwater, if any, may never be economically producible. Our operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico may be adversely impacted by tropical storms and hurricanes. Tropical storms, hurricanes and the threat of tropical storms and hurricanes often result in the shutdown of operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico as well as operations within the path and the projected path of the tropical storms or hurricanes. In the future, during a shutdown period, we may be unable to access wellsites and our services may be shut down. Additionally, tropical storms or hurricanes may cause evacuation of personnel and damage to offshore drilling rigs and other equipment, which may result in suspension of our operations. The shutdowns, related evacuations and damage can create unpredictability in activity and utilization rates, as well as delays and cost overruns, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, as well as on the market price of our common stock. The geographic concentration of our properties in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and offshore Angola and Gabon subjects us to an increased risk of loss of revenue or curtailment of production from factors specifically affecting the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and offshore Angola and Gabon. Our properties are concentrated in three countries: the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and offshore Angola and Gabon. Some or all of these properties could be affected should such regions experience: •severe weather or natural disasters; •moratoria on drilling or permitting delays; •delays in or the inability to obtain regulatory approvals; •delays or decreases in production; •delays or decreases in the availability of drilling rigs and related equipment, facilities, personnel or services; 52 Table of Contents •delays or decreases in the availability of capacity to transport, gather or process production; and/or •changes in the regulatory, political and fiscal environment. For example, in response to the Deepwater Horizon incident in 2010, the U.S. government and its regulatory agencies with jurisdiction over oil and gas exploration, including the DOI and the BOEM and BSEE, imposed moratoria on drilling operations, required operators to reapply for exploration plans and drilling permits and adopted extensive new regulations, which effectively had halted drilling operations in the deepwater U.S. Gulf of Mexico for a period of time. Additionally, oil and gas properties and facilities located in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico were significantly damaged by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005, which required our competitors to spend a significant amount of time and capital on inspections, repairs, debris removal, and the drilling of replacement wells. We maintain insurance coverage for only a portion of these risks. There also may be certain risks covered by insurance where the policy does not reimburse us for all of the costs related to a loss. We do not carry business interruption insurance. Due to the concentrated nature of our portfolio of properties, a number of our properties could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other companies that have a more diversified portfolio of properties. Regulations enacted as a result of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig accident and resulting oil spill may have significantly increased certain of the risks we face and increased the cost of operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. On April 20, 2010, the Transocean Deepwater Horizon, a semi-submersible offshore drilling rig operating in the deepwater U.S. Gulf of Mexico under contract to BP plc exploded, burned for two days and sank, resulting in loss of life, injuries and a large oil spill. The U.S. government and its regulatory agencies with jurisdiction over oil and gas exploration, including the DOI, BOEM and BSEE, responded to this incident by imposing moratoria on drilling operations and adopting numerous new regulations and new interpretations of existing regulations regarding operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Compliance with these new regulations has increased the cost of our drilling operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. The successful execution of our U.S. Gulf of Mexico business plan depends on our ability to continue our exploration and appraisal efforts. A prolonged suspension of or delay in our drilling operations would adversely affect our business, financial position or future results of operations. Furthermore, the Deepwater Horizon incident may have increased certain of the risks we face, including, without limitation, the following: •increased governmental regulation and enforcement of our and our industry's operations in a number of areas, including health and safety, financial responsibility, environmental, licensing, taxation, equipment specifications and inspections and training requirements; •increased difficulty in obtaining leases and permits to drill offshore wells, including as a result of any bans or moratoria placed on offshore drilling; •potential legal challenges to the issuance of permits and the conducting of our operations; •higher drilling and operating costs; •higher royalty rates and fees on leases acquired in the future; •higher insurance costs and increased potential liability thresholds under proposed legislation and regulations; 53 Table of Contents •decreased partner participation in wells we operate; •higher capital costs as a result of any increase to the risks we or our industry face; and •less favorable investor perception of the risk-adjusted benefits of deepwater offshore drilling. The occurrence of any of these factors, or their continuation, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or future results of operations. We face various risks associated with increased activism against oil and gas exploration and development activities. Opposition toward oil and gas drilling and development activity has been growing globally and is particularly pronounced in the United States. Companies in the oil and gas industry are often the target of activist efforts from both individuals and non-governmental organizations regarding safety, human rights, environmental compliance, sustainability, and business practices. Anti-development activists are working to, among other things, reduce access to federal and state government lands and delay or cancel certain operations such as offshore drilling and development. For example, environmental activists have recently challenged lease sales and decisions to grant air-quality permits in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico for offshore drilling. Future activist efforts could result in the following: •delay or denial of drilling permits; •shortening of lease terms or reduction in lease size; •restrictions or delays on our ability to obtain additional seismic data; •restrictions on installation or operation of gathering or processing facilities; •restrictions on the use of certain operating practices; •legal challenges or lawsuits; •damaging publicity about us; •increased costs of doing business; •reduction in demand for our products; and •other adverse effects on our ability to develop our properties. Our need to incur costs associated with responding to these initiatives or complying with any resulting new legal or regulatory requirements resulting from these activities that are substantial and not adequately provided for, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to liabilities under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that we violated the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We do business and may do additional business in the future in countries and regions in which we may face, directly or indirectly, corrupt demands by officials, tribal or insurgent organizations, or private entities. Thus, we face the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees or consultants, given that these parties may not always be subject to our control. Our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove 54 Table of Contents to be less than effective, and our employees and consultants may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. In connection with entering into our RSAs for Blocks 9 and 21 offshore Angola, two Angolan-based E&P companies were assigned as part of the contractor group by the Angolan government. We had not worked with either of these companies in the past, and, therefore, our familiarity with these companies was limited. In the fall of 2010, we were made aware of allegations of a connection between senior Angolan government officials and one of these companies, Nazaki Oil and Gáz, S.A. ("Nazaki"), which is a full paying member of the contractor group. In March 2011, the SEC commenced an informal inquiry into these allegations. To avoid non-overlapping information requests, we voluntarily contacted the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") with respect to the SEC's informal request and offered to respond to any requests the DOJ may have. Since such time, we have been complying with all requests from the SEC and DOJ with respect to their inquiry. In November 2011, a formal order of investigation was issued by the SEC related to our operations in Angola. We are fully cooperating with the SEC and DOJ investigations, have conducted an extensive investigation into these allegations and believe that our activities in Angola have complied with all laws, including the FCPA. We cannot provide any assurance regarding the duration, scope, developments in, results of or consequences of these investigations. In the future, we may be partnered with other companies with whom we are unfamiliar. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the government may seek to hold us liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. Our operations may be adversely affected by political and economic circumstances in the countries in which we operate. Our oil and gas exploration, development and production activities are subject to political and economic uncertainties (including but not limited to changes, sometimes frequent or marked, in energy policies or the personnel administering them), expropriation of property, cancellation or modification of contract rights, foreign exchange restrictions, currency fluctuations, royalty and tax increases and other risks arising out of governmental sovereignty over the areas in which our operations are conducted, as well as risks of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, piracy, guerrilla activities and insurrection. Some of these risks may be higher in the developing countries in which we conduct our activities, namely, Angola and Gabon. Our operations are exposed to risks of war, local economic conditions, political disruption, civil disturbance and governmental policies that may: •disrupt our operations; •restrict the movement of funds or limit repatriation of profits; •in the case of our non-U.S. operations, lead to U.S. government or international sanctions; and •limit access to markets for periods of time. Disruptions may occur in the future, and losses caused by these disruptions may occur that will not be covered by insurance. Consequently, our exploration, development and production activities may be substantially affected by factors which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, in the event of a dispute arising from non-U.S. operations, we may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of courts outside the U.S. or may not be successful in subjecting non-U.S. persons to the jurisdiction of courts in the U.S., which could adversely affect the outcome of such dispute. 55 Table of Contents Our operations may also be adversely affected by laws and policies of the jurisdictions, including Angola, Gabon, the United States, the Cayman Islands and other jurisdictions, in which we do business, that affect foreign trade and taxation. Changes in any of these laws or policies or the implementation thereof, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position, as well as on the market price of our common stock. The oil and gas industry, including the acquisition of exploration acreage worldwide, is intensely competitive. The international oil and gas industry is highly competitive in all aspects, including the exploration for, and the development of, new sources of oil and gas. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring exploration acreage and hiring and retaining trained personnel. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than us, which can be particularly important in the areas in which we operate. These companies may be able to pay more for productive or prospective properties and prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Furthermore, these companies may also be better able to withstand the financial pressures of unsuccessful drill attempts, delays, sustained periods of volatility in financial markets and generally adverse global and industry-wide economic conditions, and may be better able to absorb the burdens resulting from changes in relevant laws and regulations, which would adversely affect our competitive position. Our ability to acquire additional exploration prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Also, there is substantial competition for available capital for investment in the oil and gas industry. As a result of these and other factors, we may not be able to compete successfully in an intensely competitive industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, as well as on the market price of our common stock. Participants in the oil and gas industry are subject to complex laws that can affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Exploration and production activities in the oil and gas industry are subject to extensive local, state, federal and international regulations. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with governmental regulations, particularly in respect of the following matters: •licenses and leases for drilling operations; •foreign exchange and banking; •royalty increases, including retroactive claims; •drilling and development bonds and social payment obligations; •reports concerning operations; •the spacing of wells; •unitization of oil accumulations; •remediation or investigation activities for environmental purposes; and •taxation. Under these and other laws and regulations, we could be liable for personal injuries, property damage and other types of damages for which we may not maintain insurance coverage. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, these laws and regulations could change in ways that could substantially increase our costs. Any such liabilities, 56 Table of Contents penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, as well as on the market price of our common stock. Angola recently enacted a new Foreign Exchange Law for the Petroleum Sector, which requires, among other things, that all foreign exchange operations be carried out through Angolan banks, that oil and gas exploration and production companies open local bank accounts in foreign currencies in order to pay local taxes and to pay for goods and services supplied by non-resident suppliers and service providers, and also that oil and gas exploration and production companies open local bank accounts in local currency in order to pay for goods and services supplied by resident suppliers and service providers. See "Business—Laws and Regulations of Angola and Gabon—Angola" for more information. As a consequence, any foreign currency proceeds we obtain from the sale of our share of oil and gas production in Angola cannot be retained in full outside Angola, as a portion of the proceeds required to settle tax liabilities and pay for local petroleum operations-related expenses must be deposited in and paid through Angolan banks. Furthermore, until we achieve oil and gas production in Angola, we will be required to convert funds into local Angolan currency and deposit such funds in local banks in order to pay for our local petroleum operations-related expenses. There can be no assurance that a liquid foreign exchange market will continue to exist in Angola or that we won't be adversely affected by foreign exchange rate fluctuations (which we may not be able to hedge against). In addition, in order to comply with this law and related regulations, we are required to assess the residency status of our vendors and contractors in Angola to determine which rules apply to each specific vendor or contractor (whether they be resident vendors and contractors or non-resident vendors and contractors). These new rules require additional compliance efforts and costs on our and other industry participants' part, and may in some cases cause delay or other issues in connection with the acquisition of or payments for goods and services. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A cyber incident could result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption, and/or financial loss. The oil and gas industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct day-to-day operations including certain exploration, development and production activities. For example, software programs are used to interpret seismic data, manage drilling rigs, conduct reservoir modeling and reserves estimation, and to process and record financial and operating data. We depend on digital technology, including information systems and related infrastructure as well as cloud application and services, to process and record financial and operating data, communicate with our employees and business partners, analyze seismic and drilling information, estimate quantities of oil and gas reserves and for many other activities related to our business. Our business partners, including vendors, service providers, purchasers of our production, and financial institutions, are also dependent on digital technology. The complexity of the technologies needed to explore for and develop oil and gas in increasingly difficult physical environments, such as below-salt deepwater, and global competition for oil and gas resources make certain information more attractive to thieves. As dependence on digital technologies has increased, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks or unintentional events, have also increased. A cyber-attack could include gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption, or result in denial-of-service on websites. For example, in 2012, a wave of network attacks impacted Saudi Arabia's oil industry and breached financial institutions in the US. Certain countries, including China, Russia and Iran, are believed to possess cyber warfare capabilities and are credited with attacks on American companies and government agencies. Our technologies, systems, networks, and those of our business partners may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, 57 Table of Contents monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of our business operations. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period. A cyber incident involving our information systems and related infrastructure, or that of our business partners, could disrupt our business plans and negatively impact our operations. Although to date we have not experienced any cyber-attacks, there can be no assurance that we will not be the target of cyber-attacks in the future or suffer such losses related to any cyber-incident. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. We and our operations are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety regulations which may result in material liabilities and costs. We are, and our future operations will be, subject to various international, foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the emission and discharge of pollutants into the ground, air or water, the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of regulated materials and the health and safety of our employees. We are required to obtain various environmental permits from governmental authorities for our operations, including drilling permits for our wells. There is a risk that we have not been or will not be at all times in complete compliance with these permits and the environmental laws and regulations to which we are subject. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators, including through the revocation of our permits or the suspension or termination of our operations. If we fail to obtain permits in a timely manner or at all (due to opposition from community or environmental interest groups, governmental delays, changes in laws or the interpretation thereof or any other reasons), such failure could impede our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. We, as the named lessee or as the designated operator under our current and future oil leases and licenses, could be held liable for all environmental, health and safety costs and liabilities arising out of our actions and omissions as well as those of our third-party contractors. To the extent we do not address these costs and liabilities or if we are otherwise in breach of our lease or license requirements, our leases or licenses could be suspended or terminated. We have contracted with and intend to continue to hire third parties to perform the majority of the drilling and other services related to our operations. There is a risk that we may contract with third parties with unsatisfactory environmental, health and safety records or that our contractors may be unwilling or unable to cover any losses associated with their acts and omissions. Accordingly, we could be held liable for all costs and liabilities arising out of the acts or omissions of our contractors, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As the designated operator of certain of our leases and licenses, we are required to maintain bonding or insurance coverage for certain risks relating to our operations, including environmental risks. We maintain insurance at levels that we believe are consistent with current industry practices, but we are not fully insured against all risks. Our insurance may not cover any or all environmental claims that might arise from our operations or those of our third-party contractors. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by our insurance, or our third-party contractors have not agreed to bear responsibility, such accident or event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to obtain required bonding or insurance coverage at all or in time to meet our anticipated startup schedule for each well, and if we fail to obtain this bonding or coverage, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Releases to deepwater of regulated substances are common, and under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination caused by us or our 58 Table of Contents contractors, at our facilities and at any third party waste disposal sites used by us or on our behalf. These costs could be material. In addition, offshore oil exploration and production involves various hazards, including human exposure to regulated substances, including naturally occurring radioactive materials. As such, we could be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to such substances or other damage resulting from the release of regulated substances to the environment, endangered species, property or to natural resources. Particularly since the Deepwater Horizon event in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico in 2010, there has been an increased interest in making regulation of deepwater oil and gas exploration and production more stringent in the U.S. If adopted, certain proposals such as a significant increase or elimination of financial liability caps for economic damages, could significantly raise daily penalties for infractions and require significantly more comprehensive financial assurance requirements under OPA which could affect our results of operations and our financial condition. In addition, we expect continued attention to climate change issues. Various countries and U.S. states and regions have agreed to regulate emissions of greenhouse gases ("GHG"), including methane (a primary component of natural gas) and carbon dioxide, a byproduct of oil and natural gas combustion. Additionally, the U.S. Congress has in the past and may in the future consider legislation requiring reductions in GHG emissions. The EPA began regulating GHG emissions from certain stationary sources on January 2, 2011 and has enacted GHG emissions standards for certain classes of vehicles. The EPA has adopted rules requiring the reporting of GHG emissions, including from certain offshore oil and natural gas production facilities on an annual basis. In addition, in accordance with the Obama Administration's June 2013 Climate Action Plan, the EPA published proposed rules in January 2014 to regulate GHG emissions from new power plants and is expected to publish proposed GHG emissions rules applicable to existing power plants by June 2014. The regulation of GHGs and the physical impacts of climate change in the areas in which we, our customers and the end-users of our products operate could adversely impact our operations and the demand for our products. Environmental, health and safety laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become increasingly stringent over time. Our costs of complying with current and future environmental, health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from releases of, or exposure to, regulated substances may adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition. See "Business—Environmental Matters and Regulation." Non-U.S. holders of our common stock, in certain situations, could be subject to U.S. federal income tax upon the sale, exchange or other disposition of our common stock. Our assets consist primarily of interests in U.S. oil and gas properties (which constitute U.S. real property interests for purposes of determining whether we are a U.S. real property holding corporation) and interests in non-U.S. oil and gas properties, the relative values of which at any time may be uncertain and may fluctuate significantly over time. Therefore, we may be, now or at any time while a non-U.S. investor owns our common stock, a U.S. real property holding corporation. As a result, under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act ("FIRPTA"), certain non-U.S. investors may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on gain from the disposition of shares of our common stock, in which case they would also be required to file U.S. tax returns with respect to such gain. Whether these FIRPTA provisions apply depends on the amount of our common stock that such non-U.S. investors hold and whether, at the time they dispose of their shares, our common stock is regularly traded on an established securities market (such as the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE")) within the meaning of the applicable Treasury Regulations. So long as our common stock is listed on the NYSE, only a non-U.S. investor who has held, actually or constructively, more than 5% of our common stock may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the disposition of our common stock under FIRPTA. 59 Table of Contents We may incur substantial losses and become subject to liability claims as a result of future oil and natural gas operations, for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. Several external factors could arise which would significantly impact our ability to effectively insure our oil and natural gas exploration and development operations. Should legislation be passed to increase the minimum insurance limit of the OSFR policy required for future U.S. Gulf of Mexico oil and natural gas exploration, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain this insurance. The insurance markets may not provide products to financially insure us against all operational risks. For instance, civil penalties for environmental pollution can be very severe and may not be insurable. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the market price of available insurance is excessive or prohibitive relative to the risks presented. For instance, we do not purchase business interruption or wind insurance due to the market pricing. Even when insurance is purchased, exclusions in coverage, unanticipated circumstances and potentially large indemnity obligations may have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Because third-party contractors and other service providers are used in our offshore operations, we may not realize the intended protections of worker's compensation laws in dealing with their employees. Generally, under our contracts with drilling and other oilfield service contractors, we are obligated, subject to certain exceptions and limitations, to indemnify such contractors for all claims arising out of damage to our property, injury or death to our employees and pollution emanating from the well-bore, including pollution resulting from blow-outs and uncontrolled flows of hydrocarbons. Our level of indebtedness may increase and thereby reduce our financial flexibility. In December 2012 we issued $1.38 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.625% convertible senior notes due 2019 (the "notes"). The notes do not contain restrictive covenants, and we may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future in order to make investments or acquisitions or to explore, appraise or develop our oil and natural gas assets. Our level of indebtedness could affect our operations in several ways, including the following: •a significant portion or all of our cash flows, if and when generated, could be used to service our indebtedness; •a high level of indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •a high level of indebtedness may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our indebtedness could prevent us from pursuing; and •a high level of indebtedness may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for our development projects, exploration drilling program, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes. A high level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of indebtedness depends on our future performance. General economic conditions, risks associated with exploring for and producing oil and natural gas, oil and natural gas prices and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to pay the interest on our indebtedness and future working capital, borrowings or equity financing may not be available to pay or refinance such indebtedness. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our equity securities or a refinancing of our indebtedness include financial market conditions, the value of our assets and our performance at the time we need capital. 60 Table of Contents Conversions of the notes may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Holders of notes will be entitled to convert the notes at their option at any time up until the maturity date, being December 1, 2019. If one or more holders elect to convert their notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than cash in lieu of any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results. In May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, which we refer to as FASB, issued FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement), which has subsequently been codified as Accounting Standards Codification 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, which we refer to as ASC 470-20. Under ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (such as the notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the notes. As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the notes to their face amount over the term of the notes. We will report lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current period's amortization of the debt discount and the instrument's coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the notes. In addition, convertible debt instruments like the notes that may be settled in cash, stock or a combination of cash and stock are currently accounted for utilizing the if converted method, the effect of which is that conversion will not be assumed for purposes of computing diluted earnings per share if the effect would be antidilutive. Under the if-converted method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, convertible debt is antidilutive whenever its interest, net of tax and nondiscretionary adjustments, per common share obtainable on conversion exceeds basic earnings per share. Dilutive securities that are issued during a period and dilutive convertible securities for which conversion options lapse, or for which related debt is extinguished during a period, will be included in the denominator of diluted earnings per share for the period that they were outstanding. Likewise, dilutive convertible securities converted during a period will be included in the denominator for the period prior to actual conversion. Moreover, interest charges applicable to the convertible debt will be added back to the numerator. We cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the if converted method. If we are unable to use the if-converted method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the notes, then our diluted earnings per share would be reduced. 61 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and investors in our common stock could incur substantial losses. Our stock price may be volatile. The stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including, but not limited to: •to what extent our exploration wells are successful; •the price of oil and natural gas; •the success of our development operations, and the marketing of any oil and gas we produce; •regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries where we operate; •the recruitment or departure of key personnel; •quarterly or annual variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; •market conditions in the industries in which we compete and issuance of new or changed securities; •increases in operating costs, including cost overruns associated with our exploration and development activities; •analysts' reports or recommendations; •the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts; •the inability to meet the financial estimates of analysts who follow our common stock; •the issuance or sale of any additional securities of ours; •investor perception of our company and of the industry in which we compete and areas in which we operate; and •general economic, political and market conditions. A substantial portion of our total outstanding shares may be sold into the market at any time. This could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. All of the shares sold in our public offerings are freely tradable without restrictions or further registration under the federal securities laws, unless purchased by our "affiliates" as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). Substantially all the remaining shares of common stock are restricted securities as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Restricted securities may be sold in the U.S. public market only if registered or if they qualify for an exemption from registration, including by reason of Rules 144 or 701 under the Securities Act. All of our restricted shares are eligible for sale in the public market, subject in certain circumstances to the volume, manner of sale limitations with respect to shares held by our affiliates, and other limitations under Rule 144. Additionally, we have registered all shares of our common stock that we may issue under our employee and director benefit plans. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, unless pursuant to their terms these stock awards have transfer restrictions attached to them. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. 62 Table of Contents Conversion of the notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who have previously converted their notes. The conversion of some or all of the notes may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of any shares of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the anticipated conversion of the notes into shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. Holders of our common shares will be diluted if additional shares are issued. We may issue additional shares of common stock, preferred stock, warrants, rights, units and debt securities for general corporate purposes, including, but not limited to, repayment or refinancing of borrowings, working capital, capital expenditures, investments and acquisitions. We may issue additional shares of common stock in connection with complementary or strategic acquisitions of assets or businesses. We also issue restricted stock to our executive officers, employees and independent directors as part of their compensation. If we issue additional shares of common stock in the future, it may have a dilutive effect on our current outstanding stockholders. Ownership of our capital stock is concentrated among our largest stockholders and their affiliates. Our former financial sponsors collectively own approximately 26% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders have influence over all matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may limit your ability to influence corporate matters, and as a result, actions may be taken that you may not view as beneficial. Furthermore, these stockholders may sell their shares of common stock at any time. Such sales could be substantial and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could deter or prevent a change in control. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as Delaware statutes, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. These provisions, including those providing for the possible issuance of shares of our preferred stock and the right of the board of directors to amend the by-laws, may make it more difficult for other persons, without the approval of our board of directors, to make a tender offer or otherwise acquire a substantial number of shares of our common stock or to launch other takeover attempts that a stockholder might consider to be in his or her best interest. These provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Provisions of the notes could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of the notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us, or may even prevent a third party from acquiring us. For example, upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, holders of the notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their notes or any portion of the principal amount of such notes in integral multiples of $1,000. In addition, the acquisition of us by a third party could require us, under certain circumstances, to increase the conversion rate for a holder who elects to convert its notes in connection with such acquisition. By discouraging an acquisition of us by a third party, these provisions could have the effect of depriving the holders of our common stock of an opportunity to sell their common stock at a premium over prevailing market prices. 63 Table of Contents We do not intend to pay dividends on our common shares and, consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our shares appreciates. We do not plan to declare dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Consequently, investors must rely on sales of their shares of common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their investment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 