Risk Factors You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing at the end of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, business prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The risks below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect us. this Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements, estimates and projections that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks described below. Risks Relating to Our Business We have no proved reserves and areas that we decide to drill may not yield oil in commercial quantities or quality, or at all. We have no proved reserves. We have identified prospects based on available seismic and geological information that indicates the potential presence of oil. However, the areas we decide to drill may not yield oil in commercial quantities or quality, or at all. Most of our current prospects are in various stages of evaluation that will require substantial additional seismic data reprocessing and interpretation. Even when properly used and interpreted, 2-D and 3-D seismic data and visualization 40 Table of Contents techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. Exploratory wells have been drilled on only three of our prospects. Accordingly, we do not know if any of our prospects will contain oil in sufficient quantities or quality to recover drilling and completion costs or to be economically viable. Even if oil is found on our prospects in commercial quantities, construction costs of oil pipelines or floating production systems, as applicable, and transportation costs may prevent such prospects from being economically viable. Additionally, the analogies drawn by us from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields may not prove valid in respect of our drilling prospects. We may terminate our drilling program for a prospect if data, information, studies and previous reports indicate that the possible development of our prospect is not commercially viable and, therefore, does not merit further investment. If a significant number of our prospects do not prove to be successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, recent pre-salt hydrocarbon discoveries in Brazil and onshore West Africa, and the successful results of drilling achieved there, may prove not to be analogies for our properties offshore West Africa. To date, no exploratory wells have been drilled which have targeted the pre-salt horizon in the deepwater offshore Angola and Gabon. The inboard Lower Tertiary trend in the deepwater U.S. Gulf of Mexico, an area in which we intend to focus a substantial amount of our exploration efforts, has only recently been considered as a potentially economically viable production area due to the costs and difficulties involved in drilling for oil at such depths. To date there has not been commercially successful production in the Lower Tertiary trend. We may not be successful in developing commercially viable production in this trend. We face substantial uncertainties in estimating the characteristics of our prospects, so you should not place undue reliance on any of our estimates. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K we provide estimates of the characteristics of our prospects, such as the mean area (acres) and mean net pay thickness (feet), for the basins in which our prospects are located. These estimates may be incorrect, as the accuracy of these estimates is a function of the available data, geological interpretation and judgment. To date, only three of our prospects have been drilled. Any analogies drawn by us from other wells, prospects or producing fields may not prove to be accurate indicators of the success of developing reserves from our prospects. Furthermore, we have no way of evaluating the accuracy of the data from analog wells or prospects produced by other parties which we may use. It is possible that none of the drilled wells will find underground accumulations of oil. Any significant variance between actual results and our assumptions could materially affect the quantities of oil attributable to any particular group of properties. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we refer to the "mean" of the estimated data. This measurement is statistically calculated based on a range of possible values of such estimates, with such ranges being particularly large in scope. Therefore, there may be large discrepancies between the mean estimate provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our actual results. Drilling wells is speculative, often involving significant costs that may be more than our estimates, and may not result in any discoveries or additions to our future production or reserves. Any material inaccuracies in drilling costs, estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect our business. Exploring for and developing oil reserves involves a high degree of operational and financial risk, which precludes definitive statements as to the time required and costs involved in reaching certain objectives. The budgeted costs of drilling, completing and operating wells are often exceeded and can increase significantly when drilling costs rise due to a tightening in the supply of various types of 41 Table of Contents oilfield equipment and related services. Drilling may be unsuccessful for many reasons, including geological conditions, weather, cost overruns, equipment shortages and mechanical difficulties. Exploratory wells bear a much greater risk of loss than development wells. Moreover, the successful drilling of an oil well does not necessarily result in a profit on investment. With the exception of Heidelberg #2, all of the wells we plan to operate or participate in that are scheduled to be spud through mid-2010 are exploratory wells. A variety of factors, both geological and market-related, can cause a well to become uneconomic or only marginally economic. Our initial drilling sites, and any potential additional sites that may be developed, require significant additional exploration and development, regulatory approval and commitments of resources prior to commercial development. If our actual drilling and development costs are significantly more than our estimated costs, we may not be able to continue our business operations as proposed and would be forced to modify our plan of operation. Our identified drilling locations are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. Our management team has identified and scheduled drilling locations on our acreage over a multi-year period. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of equipment and capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, oil prices, costs and drilling results. The final determination on whether to drill any of these drilling locations will be dependent upon the factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as, to some degree, the results of our drilling activities with respect to our established drilling locations. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the drilling locations we have identified will be drilled within our expected timeframe or at all or if we will be able to economically produce oil from these or any other potential drilling locations. As such, our actual drilling activities may be materially different from our current expectations, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We will not be the operator on all of our prospects, and, therefore, we will not be able to control the timing of exploration or development efforts, associated costs, or the rate of production of any non-operated assets. Currently, we expect that we will not be the operator on approximately 25% of our U.S. Gulf of Mexico blocks, and we will not be the operator on the Diaba Block offshore Gabon. As we carry out our exploration and development programs, we may enter into arrangements with respect to existing or future prospects that result in a greater proportion of our prospects being operated by others. As a result, we may have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of the prospects operated by our partners. Dependence on the operator could prevent us from realizing our target returns for those prospects. Further, it may be difficult for us to pursue one of our key business strategies of minimizing the cycle time between discovery and initial production with respect to prospects for which we do not operate. The success and timing of exploration and development activities operated by our partners will depend on a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control, including: •the timing and amount of capital expenditures; •the operator's expertise and financial resources; •approval of other participants in drilling wells; •selection of technology; and •the rate of production of reserves, if any. This limited ability to exercise control over the operations of some of our prospects may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 42 Table of Contents We have no operating history and our future performance is uncertain. We are a development stage enterprise and will continue to be so until commencement of substantial production from our oil properties, which will depend upon successful drilling results, additional and timely capital funding, and access to suitable infrastructure. We do not expect to commence production until 2013 to 2015 in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico or until 2014 to 2016 offshore Angola and Gabon, and therefore we do not expect to generate any revenue from production until 2013 at the earliest. Companies in their initial stages of development face substantial business risks and may suffer significant losses. We have generated substantial net losses and negative cash flows from operating activities since our inception and expect to continue to incur substantial net losses as we continue our drilling program. We face challenges and uncertainties in financial planning as a result of the unavailability of historical data and uncertainties regarding the nature, scope and results of our future activities. New companies must develop successful business relationships, establish operating procedures, hire staff, install management information and other systems, establish facilities and obtain licenses, as well as take other measures necessary to conduct their intended business activities. We may not be successful in implementing our business strategies or in completing the development of the infrastructure necessary to conduct our business as planned. In the event that one or more of our drilling programs is not completed, is delayed or terminated, our operating results will be adversely affected and our operations will differ materially from the activities described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As a result of industry factors or factors relating specifically to us, we may have to change our methods of conducting business, which may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent on certain members of our management and technical team. Investors in our common stock must rely upon the ability, expertise, judgment and discretion of our management and the success of our technical team in identifying, discovering and developing oil reserves. Our performance and success are dependent, in part, upon key members of our management and technical team, and their loss or departure could be detrimental to our future success. In making a decision to invest in our common stock, you must be willing to rely to a significant extent on our management's discretion and judgment. The loss of any of our management and technical team members could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, as well as on the market price of our common stock. See "Management." Our business plan requires substantial additional capital, which we may be unable to raise on acceptable terms in the future, which may in turn limit our ability to develop our exploration and production plans. We expect our capital outlays and operating expenditures to increase substantially over at least the next several years as we expand our operations. Exploration and production plans and obtaining seismic data are very expensive, and we expect that we will need to raise substantial additional capital, through future private or public equity offerings, strategic alliances or debt financing, before we achieve commercialization of any of our properties. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: •the scope, rate of progress and cost of our exploration and production activities; •oil and natural gas prices; •our ability to locate and acquire hydrocarbon reserves; •our ability to produce oil or natural gas from those reserves; •the terms and timing of any drilling and other production-related arrangements that we may enter into; 43 Table of Contents •the cost and timing of governmental approvals and/or concessions; and •the effects of competition by larger companies operating in the oil and gas industry. While we believe our operations will be adequately funded through 2011, we do not currently have any commitments for future external funding and we do not expect to generate any revenue from production before 2013. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Even if we succeed in selling additional securities to raise funds, at such time the ownership percentage of our existing stockholders would be diluted, and new investors may demand rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we raise additional capital through debt financing, the financing may involve covenants that restrict our business activities. If we choose to farm-out interests in our prospects, we may lose operating control over such prospects. Assuming we are able to commence exploration and production activities or successfully exploit our properties during the primary lease term, our leases would extend beyond the primary term, generally for the life of production. If we are unable to drill an initial exploratory well or conduct such activity on such properties during this time, we may be subject to significant non-operating penalties and potential forfeiture of such properties. If we are not successful in raising additional capital, we may be unable to continue our exploration and production activities or successfully exploit our properties, and we may lose the rights to develop these properties upon the expiration of our leases. A substantial or extended decline in oil prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The price that we will receive for our oil production will significantly affect our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future growth rate. Historically, the oil markets have been volatile and will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices that we will receive for our production and the levels of our production depend on numerous factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: •changes in supply and demand for oil and natural gas; •the actions of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries ("OPEC"); •the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas; •speculation as to the future price of oil and the speculative trading of oil futures contracts; •global economic conditions; •political and economic conditions, including embargoes, in oil-producing countries or affecting other oil-producing activities, particularly in the Middle East, Africa, Russia and South America; •the continued threat of terrorism and the impact of military and other action, including U.S. military operations in the Middle East; •the level of global oil exploration and production activity; •the level of global oil inventories and oil refining capacities; •weather conditions and other natural disasters; •technological advances affecting energy consumption; •domestic and foreign governmental regulations; •proximity and capacity of oil pipelines and other transportation facilities; •the price and availability of competitors' supplies of oil; and 44 Table of Contents •the price and availability of alternative fuels. Oil prices have fluctuated dramatically in recent times and will likely continue to be volatile in the future. Lower oil prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis but also may reduce the amount of oil that we can produce economically. A substantial or extended decline in oil prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. Our inability to access appropriate equipment and infrastructure in a timely manner may hinder our access to oil markets or delay our production. Our ability to market our oil production will depend substantially on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. We also rely on continuing access to drilling rigs suitable for the environment in which we operate. The delivery of the ENSCO 8503 and Ocean Monarch drilling rigs may be delayed or cancelled, and we may not be able to gain continued access to suitable rigs in the future. In addition, we will need to secure a rig in connection with our offshore Angola operations, which will require substantial involvement with Sonangol, who may consider factors other than our drill schedule. We may be required to shut in oil wells because of the absence of a market or because access to pipelines, gathering systems or processing facilities may be limited or unavailable. If that were to occur, then we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until arrangements were made to deliver the production to market, which could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to numerous risks inherent to the exploration and production of oil. Oil exploration and production activities involve many risks that a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Our future success will depend on the success of our exploration and production activities and on the future existence of the infrastructure that will allow us to take advantage of our findings. Additionally, our oil properties are located in deepwater, which generally increases the capital and operating costs, technical challenges and risks associated with oil exploration and production activities. As a result, our oil exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of seismic data through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Furthermore, the marketability of expected oil production from our prospects will also be affected by numerous factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, market fluctuations of prices, proximity, capacity and availability of pipelines, the availability of processing facilities, equipment availability and government regulations (including, without limitation, regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of oil, environmental protection and climate change). The effect of these factors, individually or jointly, may result in us not receiving an adequate return on invested capital. In the event that our drilling programs are developed and become operational, they may not produce oil in commercial quantities or at the costs anticipated, and our projects may cease production, in part or entirely, in certain circumstances. Drilling programs may become uneconomic as a result of an increase in operating costs to produce oil. Our actual operating costs may differ materially from our current estimates. Moreover, it is possible that other developments, such as increasingly strict environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and enforcement policies thereunder and claims for damages to property or persons resulting from our operations, could result in substantial costs and liabilities, delays, an inability to complete our drilling programs or the abandonment of such drilling programs, which could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 45 Table of Contents We are subject to drilling and other operational hazards. The oil business involves a variety of operating risks, including, but not limited to: •blowouts, cratering and explosions; •mechanical and equipment problems; •uncontrolled flows of oil or well fluids; •fires; •marine hazards with respect to offshore operations; •formations with abnormal pressures; •pollution and other environmental risks; and •natural disasters. These risks are particularly acute in deepwater drilling and exploration. Any of these events could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental damage, impairment of our operations and substantial losses. In accordance with customary industry practice, we expect to maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. The occurrence of any of these events whether or not covered by insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. The development schedule of oil projects, including the availability and cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services, is subject to delays and cost overruns. Historically, some oil projects have experienced delays and capital cost increases and overruns due to, among other factors, the unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs and other essential equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services. The cost to develop our projects has not been fixed and remains dependent upon a number of factors, including the completion of detailed cost estimates and final engineering, contracting and procurement costs. Our construction and operation schedules may not proceed as planned and may experience delays or cost overruns. Any delays may increase the costs of the projects, requiring additional capital, and such capital may not be available in a timely and cost-effective fashion. Our operations will involve special risks that could adversely affect operations. Offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks specific to the marine environment, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt our operations. As a result, we could incur substantial expenses that could reduce or eliminate the funds available for exploration, development or leasehold acquisitions, or result in loss of equipment and properties. In particular, we are not intending to put in place business interruption insurance due to the fact that this is not economically viable, and therefore we may not be able to rely on insurance coverage in the event of such natural phenomena. Deepwater exploration generally involves greater operational and financial risks than exploration on the shelf. Deepwater drilling generally requires more time and more advanced drilling technologies, involving a higher risk of technological failure and usually higher drilling costs. Such risks are particularly applicable to our deepwater exploration efforts in the Lower Tertiary trend and pre-salt offshore Angola and Gabon, as there has been limited drilling activity in these areas. In addition, there may be production risks of which we are currently unaware. Whether we use existing pipeline infrastructure, participate in the development of new subsea infrastructure or use floating production 46 Table of Contents systems to transport oil from producing wells, if any, these operations may require substantial time for installation, or encounter mechanical difficulties and equipment failures that could result in significant cost overruns and delays. Furthermore, deepwater operations generally, and operations in the Lower Tertiary and offshore West Africa trends in particular, lack the physical and oilfield service infrastructure present on the shelf. As a result, a significant amount of time may elapse between a deepwater discovery and the marketing of the associated oil, increasing both the financial and operational risk involved with these operations. Because of the lack and high cost of this infrastructure, reserve discoveries we make in the deepwater, if any, may never be economically producible. Our operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico may be adversely impacted by tropical storms and hurricanes. Tropical storms, hurricanes and the threat of tropical storms and hurricanes often result in the shutdown of operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico as well as operations within the path and the projected path of the tropical storms or hurricanes. In the future, during a shutdown period, we may be unable to access wellsites and our services may be shut down. Additionally, tropical storms or hurricanes may cause evacuation of personnel and damage to offshore drilling rigs and other equipment, which may result in suspension of our operations. The shutdowns, related evacuations and damage can create unpredictability in activity and utilization rates, as well as delays and cost overruns, which may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The geographic concentration of our properties in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and offshore Angola and Gabon subjects us to an increased risk of loss of revenue or curtailment of production from factors specifically affecting the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and offshore Angola and Gabon. Our properties are concentrated in two regions: the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and offshore Angola and Gabon. Some or all of these properties could be affected should such regions experience: •severe weather; •delays or decreases in production, the availability of equipment, facilities, personnel or services; •delays or decreases in the availability of capacity to transport, gather or process production; and/or •changes in the regulatory and fiscal environment. For example, oil properties located in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico were significantly damaged by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, which required our competitors to spend a significant amount of time and capital on inspections, repairs, debris removal, and the drilling of replacement wells. Furthermore, oil properties offshore Angola and Gabon are subject to higher country risks than those properties under the sovereignty of the United States. We plan to maintain insurance coverage for only a portion of these risks. There also may be certain risks covered by insurance where the policy does not reimburse us for all of the costs related to a loss. Due to the concentrated nature of our portfolio of properties, a number of our properties could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other companies that have a more diversified portfolio of properties. Our non-U.S. operations may be adversely affected by political and economic circumstances in the countries in which we operate. Our non-U.S. oil exploration, development and production activities are subject to political and economic uncertainties (including but not limited to changes, sometimes frequent or marked, in energy policies or the personnel administering them), expropriation of property, cancellation or modification of contract rights, foreign exchange restrictions, currency fluctuations, royalty and tax increases and other 47 Table of Contents risks arising out of foreign governmental sovereignty over the areas in which our operations are conducted, as well as risks of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities and insurrection. These risks may be higher in the developing countries in which we conduct our activities, namely, Angola and Gabon. On June 8, 2009, Omar Bongo Ondimba, who had served as president of Gabon since 1967, passed away. While to date there has been little evidence of instability resulting from the succession of political and military power in Gabon, there can be no assurance that instability in the region will not result from Omar Bongo Ondimba's passing. Our operations in these areas increase our exposure to risks of war, local economic conditions, political disruption, civil disturbance and governmental policies that may: •disrupt our operations; •restrict the movement of funds or limit repatriation of profits; •lead to U.S. government or international sanctions; and •limit access to markets for periods of time. Countries in West Africa have experienced political instability in the past. Disruptions may occur in the future, and losses caused by these disruptions may occur that will not be covered by insurance. Consequently, our non-U.S. exploration, development and production activities may be substantially affected by factors which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, in the event of a dispute arising from non-U.S. operations, we may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of courts outside the U.S. or may not be successful in subjecting non-U.S. persons to the jurisdiction of courts in the U.S., which could adversely affect the outcome of such dispute. The oil and gas industry, including the acquisition of exploratory acreage in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and offshore West Africa, is intensely competitive. The international oil and gas industry, including in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and West Africa, is highly competitive in all aspects, including the exploration for, and the development of, new sources of supply. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring exploratory acreage and hiring and retaining trained personnel. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than us, which can be particularly important in the areas in which we operate. These companies may be able to pay more for productive oil properties and prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Furthermore, these companies may also be better able to withstand the financial pressures of unsuccessful drill attempts, sustained periods of volatility in financial markets and generally adverse global and industry-wide economic conditions, and may be better able to absorb the burdens resulting from changes in relevant laws and regulations, which would adversely affect our competitive position. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Also, there is substantial competition for available capital for investment in the oil and gas industry. As a result of these and other factors, we may not be able to compete successfully in an intensely competitive industry, which could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 48 Table of Contents Participants in the oil and gas industry are subject to complex laws that can affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Exploration and production activities in the oil and gas industry are subject to extensive local, state, federal and international regulations. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with governmental regulations, particularly in respect of the following matters: •licenses for drilling operations; •royalty increases, including retroactive claims; •drilling and development bonds; •reports concerning operations; •the spacing of wells; •unitization of oil accumulations; •remediation or investigation activities for environmental purposes; and •taxation. Under these and other laws and regulations, we could be liable for personal injuries, property damage and other types of damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, these laws and regulations could change in ways that could substantially increase our costs. Any such liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We and our future operations are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety regulations which may result in material liabilities and costs. We are, and our future operations will be, subject to various international, foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the emission and discharge of pollutants into the ground, air or water, the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of regulated materials and the health and safety of our employees. We are required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations, including drilling permits for our wells. There is a risk that we have not been or will not be at all times in complete compliance with these permits and the environmental laws and regulations to which we are subject. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators, including through the revocation of our permits or the suspension or termination of our operations. If we fail to obtain permits in a timely manner or at all (due to opposition from community or environmental interest groups, governmental delays, or any other reasons), such failure could impede our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. We, as the named lessee or as the designated operator under our current and future oil leases, could be held liable for all environmental, health and safety costs and liabilities arising out of our actions and omissions as well as those of our third-party contractors. To the extent we do not address these costs and liabilities or if we are otherwise in breach of our lease requirements, our leases could be suspended or terminated. We have contracted with and intend to continue to hire third parties to perform the majority of the drilling and other services related to our operations. There is a risk that we may contract with third parties with unsatisfactory environmental, health and safety records or that our contractors may be unwilling or unable to cover any losses associated with their acts and omissions. Accordingly, we could be held liable for all costs and liabilities arising out of the acts or omissions of 49 Table of Contents our contractors, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As the designated operator of our leases, we are required to maintain bonding or insurance coverage for certain risks relating to our operations, including environmental risks. We maintain insurance at levels that we believe are consistent with industry practices, but we are not fully insured against all risks. Our insurance may not cover any or all environmental claims that might arise from our operations or those of our third-party contractors. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by our insurance, or our third-party contractors have not agreed to bear responsibility, such accident or event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to obtain required bonding or insurance coverage at all or in time to meet our anticipated startup schedule for each well, and if we fail to obtain this bonding or coverage, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Releases to deepwater of regulated substances are possible, and under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination caused by us or our contractors, at our facilities and at any third party waste disposal sites used by us or on our behalf. In addition, offshore oil exploration and production involves various hazards, including human exposure to regulated substances, including naturally occurring radioactive materials. As such, we could be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to such substances or other damage resulting from the release of hazardous substances to the environment, endangered species, property or to natural resources. In addition, we expect continued attention to climate change issues. Various countries and U.S. states and regions have agreed to regulate emissions of greenhouse gases, including methane (a primary component of natural gas) and carbon dioxide, a byproduct of oil and natural gas combustion. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency announced its intention to regulate greenhouse gas emissions beginning in 2011. The U.S. federal government is actively considering national greenhouse gas regulation, having proposed bills which would require greenhouse gas emissions reductions. A final law could be adopted this or next year. The regulation of greenhouse gases and the physical impacts of climate change in the areas in which we, our customers and the end-users of our products operate could adversely impact our operations and the demand for our products. Environmental, health and safety laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become increasingly stringent over time. Our costs of complying with current and future environmental, health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from releases of, or exposure to, regulated substances may adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition. See "Business—Environmental Matters and Regulation." Non-U.S. holders of our common stock, in certain situations, could be subject to U.S. federal income tax upon the sale, exchange or other disposition of our common stock. We believe that we are, and will remain for the foreseeable future, a U.S. real property holding corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act ("FIRPTA"), certain non-U.S. investors may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on gain from the disposition of shares of our common stock, in which case they would also be required to file U.S. tax returns with respect to such gain. Whether these FIRPTA provisions apply depends on the amount of our common stock that such non-U.S. investors hold and whether, at the time they dispose of their shares, our common stock is regularly traded on an established securities market (such as the NYSE) within the meaning of the applicable Treasury Regulations. So long as our common stock is listed on the NYSE, only a non-U.S. investor who has held, actually or constructively, more than 5% of 50 Table of Contents our common stock may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the disposition of our common stock under FIRPTA. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that we violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We do business and may do additional business in the future in countries and regions in which we may face, directly or indirectly, corrupt demands by officials, tribal or insurgent organizations, or private entities. Thus, we face the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees or consultants, given that these parties may not always be subject to our control. Our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and our employees and consultants may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. In connection with entering into our Risk Services Agreements for Blocks 9 and 21 offshore Angola, two Angolan-based E&P companies were assigned to us as part of the contractor group by the Angolan government. We have not worked with either of these companies in the past, and, therefore, our familiarity with these companies is limited. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the government may seek to hold us liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. We may incur substantial losses and become subject to liability claims as a result of future oil and natural gas operations, for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. We intend to maintain insurance against risks in the operation of the business we plan to develop and in amounts in which we believe to be reasonable. Such insurance, however, may contain exclusions and limitations on coverage. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and investors in our common stock could incur substantial losses. Our stock price may be volatile. The stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including, but not limited to: •the price of oil and natural gas; •the success of our exploration and development operations, and the marketing of any oil we produce; •regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries where we operate; •the recruitment or departure of key personnel; •quarterly or annual variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; •market conditions in the industries in which we compete and issuance of new or changed securities; 51 Table of Contents •analysts' reports or recommendations; •the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts; •the inability to meet the financial estimates of analysts who follow our common stock; •the issuance of any additional securities of ours; •investor perception of our company and of the industry in which we compete; and •general economic, political and market conditions. A substantial portion of our total outstanding shares may be sold into the market at any time. This could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. All of the shares sold in our initial public offering are freely tradable without restrictions or further registration under the federal securities laws, unless purchased by our "affiliates" as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). Substantially all the remaining shares of common stock are restricted securities as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Restricted securities may be sold in the U.S. public market only if registered or if they qualify for an exemption from registration, including by reason of Rules 144 or 701 under the Securities Act. All of our restricted shares will be eligible for sale in the public market in late 2010, subject in certain circumstances to the volume, manner of sale and other limitations under Rule 144. Additionally, we have registered all shares of our common stock that we may issue under our employee and director benefit plans. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, unless pursuant to their terms these stock awards have transfer restrictions attached to them. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. The concentration of our capital stock ownership among our largest stockholders, and their affiliates. Our four largest stockholders collectively own approximately 76% of our outstanding common stock. Consequently, these stockholders have significant influence over all matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership will limit your ability to influence corporate matters, and as a result, actions may be taken that you may not view as beneficial. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could deter or prevent a change in control. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as Delaware statutes, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. These provisions, including those providing for the possible issuance of shares of our preferred stock and the right of the board of directors to amend the by-laws, may make it more difficult for other persons, without the approval of our board of directors, to make a tender offer or otherwise acquire a substantial number of shares of our common stock or to launch other takeover attempts that a stockholder might consider to be in his or her best interest. These provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We are a "controlled company" within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, we qualify for and rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Funds affiliated with First Reserve Corporation, Goldman, Sachs & Co., Riverstone Holdings LLC and The Carlyle Group, and KERN Partners Ltd. and certain limited partners in such funds affiliated with KERN Partners Ltd., respectively, control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding 52 Table of Contents common stock. Consequently we are a "controlled company" within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another person or group of persons acting together is a "controlled company" and may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that: •a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; •the nominating and corporate governance committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; •the compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and •there be an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees. We are currently treated as a controlled company and utilize these exemptions, including the exemption for a board of directors composed of a majority of independent directors. In addition, although we have adopted charters for our audit, nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees and intend to conduct annual performance evaluations for these committees, none of these committees are presently composed entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 