Item 1A. Risk Factors The risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and the Results of Operations, as well as the financial statements and the related footnotes for the Trust and the Funds. The commodity interests in which each of the Funds invests, and in which TAGS invests indirectly through the Shares of the Underlying Funds, are referred to as Commodity Interests and for each Fund individually as the specific commodity interests, e.g. Corn Interests. Risks Applicable to all Funds •Unlike mutual funds, commodity pools and other investment pools that manage their investments so as to realize income and gains for distribution to their investors, a Fund generally does not distribute dividends to Shareholders. You should not invest in a Fund if you will need cash distributions from the Fund to pay taxes on your share of income and gains of the Fund, if any, or for other purposes. •The Sponsor intends to re-invest any income and realized gains of a Fund in additional Commodity Interests, or Shares of the Underlying Funds in the case of TAGS, rather than distributing cash to Shareholders. Therefore, unlike mutual funds, commodity pools or other investment pools that generally distribute income and gains to their investors, a Fund generally will not distribute cash to Shareholders. One should not invest in a Fund if you will need cash distributions from the Fund to pay taxes on your share of income and gains of the Fund, if any, or for any other reason. Although a Fund does not intend to make cash distributions, the income earned from its investments held directly or posted as margin may reach levels that merit distribution, e.g., at levels where such income is not necessary to support its underlying investments in commodity interests, corn for example, and where investors adversely react to being taxed on such income without receiving distributions that could be used to pay such tax. Cash distributions may be made in these and similar instances. •A Fund must pay for all brokerage fees, taxes and other expenses, including licensing fees for the use of intellectual property, registration or other fees paid to the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), formerly the National Association of Securities Dealers, or any other regulatory agency in connection with the offer and sale of subsequent Shares, after its initial registration, and all legal, accounting, printing and other expenses associated therewith. Each Fund also pays the fees and expenses associated with the Trust’s tax accounting and reporting requirements. Each Fund, excluding TAGS, is also contractually obligated to pay a management fee to the Sponsor. Such fees may be waived by the Sponsor at its discretion. Accordingly, each Fund must realize interest income and/or gains on Commodity Interests sufficient to cover these fees and expenses before it can earn any profit. •To the extent that investors use a Fund as a means of investing indirectly in a specific commodity interest, there is the risk that the changes in the price of the Fund’s Shares on the NYSE Arca will not closely track the changes in spot price of that commodity interest. This could happen if the price of Shares traded on the NYSE Arca does not correlate closely with the Fund’s NAV, if the changes in the Fund’s NAV do not correlate closely with changes in the Benchmark, or if the changes in the Benchmark do not correlate closely with changes in the cash or spot price of the specific commodity interest. This is a risk because if these correlations are not sufficiently close, then investors may not be able to use the Fund as a cost-effective way to invest indirectly in the specific commodity interest, or the underlying specific commodity interest in the case of TAGS, or as a hedge against the risk of loss in commodity-related transactions. 26 •The Sponsor has limited experience operating commodity pools. The Sponsor currently sponsors seven commodity pools (the “Teucrium Funds”), all of which have commenced operations. Prior to June 9, 2010, the Sponsor had never operated a commodity pool. •Each Fund has a limited operating history, so there is limited performance history to serve as a basis for you to evaluate an investment in the Fund. •None of the Funds are an investment company subject to the Investment Company Act of 1940. Accordingly, you do not have the protections afforded by that statute, which, for example, requires investment companies to have a board of directors with a majority of disinterested directors and regulates the relationship between the investment company and its investment manager. •In managing and directing the day-to-day activities and affairs of these Funds, the Sponsor relies almost entirely on a small number of individuals, including Mr. Sal Gilbertie, Mr. Dale Riker, Mr. Steve Kahler and Ms. Barbara Riker. If Mr. Gilbertie, Mr. Riker, Mr. Kahler or Ms. Riker were to leave or be unable to carry out their present responsibilities, it may have an adverse effect on the management of the Funds. To the extent that the Sponsor establishes additional commodity pools, even greater demands will be placed on these individuals. •The Sponsor was formed for the purpose of managing the Trust, including all the Teucrium Funds, and any other series of the Trust that may be formed in the future, and has been provided with capital primarily by its principals and a small number of outside investors. If the Sponsor operates at a loss for an extended period, its capital will be depleted, and it may be unable to obtain additional financing necessary to continue its operations. If the Sponsor were unable to continue to provide services to these Funds, the Funds would be terminated if a replacement sponsor could not be found. •The Sponsor has consulted with legal counsel, accountants and other advisers regarding the formation and operation of the Trust and the Funds. No counsel has been appointed to represent you in connection with the offering of Shares. Accordingly, you should consult with your own legal, tax and financial advisers regarding the desirability of an investment in the Shares. •The Sponsor’s trading system is quantitative in nature, and it is possible that the Sponsor may make errors. In addition, it is possible that a computer or software program may malfunction and cause an error in computation. •Increases in assets under management may affect trading decisions. While all of the Funds’ assets are currently at manageable levels, the Sponsor does not intend to limit the amount of any Fund’s assets. The more assets the Sponsor manages, the more difficult it may be for it to trade profitably because of the difficulty of trading larger positions without adversely affecting prices and performance and of managing risk associated with larger positions. •Under the Trust Agreement, the Trustee and the Sponsor are not liable, and have the right to be indemnified, for any liability or expense incurred absent gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the Trustee or Sponsor, as the case may be. That means the Sponsor may require the assets of a Fund to be sold in order to cover losses or liability suffered by the Sponsor or by the Trustee. Any sale of that kind would reduce the NAV of the Fund and the value of its Shares. •The Shares of a Fund are limited liability investments; Shareholders may not lose more than the amount that they invest plus any profits recognized on their investment. However, Shareholders could be required, as a matter of bankruptcy law, to return to the estate of the Fund any distribution they received at a time when the Fund was in fact insolvent or in violation of its Trust Agreement. •You cannot be assured that the Sponsor will be willing or able to continue to service each Fund for any length of time. The Sponsor was formed for the purpose of sponsoring the Funds and other commodity pools, and has limited financial resources and no significant source of income apart from its management fees from such commodity pools to support its continued service for each Fund. If the Sponsor discontinues its activities on behalf of a Fund, the Fund may be adversely affected. If the Sponsor’s registrations with the CFTC or memberships in the NFA were revoked or suspended, the Sponsor would no longer be able to provide services to the Funds. •A Fund may terminate at any time, regardless of whether the Fund has incurred losses, subject to the terms of the Trust Agreement. For example, the dissolution or resignation of the Sponsor would cause the Trust to terminate unless shareholders holding a majority of the outstanding shares of the Trust elect within 90 days of the event to continue the Trust and appoint a successor Sponsor. In addition, the Sponsor may terminate a Fund if it determines that the Fund’s aggregate net assets in relation to its operating expenses make the continued operation of the Fund unreasonable or imprudent. However, no level of losses will require the Sponsor to terminate a Fund. The Fund’s termination would result in the liquidation of its investments and the distribution of its remaining assets to the Shareholders on a pro rata basis in accordance with their Shares, and the Fund could incur losses in liquidating its investments in connection with a termination. Termination could also negatively affect the overall maturity and timing of your investment portfolio. •A period of recession for the economy as a whole began in 2008, and the financial markets experienced very difficult conditions and volatility during that period. The conditions in these markets resulted in a decrease in availability of corporate credit and liquidity and led indirectly to the insolvency, closure or acquisition of a number of major financial institutions and contributed to further consolidation within the financial services industry. A continued recession or a slow recovery could adversely affect the financial 27 condition and results of operations of the Funds’ service providers and Authorized Purchasers, which would impact the ability of the Sponsor to achieve the Funds’ investment objectives. •Neither the Sponsor nor the Trustee is obligated to, although each may, in its respective discretion, prosecute any action, suit or other proceeding in respect of any Fund property. The Trust Agreement does not confer upon Shareholders the right to prosecute any such action, suit or other proceeding. •The arrangements between clearing brokers and counterparties on the one hand and the Funds on the other generally are terminable by the clearing brokers or counterparty upon notice to the Funds. In addition, the agreements between the Funds and their third-party service providers, such as the Distributor and the Custodian, are generally terminable at specified intervals. Upon termination, the Sponsor may be required to renegotiate or make other arrangements for obtaining similar services if the Funds intend to continue to operate. Comparable services from another party may not be available, or even if available, these services may not be available on the terms as favorable as those of the expired or terminated arrangements. •The Sponsor does not employ trading advisors for the Funds; however, it reserves the right to employ them in the future. The only advisor to the Funds is the Sponsor. A lack of independent trading advisors may be disadvantageous to the Funds because they will not receive the benefit of their expertise. •The price relationship between the near month Commodity Futures Contract to expire and the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts for each Fund, or the Underlying Funds in the case of TAGS, will vary and may impact both a Fund’s total return over time and the degree to which such total return tracks the total return of the specific commodity price indices. In cases in which the near month contract’s price is lower than later-expiring contracts’ prices (a situation known as “contango” in the futures markets), then absent the impact of the overall movement in the commodity specific prices the value of the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts would tend to decline as they approach expiration which could cause the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts, and therefore the Fund’s total return, to track lower. In cases in which the near month contract’s price is higher than later-expiring contracts’ prices (a situation known as “backwardation” in the futures markets), then absent the impact of the overall movement in commodity specific prices, the value of the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts would tend to rise as they approach expiration. •Investors, including those who directly participate in the specific commodity market, may choose to use a Fund as a vehicle to hedge against the risk of loss, and there are risks involved in hedging activities. While hedging can provide protection against an adverse movement in market prices, it can also preclude a hedger’s opportunity to benefit from a favorable market movement. •The structure and operation of the Funds may involve conflicts of interest. For example, a conflict may arise because the Sponsor and its principals and affiliates may trade for themselves. In addition, the Sponsor has sole current authority to manage the investments and operations, and the interests of the Sponsor may conflict with the Shareholders’ best interests. •You will have no rights to participate in the management of any of the Funds and will have to rely on the duties and judgment of the Sponsor to manage the Funds. •As interests in separate series of a Delaware statutory trust, the Shares do not involve the rights normally associated with the ownership of shares of a corporation (including, for example, the right to bring shareholder oppression and derivative actions).In addition, the Shares have limited voting and distribution rights (for example, Shareholders do not have the right to elect directors, as the Trust does not have a board of directors, and generally will not receive regular distributions of the net income and capital gains earned by the Fund). The Funds are also not subject to certain investor protection provisions of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and the NYSE Arca governance rules (for example, audit committee requirements). •Each Fund is a series of a Delaware statutory trust and not itself a legal entity separate from the other Teucrium Funds. The Delaware Statutory Trust Act provides that if certain provisions are included in the formation and governing documents of a statutory trust organized in series and if separate and distinct records are maintained for any series and the assets associated with that series are held in separate and distinct records and are accounted for in such separate and distinct records separately from the other assets of the statutory trust, or any series thereof, then the debts, liabilities, obligations and expenses incurred by a particular series are enforceable against the assets of such series only, and not against the assets of the statutory trust generally or any other series thereof. Conversely, none of the debts, liabilities, obligations and expenses incurred with respect to any other series thereof is enforceable against the assets of such series. The Sponsor is not aware of any court case that has interpreted this inter-series limitation on liability or provided any guidance as to what is required for compliance. The Sponsor intends to maintain separate and distinct records for each Fund and account for each Fund separately from any other Trust series, but it is possible a court could conclude that the methods used do not satisfy the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, which would potentially expose assets in any Fund to the liabilities of one or more of the Teucrium Funds and/or any other Trust series created in the future. •Each Fund seeks to have the changes in its Shares’ NAV in percentage terms track changes in the Benchmark in percentage terms, rather than profit from speculative trading of the specific Commodity Interests, or the commodity interests of the Underlying Funds in the case of TAGS. The Sponsor therefore endeavors to manage each Fund so that the Fund’s assets are, unlike those of many other 28 commodity pools, not leveraged (i.e., so that the aggregate amount of the Fund’s exposure to losses from its investments in specific Commodity Interests at any time will not exceed the value of the Fund’s assets). There is no assurance that the Sponsor will successfully implement this investment strategy. If the Sponsor permits a Fund to become leveraged, you could lose all or substantially all of your investment if the Fund’s trading positions suddenly turns unprofitable. These movements in price may be the result of factors outside of the Sponsor’s control and may not be anticipated by the Sponsor. •A Fund may invest in Other Commodity Interests. To the extent that these Other Commodity Interests are contracts individually negotiated between their parties, they may not be as liquid as Commodity Futures Contracts and will expose the Fund to credit risk that its counterparty may not be able to satisfy its obligations to the Fund. •The futures markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and requirements. In addition, the CFTC and the exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of a market emergency including, for example, the retroactive implementation of speculative position limits, increased margin requirements, the establishment of daily price limits and the suspension of trading. •The regulation of commodity interest transactions in the United States is a rapidly changing area of law and is subject to ongoing modification by governmental and judicial action. Considerable regulatory attention has been focused on non-traditional investment pools that are publicly distributed in the United States. There is a possibility of future regulatory changes within the United States altering, perhaps to a material extent, the nature of an investment in the Funds, or the ability of a Fund to continue to implement its investment strategy. In addition, various national governments outside of the United States have expressed concern regarding the disruptive effects of speculative trading in the commodities markets and the need to regulate the derivatives markets in general. The effect of any future regulatory change on the Funds is impossible to predict but could be substantial and adverse. •The Dodd-Frank Act which was enacted in response to the economic crisis of 2008 and 2009, significantly alters the regulatory regime to which the securities and commodities markets are subject. In particular, the Dodd-Frank Act alters the regulation of commodity interests. Provisions of the new law include the requirement that position limits be established on a wide range of commodity interests, including energy-based, metal and agricultural commodity futures contracts, options on such futures contracts and cleared and uncleared swaps that are economically equivalent to such futures contracts and options (“Reference Contracts”); new registration and recordkeeping requirements for swap market participants; capital and margin requirements for “swap dealers” and “major swap participants,” as determined by the new law and applicable regulations; and the mandatory use of clearinghouse mechanisms for sufficiently standardized swap transactions that are currently entered into in the over-the-counter market. In late 2011, the CFTC adopted rules that impose new position limits on Reference Contracts involving 28 energy, metals and agricultural commodities (the “Position Limit Rules”). The Position Limit Rules were scheduled to become effective on October 12, 2012. However, on September 28, 2012, the United States District Court for the District of Columbia vacated these regulations on the basis of ambiguities in the provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act (as modified by the Dodd-Frank Act) upon which the regulations were based. In its September 28th decision, the court remanded the Position Limit Rules to the CFTC with instructions to use its expertise and experience to resolve the ambiguities in the statute. On November 15, 2012, the CFTC indicated that it will move forward with an appeal of the District Court’s decision to vacate the Position Limit Rules. At this time, it is not possible to predict how the CFTC’s appeal could affect the Fund, but it may be substantial and adverse. Furthermore, until such time as the appeal is resolved or, if applicable revisions to the Position Limit Rules are proposed and adopted, the regulatory architecture in effect prior to the enactment of the Position Limit Rules will govern transactions in commodities and related derivatives. Under that system, the CFTC enforces federal limits on speculation in agricultural products (e.g., corn, wheat and soy), while futures exchanges enforce position limits and accountability levels for agricultural and certain energy products (e.g., oil and gas). As a result, the Fund may be limited with respect to the size of its investments in any commodities subject to these limits. Finally, subject to certain narrow exceptions, the vacated Position Limit Rules would have required the aggregation, for purposes of the position limits, of all positions in the 28 Reference Contracts held by a single entity and its affiliates, regardless of whether such positions existed on U.S. futures exchanges, non-U.S. futures exchanges, in cleared swaps or in over-the-counter swaps. The CFTC is presently considering new aggregation rules, under a rulemaking proposal that is distinct from the Position Limit Rules. At this time, it is unclear how any modified aggregation rules may affect the Fund, but it may be substantial and adverse. By way of example, the aggregation rules in combination with any potential revised Position Limit Rules may negatively impact the ability of the Fund to meet its investment objectives through limits that may inhibit the Sponsor’s ability to sell additional Creation Baskets of the Fund. •The CFTC, along with the SEC and other federal regulators, has been tasked with developing the rules and regulations enacting the provisions noted above. To date, the CFTC has issued proposed versions of all of the rules it is required to promulgate under the Dodd-Frank Act, but it continues to issue proposed versions of additional rules that it has authority to promulgate. In addition, the CFTC has begun to issue final rules under the Dodd-Frank Act, including rules relating to recordkeeping and reporting of swap transactions, mandatory clearing of certain classes of credit default swaps and interest rate swaps, as well as the definition of key terms such as “swap” and “swap dealer.” Final rules are likely to continue to be adopted throughout 2013. The effect of future regulatory change on the Funds, and the exact timing of such changes, is impossible to predict but it may be substantial and adverse. Specifically, the new law, the rules that have been promulgated thereunder, and the rules that are expected to be promulgated may negatively impact the ability of the Funds to meet their investment objectives, either through position limits or requirements imposed on them and/or on their counterparties. In particular, new position limits imposed on the Funds or any counterparties may impact the ability of the Funds to invest in a manner that most efficiently meets its investment objective. New requirements, including capital imposed on the counterparties of the Funds and the mandatory clearing and margining of swaps, may increase the cost of the Fund’s investments and doing business. 29 •If a Fund is required to sell Treasury Securities or cash equivalents at a price lower than the price at which they were acquired, the Fund will experience a loss. This loss may adversely impact the price of the Shares and may decrease the correlation between the price of the Shares, the Benchmark, and the spot price of the specific commodity interest or the commodity interests of the Underlying Funds in the case of TAGS. The value of Treasury Securities and other debt securities generally moves inversely with movements in interest rates. The prices of longer maturity securities are subject to greater market fluctuations as a result of changes in interest rates. While the short-term nature of a Fund’s investments in Treasury Securities and cash equivalents should minimize the interest rate risk to which the Fund is subject, it is possible that the Treasury Securities and cash equivalents held by the Fund will decline in value. •If a substantial number of requests for redemption of Redemption Baskets are received by a Fund during a relatively short period of time, the Fund may not be able to satisfy the requests from the Fund’s assets not committed to trading. As a consequence, it could be necessary to liquidate the Fund’s trading positions before the time that its trading strategies would otherwise call for liquidation. •Certain of a Fund’s investments could be illiquid, which could cause large losses to investors at any time or from time to time. oA Fund may not always be able to liquidate its positions in its investments at the desired price. As to futures contracts, it may be difficult to execute a trade at a specific price when there is a relatively small volume of buy and sell orders in a market. Limits imposed by futures exchanges or other regulatory organizations, such as accountability levels, position limits and price fluctuation limits, may contribute to a lack of liquidity with respect to some exchange-traded commodity Interests. In addition, over-the-counter contracts and cleared swaps may be illiquid because they are contracts between two parties and generally may not be transferred by one party to a third party without the counterparty’s consent. Conversely, a counterparty may give its consent, but the Fund still may not be able to transfer an over-the-counter Commodity Interest to a third party due to concerns regarding the counterparty’s credit risk. oA market disruption, such as a foreign government taking political actions that disrupt the market in its currency, its commodity production or exports, or in another major export, can also make it difficult to liquidate a position. Unexpected market illiquidity may cause major losses to investors at any time or from time to time. In addition, no Fund intends at this time to establish a credit facility, which would provide an additional source of liquidity, but instead will rely only on the Treasury Securities, cash and/or cash equivalents that it holds to meet its liquidity needs. The anticipated large value of the positions in a specific Commodity Interest that the Sponsor will acquire or enter into for a Fund increases the risk of illiquidity. Because Commodity Interests may be illiquid, a Fund’s holdings may be more difficult to liquidate at favorable prices in periods of illiquid markets and losses may be incurred during the period in which positions are being liquidated. •The changing nature of the participants in the commodity specific market will influence whether futures prices are above or below the expected future spot price. Producers of the specific commodity will typically seek to hedge against falling commodity prices by selling Commodity Futures Contracts. Therefore, if commodity producers become the predominant hedgers in the futures market, prices of Commodity Futures Contracts will typically be below expected future spot prices. Conversely, if the predominant hedgers in the futures market are the purchasers of the commodity, who purchase Commodity Futures Contracts to hedge against a rise in prices, prices of the Commodity Futures Contracts will likely be higher than expected future spot prices. This can have significant implications for a Fund when it is time to sell a Commodity Futures Contract that is no longer a Benchmark Component Futures Contract and purchase a new Commodity Futures Contract or to sell a Commodity Futures Contract to meet redemption requests. •While it is not the current intention of the Funds to take physical delivery of any Commodity under its Commodity Interests, Commodity Futures Contracts are traditionally not cash-settled contracts, and it is possible to take delivery under these and some Other Interests. Storage costs associated with purchasing the specific commodity could result in costs and other liabilities that could impact the value of the Commodity Futures Contracts or certain Other Interests. Storage costs include the time value of money invested in the physical commodity plus the actual costs of storing the commodity less any benefits from ownership that are not obtained by the holder of a futures contract. In general, Commodity Futures Contracts have a one-month delay for contract delivery and the pricing of back month contracts (the back month is any future delivery month other than the spot month) includes storage costs. To the extent that these storage costs change for the commodity while a Fund holds the Commodity Interests, the value of the Commodity Interests, and therefore the Fund’s NAV, may change as well. •The design of each Fund’s Benchmark is such that the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts change throughout the year, and the Fund’s investments must be rolled periodically to reflect the changing composition of the Benchmark. For example, when the second-to-expire Commodity Futures Contract becomes the first-to-expire contract, such contract will no longer be a Benchmark Component Futures Contract and the Fund’s position in it will no longer be consistent with tracking the Benchmark. In the event of a commodity futures market where near-to-expire contracts trade at a higher price than longer-to-expire contracts, a situation referred to as “backwardation,” then absent the impact of the overall movement in the specific commodity prices of the Fund, the value of the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts would tend to rise as they approach expiration. As a result, a Fund may benefit because it would be selling more expensive contracts and buying less expensive ones on an ongoing basis. Conversely, using corn as an example, in the event of a corn futures market where near-to-expire contracts trade at a lower price than longer-to-expire contracts, a situation 30 referred to as “contango,” then absent the impact of the overall movement in corn prices the value of the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts would tend to decline as they approach expiration. As a result the Fund’s total return may be lower than might otherwise be the case because it would be selling less expensive contracts and buying more expensive ones. The impact of backwardation and contango may lead the total return of a Fund to vary significantly from the total return of other price references, such as the spot price of the specific commodity. In the event of a prolonged period of contango, and absent the impact of rising or falling specific commodity prices, this could have a significant negative impact on a Fund’s NAV and total return. •The Sponsor may use spreads and straddles as part of its overall trading strategy to closely follow the Benchmark. There is a risk that a Fund’s NAV may not closely track the change in its Benchmark. Spreads combine simultaneous long and short positions in related futures contracts that differ by commodity, by market or by delivery month (for example, long April, short November). Spreads gain or lose value as a result of relative changes in price between the long and short positions. Spreads often reduce risk to investors because the contracts tend to move up or down together. However, both legs of the spread could move against an investor simultaneously, in which case the spread would lose value. Certain types of spreads may face unlimited risk, e.g., because the price of a futures contract underlying a short position can increase by an unlimited amount and the investor would have to take delivery or offset at that price. A commodity straddle takes both long and short option position in the same commodity in the same market and delivery month simultaneously. The buyer of a straddle profits if either the long or the short leg of the straddle moves further than the combined cost of both options. The seller of the straddle profits if both the long and short positions do not trade beyond a range equal to the combined premium for selling both options. If the Sponsor were to utilize a spread or straddle position and the position performed differently than expected, the results could impact that Fund’s tracking error. This could affect the Fund’s investment objective of having its NAV closely track the Benchmark. Additionally, a loss on the position would negatively impact the Fund’s absolute return. •The Sponsor cannot predict to what extent the performance of the commodity interest will or will not correlate to the performance of other broader asset classes such as stocks and bonds. If the performance of a specific Fund were to move more directly with the financial markets, an investment in the Fund may provide you little or no diversification benefits. Thus, in a declining market, the Fund may have no gains to offset your losses from other investments, and you may suffer losses on your investment in the Fund at the same time you may incur losses with respect to other asset classes. Variables such as drought, floods, weather, embargoes, tariffs and other political events may have a larger impact on commodity and Commodity Interests prices than on traditional securities and broader financial markets. These additional variables may create additional investment risks that subject a Fund’s investments to greater volatility than investments in traditional securities. Lower correlation should not be confused with negative correlation, where the performance of two asset classes would be opposite of each other. There is no historic evidence that the spot price of a specific commodity, corn, for example, and prices of other financial assets, such as stocks and bonds, are negatively correlated. In the absence of negative correlation, a Fund cannot be expected to be automatically profitable during unfavorable periods for the stock market, or vice versa. •A Fund’s NAV includes, in part, any unrealized profits or losses on open swap agreements, futures or forward contracts. Under normal circumstances, the NAV reflects the quoted exchange settlement price of open futures contracts on the date when the NAV is being calculated. In instances when the quoted settlement price of a futures contract traded on an exchange may not be reflective of fair value based on market condition, generally due to the operation of daily limits or other rules of the exchange or otherwise, the NAV may not reflect the fair value of open future contracts on such date. For purposes of financial statements and reports, the Sponsor will recalculate the NAV where necessary to reflect the “fair value” of a Futures Contract when the Futures Contract closes at its price fluctuation limit for the day. •In the event that one or more Authorized Purchasers that are actively involved in purchasing and selling Shares cease to be so involved, the liquidity of the Shares will likely decrease, which could adversely affect the market price of the Shares and result in your incurring a loss on your investment. In addition, a decision by a market maker or lead market maker to cease activities for a Fund could adversely affect the liquidity, spread between the ask and bid quotes, and potentially the price of the shares. The Sponsor can make no guarantees that participation by Authorized Purchasers and market makers will continue. •The Trust may, in its discretion, suspend the right to redeem Shares of a Fund or postpone the redemption settlement date: (1) for any period during which an applicable exchange is closed other than customary weekend or holiday closing, or trading is suspended or restricted; (2) for any period during which an emergency exists as a result of which delivery, disposal or evaluation of a Fund’s assets is not reasonably practicable; (3) for such other period as the Sponsor determines to be necessary for the protection of Shareholders; (4) if there is a possibility that any or all of the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts of a Fund on the specific exchange where the Fund is traded and from which the NAV of the Fund is calculated will be priced at a daily price limit restriction; or (5) if, in the sole discretion of the Sponsor, the execution of such an order would not be in the best interest of a Fund or its Shareholders. In addition, the Trust will reject a redemption order if the order is not in proper form as described in the agreement with the Authorized Purchaser or if the fulfillment of the order, in the opinion of its counsel, might be unlawful. Any such postponement, suspension or rejection could adversely affect a redeeming Shareholder. For example, the resulting delay may adversely affect the value of the Shareholder’s redemption proceeds if the NAV of a Fund declines during the period of delay. The Trust Agreement provides that the Sponsor and its designees will not be liable for any loss or damage that may result from any such suspension or postponement. oA minimum number of baskets and associated Shares are specified for each Fund in its Form S-1. Once that minimum number of Shares outstanding is reached, there can be no further redemptions until there has been a Creation Basket. 31 •Under CFTC regulations, a clearing broker with respect to a Fund’s exchange-traded Commodity Interests must maintain customers’ assets in a bulk segregated account. If a clearing broker fails to do so, or is unable to satisfy a substantial deficit in a customer account, its other customers may be subject to risk of a substantial loss of their funds in the event of that clearing broker’s bankruptcy. In that event, the clearing broker’s customers, such as a Fund, are entitled to recover, even in respect of property specifically traceable to them, only a proportional share of all property available for distribution to all of that clearing broker’s customers. A Fund also may be subject to the risk of the failure of, or delay in performance by, any exchanges and markets and their clearing organizations, if any, on which Commodity Interests are traded. From time to time, the clearing brokers may be subject to legal or regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of their business. A clearing broker’s involvement in costly or time-consuming legal proceedings may divert financial resources or personnel away from the clearing broker’s trading operations, which could impair the clearing broker’s ability to successfully execute and clear a Fund’s trades. •On November 14, 2012, the CFTC proposed new regulations that would require enhanced customer protections, risk management programs, internal monitoring and controls, capital and liquidity standards, customer disclosures, and auditing and examination programs for Futures Commission Merchants (“FCMs”). The proposed rules are intended to afford greater assurances to market participants that: 1)customers are provided with appropriate notice of the risks of futures trading and of the FCMs with which they may choose to do business; 2) FCMs are monitoring and managing risks in a robust manner; 3) the capital and liquidity of the FCMs are strengthened to safeguard their continued operations; and 4) the auditing and examination programs of the CFTC and the self-regulatory organizations (“SROs”) are monitoring the activities of FCMs in a thorough manner. The final regulations have not yet been adopted. •For all Teucrium Funds except for TAGS, the vast majority of each Fund’s assets are held in short-term Treasury Securities, cash and/or cash equivalents with the Custodian. The insolvency of the Custodian could result in a complete loss of a Fund’s assets held by the Custodian, which, at any given time, would likely comprise a substantial portion of a Fund’s total assets. For TAGS, the vast majority of the Fund’s assets are held in Shares of the Underlying Funds. The failure or insolvency of the Custodian could impact the ability to access in a timely manner TAGS’ assets held by the Custodian. •Third parties may assert that the Sponsor has infringed or otherwise violated their intellectual property rights. Third parties may independently develop business methods, trademarks or proprietary software and other technology similar to that of the Sponsor and claim that the Sponsor has violated their intellectual property rights, including their copyrights, trademark rights, trade names, trade secrets and patent rights. As a result, the Sponsor may have to litigate in the future to determine the validity and scope of other parties’ proprietary rights, or defend itself against claims that it has infringed or otherwise violated other parties’ rights. Any litigation of this type, even if the Sponsor is successful and regardless of the merits, may result in significant costs, may divert resources from the Fund, or may require the Sponsor to change its proprietary software and other technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. The Sponsor has a patent pending on certain business methods and procedures used with respect to the Funds. The Sponsor utilizes certain proprietary software. Any unauthorized use of such proprietary software, business methods and/or procedures could adversely affect the competitive advantage of the Sponsor or the Funds and/or cause the Sponsor to take legal action to protect its rights. •The Sponsor’s trading strategy is quantitative in nature, and it is possible that the Sponsor will make errors in its implementation. The execution of the quantitative strategy is subject to human error, such as incorrect inputs into the Sponsor’s computer systems and incorrect information provided to the Funds’ clearing brokers. In addition, it is possible that a computer or software program may malfunction and cause an error in computation. Any failure, inaccuracy or delay in executing the Funds’ transactions could affect its ability to achieve its investment objective. It could also result in decisions to undertake transactions based on inaccurate or incomplete information. This could cause substantial losses on transactions. •The Funds’ trading activities depend on the integrity and performance of the computer and communications systems supporting them. Extraordinary transaction volume, hardware or software failure, power or telecommunications failure, a natural disaster or other catastrophe could cause the computer systems to operate at an unacceptably slow speed or even fail. Any significant degradation or failure of the systems that the Sponsor uses to gather and analyze information, enter orders, process data, monitor risk levels and otherwise engage in trading activities may result in substantial losses on transactions, liability to other parties, lost profit opportunities, damages to the Sponsor’s and Funds’ reputations, increased operational expenses and diversion of technical resources. •The development of complex computer and communications systems and new technologies may render the existing computer and communications systems supporting the Funds’ trading activities obsolete. In addition, these computer and communications systems must be compatible with those of third parties, such as the systems of exchanges, clearing brokers and the executing brokers. As a result, if these third parties upgrade their systems, the Sponsor will need to make corresponding upgrades to continue effectively its trading activities. The Funds’ future success may depend on the Funds’ ability to respond to changing technologies on a timely and cost-effective basis. •The Funds depend on the proper and timely function of complex computer and communications systems maintained and operated by the futures exchanges, brokers and other data providers that the Sponsor uses to conduct trading activities. Failure or inadequate 32 •performance of any of these systems could adversely affect the Sponsor’s ability to complete transactions, including its ability to close out positions, and result in lost profit opportunities and significant losses on commodity interest transactions. This could have a material adverse effect on revenues and materially reduce the Funds’ available capital. For example, unavailability of price quotations from third parties may make it difficult or impossible for the Sponsor to conduct trading activities so that each Fund will closely track its Benchmark. Unavailability of records from brokerage firms may make it difficult or impossible for the Sponsor to accurately determine which transactions have been executed or the details, including price and time, of any transaction executed. This unavailability of information also may make it difficult or impossible for the Sponsor to reconcile its records of transactions with those of another party or to accomplish settlement of executed transactions. •The operations of the Funds, the exchanges, brokers and counterparties with which the Funds do business, and the markets in which the Funds do business could be severely disrupted in the event of a major terrorist attack, natural disaster, or the outbreak, continuation or expansion of war or other hostilities. Global terrorist attacks, anti-terrorism initiatives and political unrest continue to fuel this concern. •Trading in Shares of a Fund may be halted due to market conditions or, in light of NYSE Arca rules and procedures, for reasons that, in the view of the NYSE Arca, make trading in Shares inadvisable. In addition, trading is subject to trading halts caused by extraordinary market volatility pursuant to “circuit breaker” rules that require trading to be halted for a specified period based on a specified market decline. There can be no assurance that the requirements necessary to maintain the listing of the Shares will continue to be met or will remain unchanged. A Fund will be terminated if its Shares are delisted. •Commodity pools’ trading positions in futures contracts or other commodity interests are typically required to be secured by the deposit of margin funds that represent only a small percentage of a futures contract’s (or other commodity interest’s) entire market value. This feature permits commodity pools to “leverage” their assets by purchasing or selling futures contracts (or other commodity interests) with an aggregate notional amount in excess of the commodity pool’s assets. While this leverage can increase a pool’s profits, relatively small adverse movements in the price of a pool’s commodity interests can cause significant losses to the pool. While the Sponsor does not intend to leverage the Funds’ assets, it is not prohibited from doing so under the Trust Agreement. If the Sponsor were to cause or permit a Fund to become leveraged, you could lose all or substantially all of your investment if the Fund’s trading positions suddenly turns unprofitable. •A portion of the Funds’ assets may be used to trade over-the-counter Commodity Interests, such as forward contracts or swaps. Currently, over-the-counter contracts are typically traded on a principal-to-principal, non-cleared basis through dealer markets that are dominated by major money center and investment banks and other institutions and that prior to the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act had been essentially unregulated by the CFTC, although this is an area of pending, substantial regulatory change. The markets for over-the-counter contracts will continue to rely upon the integrity of market participants in lieu of the additional regulation imposed by the CFTC on participants in the futures markets. To date, the forward markets have been largely unregulated, forward contracts have been executed bi-laterally and, in general historically, forward contracts have not been cleared or guaranteed by a third party. While the Dodd-Frank Act and certain regulations adopted thereunder are intended to provide additional protections to participants in the over-the-counter market, the lack of regulation in these markets could expose the Fund in certain circumstances to significant losses in the event of trading abuses or financial failure by participants. While increased regulation of over-the-counter Commodity Interests is likely to result from changes that are required to be effectuated by the Dodd-Frank Act, there is no guarantee that such increased regulation will be effective to reduce these risks. •Each Fund faces the risk of non-performance by the counterparties to the over-the-counter contracts. Unlike in futures contracts, the counterparty to these contracts is generally a single bank or other financial institution, rather than a clearing organization backed by a group of financial institutions. As a result, there will be greater counterparty credit risk in these transactions. A counterparty may not be able to meet its obligations to a Fund, in which case the Fund could suffer significant losses on these contracts. If a counterparty becomes bankrupt or otherwise fails to perform its obligations due to financial difficulties, a Fund may experience significant delays in obtaining any recovery in a bankruptcy or other reorganization proceeding. During any such period, the Fund may have difficulty in determining the value of its contracts with the counterparty, which in turn could result in the overstatement or understatement of the Fund’s NAV. The Fund may eventually obtain only limited recovery or no recovery in such circumstances. •Over-the-counter (“OTC”) contracts may have terms that make them less marketable than futures contracts. OTC contracts are less marketable because they are not traded on an exchange, do not have uniform terms and conditions, and are entered into based upon the creditworthiness of the parties and the availability of credit support, such as collateral, and in general, they are not transferable without the consent of the counterparty. These conditions may diminish the ability to realize the full value of such contracts. In general, valuing OTC derivatives is less certain than valuing actively traded financial instruments such as exchange-traded futures contracts and securities because the price and terms on which such OTC derivatives are entered into or can be terminated are individually negotiated, and those prices and terms may not reflect the best price or terms available from other sources. In addition, while market makers and dealers generally quote indicative prices or terms for entering into or terminating OTC contracts, they typically are not contractually obligated to do so, particularly if they are not a party to the transaction. As a result, it may be difficult to obtain an independent value for an outstanding OTC derivatives transaction. 33 •A significant portion of the Commodity Futures Contracts entered into by the Fund are traded on United States exchanges, including the CBOT, the NYMEX and the ICE. However, a portion of the Funds’ trades may take place on markets and exchanges outside the United States. Some non-U.S. markets present risks because they are not subject to the same degree of regulation as their U.S. counterparts. Neither the CFTC, the NFA, or any domestic exchange regulates activities of any foreign boards of trade or exchanges, including the execution, delivery and clearing of transactions, nor has the power to compel enforcement of the rules of a foreign board of trade or exchange or of any applicable non-U.S. laws. Similarly, the rights of market participants, such as the Funds, in the event of the insolvency or bankruptcy of a non-U.S. market or broker are also likely to be more limited than in the case of U.S. markets or brokers. As a result, in these markets, the Funds have less legal and regulatory protection than they do when they trade domestically. In some of these non-U.S. markets, the performance on a futures contract is the responsibility of the counterparty and is not backed by an exchange or clearing corporation and therefore exposes the Funds to credit risk. Additionally, trading on non-U.S. exchanges is subject to the risks presented by exchange controls, expropriation, increased tax burdens and exposure to local economic declines and political instability. An adverse development with respect to any of these variables could reduce the profit or increase the loss earned on trades in the affected international markets. •The price of any non-U.S. Commodity Interest and, therefore, the potential profit and loss on such investment, may be affected by any variance in the foreign exchange rate between the time the order is placed and the time it is liquidated, offset or exercised. As a result, changes in the value of the local currency relative to the U.S. dollar may cause losses to a Fund even if the contract is profitable. The Funds invest primarily in Commodity Interests that are traded or sold in the United States. However, a portion of the trades for a Fund may take place in markets and on exchanges outside the United States. Some non-U.S. markets present risks because they are not subject to the same degree of regulation as their U.S. counterparts. In some of these non-U.S. markets, the performance on a contract is the responsibility of the counterparty and is not backed by an exchange or clearing corporation and therefore exposes a Fund to credit risk. Trading in non-U.S. markets also leaves a Fund susceptible to fluctuations in the value of the local currency against the U.S. dollar. •Some non-U.S. exchanges also may be in a more developmental stage so that prior price histories may not be indicative of current price dynamics. In addition, a Fund may not have the same access to certain positions on foreign trading exchanges as do local traders, and the historical market data on which the Sponsor bases its strategies may not be as reliable or accessible as it is for U.S. exchanges. •Cash or property will be distributed at the sole discretion of the Sponsor, and the Sponsor currently does not intend to make cash or other distributions with respect to Shares. You will be required to pay U.S. federal income tax and, in some cases, state, local, or foreign income tax, on your allocable share of a Fund’s taxable income, without regard to whether you receives distributions or the amount of any distributions. Therefore, the tax liability resulting from your ownership of Shares may exceed the amount of cash or value of property (if any) distributed. •Due to the application of the assumptions and conventions applied by a Fund in making allocations for tax purposes and other factors, your allocable share of the Fund’s income, gain, deduction or loss may be different than your economic profit or loss from your Shares for a taxable year. This difference could be temporary or permanent and, if permanent, could result in your being taxed on amounts in excess of your economic income. •The Funds are treated as partnerships for United States federal income tax purposes. The U.S. tax rules pertaining to entities taxed as partnerships are complex and their application to publicly traded partnerships such as the Funds are in many respects uncertain. The Funds apply certain assumptions and conventions in an attempt to comply with the intent of the applicable rules and to report taxable income, gains, deductions, losses and credits in a manner that properly reflects Shareholders’ economic gains and losses. These assumptions and conventions may not fully comply with all aspects of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”) and applicable Treasury Regulations, however, and it is possible that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service will successfully challenge our allocation methods and require us to reallocate items of income, gain, deduction, loss or credit in a manner that adversely affects you. If this occurs, you may be required to file an amended tax return and to pay additional taxes plus deficiency interest. •The Trust has received an opinion of counsel that, under current U.S. federal income tax laws, the Funds will be treated as partnerships that are not taxable as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes, provided that (i) at least 90 percent of each Fund’s annual gross income consists of “qualifying income” as defined in the Code, (ii) the Funds are organized and operated in accordance with its governing agreements and applicable law, and (iii) the Funds do not elect to be taxed as corporations for federal income tax purposes. Although the Sponsor anticipates that the Funds have satisfied and will continue to satisfy the “qualifying income” requirement for all of its taxable years, that result cannot be assured. The Funds have not requested and will not request any ruling from the IRS with respect to its classification as partnerships not taxable as corporations for federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to successfully assert that the Funds are taxable as corporations for federal income tax purposes in any taxable year, rather than passing through its income, gains, losses and deductions proportionately to Shareholders, each Fund would be subject to tax on its net income for the year at corporate tax rates. In addition, although the Sponsor does not currently intend to make distributions with respect to Shares, any distributions would be taxable to Shareholders as dividend income. Taxation of the Funds as corporations could materially reduce the after-tax return on an investment in Shares and could substantially reduce the value of your Shares. 34 Risks Specific to the Teucrium Corn Fund •Investors may choose to use the Fund as a means of investing indirectly in corn, and there are risks involved in such investments. The risks and hazards that are inherent in corn production may cause the price of corn to fluctuate widely. Price movements for corn are influenced by, among other things: weather conditions, crop failure, production decisions, governmental policies, changing demand, the corn harvest cycle, and various economic and monetary events. Corn production is also subject to U.S. federal, state and local regulations that materially affect operations. •The price movements for corn are influenced by, among other things, weather conditions, crop disease, transportation difficulties, various planting, growing and harvesting problems, governmental policies, changing demand, and seasonal fluctuations in supply. More generally, commodity prices may be influenced by economic and monetary events such as changes in interest rates, changes in balances of payments and trade, U.S. and international inflation rates, currency valuations and devaluations, U.S. and international economic events, and changes in the philosophies and emotions of market participants. Because the Fund invests primarily in interests in a single commodity, it is not a diversified investment vehicle, and therefore may be subject to greater volatility than a diversified portfolio of stocks or bonds or a more diversified commodity pool. •The Fund is subject to the risks and hazards of the corn market because it invests in Corn Interests. The risks and hazards that are inherent in the corn market may cause the price of corn to fluctuate widely. If the changes in percentage terms of the Fund’s Shares accurately track the percentage changes in the Benchmark or the spot price of corn, then the price of its Shares will fluctuate accordingly. •The price and availability of corn is influenced by economic and industry conditions, including but not limited to supply and demand factors such as: crop disease and infestation (including, but not limited to, Leaf Blight, Ear Rot and Root Rot); transportation difficulties; various planting, growing, or harvesting problems; and severe weather conditions (particularly during the spring planting season and the fall harvest) such as drought, floods, or frost that are difficult to anticipate and which cannot be controlled. Demand for corn in the United States to produce ethanol has also been a significant factor affecting the price of corn. In turn, demand for ethanol has tended to increase when the price of gasoline has increased, and has been significantly affected by United States governmental policies designed to encourage the production of ethanol. Recent changes in government policy have the potential to reduce the demand for ethanol over the next several years. Additionally, demand for corn is affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions, and demographic trends. Finally, because corn is often used as an ingredient in livestock feed, demand for corn is subject to risks associated with the outbreak of livestock disease. •Corn production is subject to United States federal, state, and local policies and regulations that materially affect operations. Governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies, incentives, acreage control, and import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products, can influence the planting of certain crops, the location and size of crop production, the volume and types of imports and exports, the availability and competitiveness of feedstocks as raw materials, and industry profitability. Additionally, corn production is affected by laws and regulations relating to, but not limited to, the sourcing, transporting, storing, and processing of agricultural raw materials as well as the transporting, storing and distributing of related agricultural products. U.S. corn producers also must comply with various environmental laws and regulations, such as those regulating the use of certain pesticides, and local laws that regulate the production of genetically modified crops. In addition, international trade disputes can adversely affect agricultural commodity trade flows by limiting or disrupting trade between countries or regions. •Seasonal fluctuations in the price of corn may cause risk to an investor because of the possibility that Share prices will be depressed because of the corn harvest cycle. In the United States, the corn market is normally at its weakest point, and corn prices are lowest, shortly before and during the harvest (between September and November), due to the high supply of corn in the market. Conversely, corn prices are generally highest during the winter and spring (between December and May), when farmer-owned corn has largely been sold and used. Seasonal corn market peaks generally occur around February or March. These normal market conditions are, however, often influenced by weather patterns, and domestic and global economic conditions, among others factors, and any specific year may not necessarily follow the traditional seasonal fluctuations described above. In the futures market, these seasonal fluctuations are typically reflected in contracts expiring in the relevant season (e.g., contracts expiring during the harvest season are typically priced lower than contracts expiring in the winter and spring). Thus, seasonal fluctuations could result in an investor incurring losses upon the sale of Fund Shares, particularly if the investor needs to sell Shares when the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts are, in whole or part, Corn Futures Contracts expiring in the fall. •Position limits and daily price fluctuation limits set by the CFTC and the exchanges have the potential to cause tracking error, which could cause the price of Shares to substantially vary from the Benchmark and prevent you from being able to effectively use the Fund as a way to hedge against corn-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in corn. oThe CFTC and U.S. designated contract markets such as the CBOT may establish position limits on the maximum net long or net short futures contracts in commodity interests that any person or group of persons under common trading control (other than as a hedge, which an investment by the Fund is not) may hold, own or control. For example, the current position limit for investments at any one time in Corn Futures Contracts are 600 spot month contracts, 33,000 contracts expiring in any other single month, and 35 33,000 total for all months. Cleared Corn Swaps are subject to position limits that are substantially identical to, but measured separately from, the limits on Corn Futures Contracts. These position limits are fixed ceilings that the Fund would not be able to exceed without specific CFTC authorization. oIn addition to position limits, the exchanges set daily price fluctuation limits on futures contracts. The daily price fluctuation limit establishes the maximum amount that the price of futures contracts may vary either up or down from the previous day’s settlement price. Once the daily price fluctuation limit has been reached in a particular futures contract, no trades may be made at a price beyond that limit. oFor example, the CBOT imposes a $2,000 per contract price fluctuation limit for Corn Futures Contracts. This limit is initially based off of the previous trading day’s settlement price. If two or more Corn Futures Contract months within the first five listed non-spot contracts close at the limit, the daily price limit increases to $3,000 per contract for the next business day. oAll of these limits may potentially cause a tracking error between the price of the Shares and the Benchmark. This may in turn prevent you from being able to effectively use the Fund as a way to hedge against corn-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in corn. oThe Fund does not intend to limit the size of the offering and will attempt to expose substantially all of its proceeds to the corn market utilizing Corn Interests. If the Fund encounters position limits, accountability levels, or price fluctuation limits for Corn Futures Contracts and/or Cleared Corn Swaps on the CBOT, it may then, if permitted under applicable regulatory requirements, purchase Other Corn Interests and/or Corn Futures Contracts listed on foreign exchanges. However, the Corn Futures Contracts available on such foreign exchanges may have different underlying sizes, deliveries, and prices. In addition, the Corn Futures Contracts available on these exchanges may be subject to their own position limits and accountability levels. In any case, notwithstanding the potential availability of these instruments in certain circumstances, position limits could force the Fund to limit the number of Creation Baskets that it sells. Risks Specific to the Teucrium Natural Gas Fund •Investors may choose to use the Fund as a means of investing indirectly in natural gas, and there are risks involved in such investments. The risks and hazards that are inherent in natural gas production may cause the price of natural gas to fluctuate widely. The exploration for, and production of, natural gas is an uncertain process with many risks. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells for natural gas is often uncertain, and a number of factors can delay or prevent drilling operations or production. These include, but are not limited to: unexpected drilling conditions; pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or repairs; fires or other accidents; adverse weather conditions; pipeline ruptures or spills; shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment; and environmental hazards. Environmental hazards include natural gas leaks, ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. Natural gas operations are also subject to various U.S. federal, state and local regulations that materially affect operations. Natural gas production is also mostly concentrated to North America in that transporting natural gas is primarily limited to pipelines, although under limited circumstances, natural gas may be liquefied and shipped to or from North America. •The Fund is subject to the risks and hazards of the natural gas market because it invests in Natural Gas Interests. The risks and hazards that are inherent in the natural gas market may cause the price of natural gas to fluctuate widely. If the changes in percentage terms of the Fund’s Shares accurately track the percentage changes in the Benchmark or the spot price of natural gas, then the price of its Shares will fluctuate accordingly. •The exploration for, and production of, natural gas is an uncertain process with many risks. The costs of drilling, completing and operating wells for natural gas is often uncertain, and a number of factors can delay or prevent drilling operations or production, including but not limited to: oUnexpected drilling conditions; oPressure or irregularities in formations; oEquipment failures or repairs; oFires or other accidents; 36 oPipeline ruptures or spills; oShortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment; oAdverse weather conditions; oPolitical conflicts; oCompliance with government regulations; and oEnvironmental hazards, including natural gas leaks, ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. •Natural gas production is subject to U.S. federal, state, and local policies and regulations that materially affect operations. Matters regulated include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling and abandonment bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells and pooling of properties and taxation. At various times, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production. In order to conserve supplies of natural gas, these agencies have restricted the rates of flow of natural gas wells below actual production capacity. Federal, state and local laws regulate production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of natural gas, by-products from natural gas and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with natural gas operations. •There are a variety of hazards inherent in natural gas transmission, distribution, gathering and processing, such as leaks, explosions, pollution, release of toxic substances, adverse weather conditions (such as hurricanes and flooding), pipeline failure, abnormal pressures, uncontrollable flows of natural gas, scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, physical damage to the gathering or transportation system, and other hazards which could affect the price of natural gas. To the extent these hazards limit the supply or delivery of natural gas, natural gas prices will increase. •Natural gas prices fluctuate seasonally. For example, in some parts of the United States and other markets, the natural gas demand for power peaks during the cold winter months, with market prices peaking at that time. As a result, in the future, the overall price of natural gas may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal and quarterly basis and thus make consecutive period to period comparisons less relevant. •Price movements for natural gas are influenced by, among other things: regional demand for energy, which is affected by economic and seasonal conditions; the domestic supply and inventories of natural gas; weather conditions, including abnormally mild or harsh winters; political conditions; the price and availability of alternative fuels; and the impact of energy conservation efforts. More generally, commodity prices may be influenced by economic and monetary events such as changes in interest rates, changes in balances of payments and trade, U.S. and international inflation rates, currency valuations and devaluations, U.S. and international economic events, and changes in the philosophies and emotions of market participants. Because the Fund invests primarily in interests in a single commodity, it is not a diversified investment vehicle, and therefore may be subject to greater volatility than a diversified portfolio of stocks or bonds or a more diversified commodity pool. There has been tremendous volatility in the price of Natural Gas Futures Contracts in recent years. For example, the price of the NYMEX spot month futures contract on natural gas rose to a high of $13.69 on July 3, 2008 and dropped to a low of $2.01 on March 31, 2011. The Sponsor anticipates that there will be continued volatility in the price of the Natural Gas Futures Contracts. Consequently, investors should know that this volatility can lead to a loss of all or substantially all of their investment in the Fund. •Natural gas transmission and storage operations in North America are subject to regulation and oversight by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, various state regulatory agencies, and Canadian regulatory authorities. These regulatory bodies have the authority to effect rate settlements on natural gas storage, transmission and distribution services. As a consequence, the price of natural gas may be affected by a change in the rate settlements effected by one or more of these regulatory bodies. •Natural gas is primarily transported and stored throughout the United States by way of pipeline and underground storage facilities. These systems may not be adequate to meet demand, especially in times of peak demand or in areas of the United States where natural gas service is already limited due to minimal pipeline and storage infrastructure. As a result of the limited method for transporting and storing natural gas, the price of natural gas may fluctuate. •Accountability levels, position limits and price fluctuation limits set by the CFTC and the exchanges have the potential to cause tracking error, which could cause the price of Shares to substantially vary from the Benchmark and prevent you from being able to effectively use the Fund as a way to hedge against natural gas-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in natural gas. oThe CFTC and designated contract markets such as the NYMEX and the ICE may establish accountability levels and position limits on the maximum net long or net short futures contracts in commodity interests that any person or group of persons under common trading control may hold, own or control (other than as a hedge, which an investment by the Fund is not). For example,. 37 the current accountability level for investments at any one time in Natural Gas Futures Contracts is 12,000 contracts for all months combined and 6,000 contracts for any one month. While this is not a fixed ceiling, it is a threshold above which the NYMEX may exercise scrutiny and control over an investor, including limiting an investor to holding no more than 12,000 Natural Gas Futures Contracts. oWith regard to position limits, the NYMEX limits an investor from holding more than 1,000 net futures in the last three days of trading in the near month contract to expire. It is unlikely that the Fund will be subject to such position limits because of the Fund’s investment strategy to “roll” from the near month contract to expire to the same month of the following year during the period beginning two weeks from the expiration of the contract. On November 18, 2011, the CFTC adopted regulations that will impose position limits on energy futures contracts, including Natural Gas Futures Contracts. The initial spot month position limit of a combined 1,000 Natural Gas Futures Contracts and economically equivalent swaps will not be effective until 60 days after the CFTC further defines the term “swap.” Non-spot month position limits will be determined based on a survey of at least 12 months of the deliverable supply of natural gas. It is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC will make these regulations effective. The Sponsor does not believe that the proposed rules, if adopted, will have any material impact on the Fund’s investment objective. oThe Cleared Natural Gas Swaps that are most comparable to the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts are subject to accountability levels that are substantially identical to, but are currently measured separately from, the accountability levels on Natural Gas Futures Contracts. Accountability levels are imposed by the ICE of 48,000 contracts for all months (12,000 NYMEX NG contract equivalents), 24,000 contracts for any one month (6,000 NYMEX NG contract equivalents), and 4,000 contracts for the spot month (1,000 NYMEX NG contract equivalents). Exemptions may be obtained from these accountability levels for bona fide hedging, risk management and spread positions. The Fund’s ability to rely on these Cleared Natural Gas Swaps may be further limited when the position limit rules discussed above become effective. oIn addition to accountability levels and position limits, the exchanges may also set price fluctuation limits on futures contracts. The price fluctuation limit establishes the maximum amount that the price of futures contracts may vary either up or down from the previous day’s settlement price or from the price at which the limit was last imposed. When a price fluctuation limit is in effect for a particular futures contract, no trades may be made at a price beyond that limit. oMore specifically, the NYMEX imposes a $1.50 per MMBtu ($15,000 per contract) price fluctuation limit for Natural Gas Futures Contracts. This limit is initially based off of the previous NYMEX trading day’s settlement price. If any of the first three contract months for a Natural Gas Futures Contract is traded, bid or offered at the limit, trading is halted for five minutes. When trading resumes it begins at the point where the limit was imposed and the limit is reset to be $1.50 per MMBtu in either direction of that point. If another halt were triggered, the market would continue to be expanded by $1.50 per MMBtu in either direction after each successive five-minute trading halt. There is not maximum price fluctuation limit during any one trading session. oAll of these limits may potentially cause a tracking error between the price of the Shares and the Benchmark. This may in turn prevent you from being able to effectively use the Fund as a way to hedge against natural gas-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in natural gas. oIf the Fund encounters position limits, accountability levels, or price fluctuation limits for Natural Gas Futures Contracts on the NYMEX or Cleared Natural Gas Swaps on the ICE, it may then, if permitted under applicable regulatory requirements, purchase Natural Gas Interests, including Natural Gas Futures Contracts listed on foreign exchanges. However, the Natural Gas Futures Contracts available on such foreign exchanges may have different underlying sizes, deliveries, and prices. The Natural Gas Futures Contracts available on such foreign exchanges may be subject to their own position limits and accountability levels. In any case, notwithstanding the potential availability of these instruments in certain circumstances, position limits could force the Fund to limit the number of Creation Baskets that it sells. Risks Specific to the Teucrium WTI Crude Oil Fund •Investors may choose to use the Fund as a means of investing indirectly in crude oil, and there are risks involved in such investments. The risks and hazards that are inherent in oil production may cause the price of crude oil to fluctuate widely. Price movements for crude oil are influenced by, among other things, many operating risks. Such operating risks include, but are not limited to, risk of fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards. Environmental hazards include oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. Crude oil operations are also subject to various U.S. federal, state and local regulations that materially affect operations. •Global political risks, including geopolitical conflicts and war could cause the price of WTI light sweet crude oil to fluctuate greatly impacting the Fund’s ability to meet its investment strategy. These tensions include concerns over military actions, civil unrest and sabotage affecting the flow of oil. Additionally, production cuts by members of OPEC and refusals to increase oil production may have the impact of tightening world oil markets. 38 •The Fund is subject to the risks and hazards of the crude oil market because it invests in Oil Interests. The risks and hazards that are inherent in the oil market may cause the price of oil to fluctuate widely. If the changes in percentage terms of the Fund’s Shares accurately track the percentage changes in the Benchmark or the spot price of WTI light sweet crude oil, then the price of its Shares will fluctuate accordingly. •The price and availability of light sweet crude oil is influenced by economic and industry conditions, including but not limited to: othe economic activity of users - as certain economies expand, oil consumption and prices increase, and as economies contract (in a recession or depression), oil demand and prices fall; othe increases in oil production due to price increases making it more economical to extract oil from additional sources which may later stabilize further price increases; odecisions of the cartel of oil producing countries (e.g., OPEC, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries) to produce more or less oil; omechanical difficulties or shortages or delays in the delivery of drilling rigs and other equipment; orefinery capacity; ocompliance with government regulations; oadverse weather conditions; opolitical conflicts - including war; otitle issues; othe cancellation, shortening or delaying of crude oil drilling and production activities; onot finding commercially productive crude oil reservoirs; ooperating risks including risk of fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards; and oenvironmental hazards including oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures and the discharge of toxic gases. •Crude oil operations are also subject to various U.S. federal, state and local regulations that materially affect operations. Matters regulated include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling and abandonment bonds, reports concerning operations the spacing of wells and pooling of properties and taxation. At various times, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production. In order to conserve supplies of crude oil, these agencies have restricted the rates of flow of crude oil wells below actual production capacity. Federal, state and local laws regulate production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of crude oil, by-products from crude oil and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with crude oil operations. •Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations have increased the costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon oil wells. Other laws have prevented exploration and drilling of oil in certain environmentally sensitive federal lands and waters. Several environmental laws that have a direct or an indirect impact on the price of crude oil include, but are not limited to, the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980. •Accountability levels, position limits and price fluctuation limits set by the CFTC and the exchanges have the potential to cause tracking error, which could cause the price of Shares to substantially vary from the Benchmark and prevent you from being able to effectively use the Fund as a way to hedge against crude oil-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in crude oil. 39 •The CFTC and U.S. designated contract markets such as the NYMEX may establish accountability levels and position limits on the maximum net long or net short futures contracts in commodity interests that any person or group of persons under common trading control may hold, own or control (other than as a hedge, which an investment by the Fund is not). For example, the current accountability level for investments at any one time in WTI Oil Futures Contracts is 20,000. While this is not a fixed ceiling, it is a threshold above which the NYMEX may exercise greater scrutiny and control over an investor, including limiting an investor to holding no more than 20,000 Oil Future Contracts. The Cleared Oil Swaps that are most comparable to the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts are subject to accountability levels that are substantially identical to, but measured separately from, the accountability levels for Oil Futures Contracts. •With regard to position limits, the NYMEX limits an investor from holding more than 3,000 net futures in the last three days of trading in the near month contract to expire. The Fund, however, does not believe the current position limits imposed by the NYMEX will have any impact on the Fund. On November 18, 2011, the CFTC adopted regulations that will impose position limits on energy futures contracts, including Oil Futures Contracts. The initial spot month position limit of a combined 3,000 Oil Futures Contracts and economically equivalent swaps will not be effective until 60 days after the CFTC further defines the term “swap.” Non-spot month position limits will be determined based on a survey of at least 12 months of the deliverable supply of WTI crude oil. It is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC will make these regulations effective. The Sponsor does not believe that the proposed rules, if adopted, will have any material impact on the Fund’s investment objective. •In addition to accountability levels and position limits, the exchanges may also set price fluctuation limits on futures contracts. The price fluctuation limit establishes the maximum amount that the price of futures contracts may vary either up or down from the previous day’s settlement price or from the price at which the limit was last imposed. When a price fluctuation limit is in effect for a particular futures contract, no trades may be made at a price beyond that limit. •More specifically, the NYMEX imposes a $10.00 per barrel ($10,000 per contract) price fluctuation limit for WTI Oil Futures Contracts. This limit is initially based off of the previous trading day’s settlement price. If any of the first three contract months for a WTI Oil Futures Contract is traded, bid or offered at the limit, trading is halted for five minutes. When trading resumes, it begins at the point where the limit was imposed and the limit is reset to be $10.00 per barrel in either direction of that point. If another halt were triggered, the market would continue to be expanded by $10.00 per barrel in either direction after each successive five-minute trading halt. There is no maximum price fluctuation limit during any one trading session. •All of these limits may potentially cause a tracking error between the price of the Shares and the Benchmark. This may in turn prevent you from being able to effectively use the Fund as a way to hedge against crude oil-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in crude oil. •If the Fund encounters position limits, accountability levels, or price fluctuation limits for Oil Futures Contracts and/or Cleared Oil Swaps on the NYMEX or the ICE, it may, if permitted under applicable regulatory requirements, purchase Other Oil Interests and/or Oil Futures Contracts listed on foreign exchanges. However, the Oil Futures Contracts available on such foreign exchanges may have different underlying sizes, deliveries, and prices. In addition, the Oil Futures Contracts available on these exchanges may be subject to their own position limits and accountability levels. In any case, notwithstanding the potential availability of these instruments in certain circumstances, accountability levels and position limits could force the Fund to limit the number of Creation Baskets that it sells. •Price movements for barrels of crude oil are influenced by, among other things: (1) operational hazards, such as risk of fire, explosions, blow outs, pipe failure and abnormally pressured formations; (2) environmental hazards, such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures and the discharge of toxic gases; (4) economic variances, such as changes in interest rates, actions by oil producing countries, such as OPEC, changes in supply and demand, shifts in demand domestically or other countries such as India and China, currency deviations, inflation rates and changes in balances of payment and trade, as well as changes in philosophies and emotions of market participants; and (5) political influences, such as war, counter-terrorism and government regulation and oversight. More generally, commodity prices may be influenced by economic and monetary events such as changes in interest rates, changes in balances of payments and trade, U.S. and international inflation rates, currency valuations and devaluations, U.S. and international economic events, and changes in the philosophies and emotions of market participants. Because the Fund invests primarily in interests in a single commodity, it is not a diversified investment vehicle, and therefore may be subject to greater volatility than a diversified portfolio of stocks or bonds or a more diversified commodity pool. Risks Specific to the Teucrium Soybean Fund •Investors may choose to use the Fund as a means of investing indirectly in soybeans, and there are risks involved in such investments. The risks and hazards that are inherent in soybean production may cause the price of soybean to fluctuate widely. Global price movements for soybean are influenced by, among other things: weather conditions, crop failure, production decisions, governmental policies, changing demand, the soybean harvest cycle, and various economic and monetary events. Soybean production is also subject to domestic and foreign regulations that materially affect operations. •As discussed in more detail above, price movements for soybeans are influenced by, among other things, weather conditions, crop disease, transportation difficulties, various planting, growing and harvesting problems, governmental policies, changing demand, and 40 seasonal fluctuations in supply. More generally, commodity prices may be influenced by economic and monetary events such as changes in interest rates, changes in balances of payments and trade, U.S. and international inflation rates, currency valuations and devaluations, U.S. and international economic events, and changes in the philosophies and emotions of market participants. Because the Fund invests primarily in interests in a single commodity, it is not a diversified investment vehicle, and therefore may be subject to greater volatility than a diversified portfolio of stocks or bonds or a more diversified commodity pool. •The Fund is subject to the risks and hazards of the soybean market because it invests in Soybean Interests. The risks and hazards that are inherent in the soybean market may cause the price of soybeans to fluctuate widely. If the changes in percentage terms of the Fund’s Shares accurately track the percentage changes in the Benchmark or the spot price of soybeans, then the price of its Shares will fluctuate accordingly. oThe price and availability of soybeans is influenced by economic and industry conditions, including but not limited to supply and demand factors such as: crop disease; weed control; water availability; various planting, growing, or harvesting problems; severe weather conditions such as drought, floods, heavy rains, frost, or natural disasters that are difficult to anticipate and which cannot be controlled; uncontrolled fires, including arson; challenges in doing business with foreign companies; legal and regulatory restrictions; transportation costs; interruptions in energy supply; currency exchange rate fluctuations; and political and economic instability. Additionally, demand for soybeans is affected by changes in international, national, regional and local economic conditions, and demographic trends. The increased production of soybean crops in South America and the rising demand for soybeans in emerging nations such as China and India have increased competition in the soybean market. oThe supply of soybeans could be reduced by the spread of soybean rust. Soybean rust is a wind-borne fungal disease that attacks soybeans. Although soybean rust can be killed with chemicals, chemical treatment increases production costs for farmers. oSoybean production is subject to United States and foreign policies and regulations that materially affect operations. Governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies, incentives, acreage control, and import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products, can influence the planting of certain crops, the location and size of crop production, the volume and types of imports and exports, and industry profitability. Additionally, soybean production is affected by laws and regulations relating to, but not limited to, the sourcing, transporting, storing and processing of agricultural raw materials as well as the transporting, storing and distributing of related agricultural products. Soybean producers also may need to comply with various environmental laws and regulations, such as those regulating the use of certain pesticides. In addition, international trade disputes can adversely affect agricultural commodity trade flows by limiting or disrupting trade between countries or regions. oBecause processing soybean oil can create trans-fats, the demand for soybean oil may decrease due to heightened governmental regulation of trans-fats or trans-fatty acids. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration currently requires food manufacturers to disclose levels of trans-fats contained in their products, and various local governments have enacted or are considering restrictions on the use of trans-fats in restaurants. Several food processors have either switched or indicated an intention to switch to oil products with lower levels of trans-fats or trans-fatty acids. oIn recent years, there has been increased global interest in the production of biofuels as alternatives to traditional fossil fuels and as a means of promoting energy independence. Soybeans can be converted into biofuels such as biodiesel. Accordingly, the soybean market has become increasingly affected by demand for biofuels and related legislation. oThe costs related to soybean production could increase and soybean supply could decrease as a result of restrictions on the use of genetically modified soybeans, including requirements to segregate genetically modified soybeans and the products generated from them from other soybean products. oSeasonal fluctuations in the price of soybeans may cause risk to an investor because of the possibility that Share prices will be depressed because of the soybean harvest cycle. In the futures market, fluctuations are typically reflected in contracts expiring in the harvest season (i.e., contracts expiring during the fall are typically priced lower than contracts expiring in the winter and spring). Thus, seasonal fluctuations could result in an investor incurring losses upon the sale of Fund Shares, particularly if the investor needs to sell Shares when the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts are, in whole or part, Soybean Futures Contracts expiring in the fall. •Position limits and daily price fluctuation limits set by the CFTC and the exchanges have the potential to cause tracking error, which could cause the price of Shares to substantially vary from the Benchmark and prevent you from being able to effectively use the Fund as a way to hedge against soybean-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in soybeans. oThe CFTC and U.S. designated contract markets may establish position limits on the maximum net long or net short futures contracts in commodity interests that any person or group of persons under common trading control (other than as a hedge, which an investment by the Fund is not) may hold, own or control. For example, the current position limit for investments at any one time in the Soybean Futures Contracts are 600 spot month contracts, 15,000 contracts expiring in any other single month, and 41 15,000 total for all months. Cleared Soybean Swaps (i.e., Soybean Calendar Swaps as currently offered on the CBOT) are subject to position limits that are similar to, but currently measured separately from, the limits on Soybean Futures Contracts. The position limits for Cleared Soybeans Swaps are 6,500 contracts expiring in any single month and 10,000 contracts total for all months. These position limits are fixed ceilings that the Fund would not be able to exceed without specific CFTC authorization. Additionally, the Fund’s ability to rely on these Cleared Soybean Swaps may be further limited when the position limit rules become effective. oIn addition to position limits, the exchanges set daily price fluctuation limits on futures contracts. The daily price fluctuation limit establishes the maximum amount that the price of futures contracts may vary either up or down from the previous day’s settlement price. Once the daily price fluctuation limit has been reached in a particular futures contract, no trades may be made at a price beyond that limit. oCurrently, the CBOT imposes an initial $3,500 per contract maximum daily price fluctuation limit on Soybean Futures Contracts. This limit is based off the previous trading day’s settlement price. If two or more Soybean Futures Contract months within the first seven listed non-spot contracts close at the limit, the daily price limit increases to $5,250 per contract for the next business day and to $8,000 per contract for the next business day if the limit is met again. oAll of these limits may potentially cause a tracking error between the price of the Shares and the Benchmark. This may in turn prevent you from being able to effectively use the Fund as a way to hedge against soybean-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in soybeans. oIf the Fund encounters position limits or price fluctuation limits for Soybean Futures Contracts and/or Cleared Soybean Swaps on the CBOT, it may then, if permitted under applicable regulatory requirements, purchase Other Soybean Interests and/or Soybean Futures Contracts listed on foreign exchanges. However, the Soybean Futures Contracts available on such foreign exchanges may have different underlying sizes, deliveries, and prices. In addition, the Soybean Futures Contracts available on these exchanges may be subject to their own position limits or similar restrictions. In any case, notwithstanding the potential availability of these instruments in certain circumstances, position limits could force the Fund to limit the number of Creation Baskets that it sells. Risks Specific to the Teucrium Sugar Fund •Investors may choose to use the Fund as a means of investing indirectly in sugar, and there are risks involved in such investments. The risks and hazards that are inherent in sugar production may cause the price of sugar to fluctuate widely. Global price movements for sugar are influenced by, among other things: weather conditions, crop failure, production decisions, governmental policies, changing demand, the sugar harvest cycle, and various economic and monetary events. Sugar production is also subject to domestic and foreign regulations that materially affect operations. •As discussed in more detail above, price movements for sugar are influenced by, among other things, weather conditions, crop disease, transportation difficulties, various planting, growing and harvesting problems, governmental policies, changing demand, and seasonal fluctuations in supply. More generally, commodity prices may be influenced by economic and monetary events such as changes in interest rates, changes in balances of payments and trade, U.S. and international inflation rates, currency valuations and devaluations, U.S. and international economic events, and changes in the philosophies and emotions of market participants. Because the Fund invests primarily in interests in a single commodity, it is not a diversified investment vehicle, and therefore may be subject to greater volatility than a diversified portfolio of stocks or bonds or a more diversified commodity pool. •The Fund is subject to the risks and hazards of the world sugar market because it invests in Sugar Interests. The two primary sources for the production of sugar are sugarcane and sugar beets, both of which are grown in various countries around the world. The risks and hazards that are inherent in the world sugar market may cause the price of sugar to fluctuate widely. If the changes in percentage terms of the Fund’s Shares accurately track the percentage changes in the Benchmark or the spot price of sugar, then the price of its Shares will fluctuate accordingly. •The global price and availability of sugar is influenced by economic and industry conditions, including but not limited to supply and demand factors such as: crop disease; weed control; water availability; various planting, growing, or harvesting problems; severe weather conditions such as drought, floods, or frost that are difficult to anticipate and which cannot be controlled; uncontrolled fires, including arson; challenges in doing business with foreign companies; legal and regulatory restrictions; fluctuation of shipping rates; currency exchange rate fluctuations; and political and economic instability. Global demand for sugar to produce ethanol has also been a significant factor affecting the price of sugar. Additionally, demand for sugar is affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions, and demographic trends. The spread of consumerism and the rising affluence of emerging nations such as China and India have created demand for sugar. An influx of people in developing countries moving from rural to urban areas may create more disposable income to be spent on sugar products, and might also reduce sugar production in rural areas on account of worker shortages, all of which would result in upward pressure on sugar prices. On the other hand, public health concerns regarding obesity, heart disease and diabetes, particularly in developed countries, may reduce demand for sugar. In light of the time it takes to grow sugarcane and sugar beets and the cost of new facilities for processing these crops, it may not be possible to increase supply quickly or in a cost-effective manner in response to an increase in demand for sugar. 42 •Sugar production is subject to United States and foreign policies and regulations that materially affect operations. Governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies, incentives, acreage control, and import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products, can influence the planting of certain crops, the location and size of crop production, the volume and types of imports and exports, and industry profitability. Many foreign countries subsidize sugar production, resulting in lower prices, but this has led other countries, including the United States, to impose tariffs and import restrictions on sugar imports. Sugar producers also may need to comply with various environmental laws and regulations, such as those regulating the use of certain pesticides. •Seasonal fluctuations in the price of sugar may cause risk to an investor because of the possibility that Share prices will be depressed because of the sugar harvest cycle. In the futures market, contracts expiring during the harvest season are typically priced lower than contracts expiring in the winter and spring. While the sugar harvest seasons varies from country to country, prices of Sugar Futures Contracts tend to be lowest in the late spring and early summer, reflecting the harvest season in Brazil, the world’s leading producer of sugarcane. Thus, seasonal fluctuations could result in an investor incurring losses upon the sale of Fund Shares, particularly if the investor needs to sell Shares when the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts are, in whole or part, Sugar Futures Contracts expiring in the late spring or early summer. •Position limits and daily price fluctuation limits set by the CFTC and the exchanges have the potential to cause tracking error, which could cause the price of Shares to substantially vary from the Benchmark and prevent you from being able to effectively use the Fund as a way to hedge against sugar-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in sugar. oU.S. designated contract markets such as the ICE Futures and the NYMEX have established position limits and accountability levels on the maximum net long or net short Sugar Futures Contracts that any person or group of persons under common trading control may hold, own or control. For example, the current ICE Futures-established position limit level for investments in Sugar No. 11 Futures Contracts for the spot month, which is defined as on and after the second business day following the expiration of the regular option contract traded on the expiring futures contract, is 5,000, the accountability level for investments in ICE Sugar No. 11 Futures Contracts for any one month is 10,000, and the accountability level for all combined months is 15,000. While accountability levels are not fixed ceilings, they are thresholds above which the exchange may exercise greater scrutiny and control over an investor, including limiting an investor to holding no more Sugar No. 11 Futures Contracts than the amount established by the accountability level. ICE Cleared Sugar Swaps are subject to a level of 10,000 swap positions for any single month and all months combined. This limit is currently measured separately from the accountability levels on Sugar No. 11 Futures Contracts. The Fund does not intend to invest in Sugar Futures Contracts or Cleared Sugar Swaps in excess of any applicable accountability levels. oPosition limits generally impose a fixed ceiling on aggregate holdings in futures contracts relating to a particular commodity, and may also impose separate ceilings on contracts expiring in any one month, contracts expiring in the spot month, and/or contracts in certain specified final days of trading. The CFTC has not currently set position limits for Sugar Futures Contracts, and the ICE Futures and the NYMEX have established position limits only on spot month Sugar No. 11 Futures Contracts. For example, the ICE Futures’ position limit for Sugar No. 11 Futures Contracts is 5,000 spot month contracts, whereas the NYMEX Sugar No. 11 Futures limit is 1,000 contacts, generally applicable only during the last month before expiration and limits on 9,000 contracts for a single month or cumulative amount. All Sugar Futures Contracts held under the control of the Sponsor, including those held by any future series of the Trust, will be aggregated in determining the application of these position limits. However, because spot month contracts are not Benchmark Component Futures Contracts and the Fund’s roll strategy calls for the sale of all spot month Sugar No.11 Futures Contracts prior to the time the position limits would become applicable, it is unlikely that position limits on Sugar Futures Contracts will come into play. oIn addition to accountability levels and position limits, exchanges may establish daily price fluctuation limits on futures contracts. The daily price fluctuation limit establishes the maximum amount that the price of futures contracts may vary either up or down from the previous day’s settlement price. Once the daily price fluctuation limit has been reached in a particular futures contract, no trades may be made at a price beyond that limit. Currently, the ICE Futures and the NYMEX have not imposed maximum daily price fluctuation limits on Sugar Futures Contracts. oAll of these limits may potentially cause a tracking error between the price of the Shares and the Benchmark. This may in turn prevent you from being able to effectively use the Fund as a way to hedge against sugar-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in sugar. oIf the Fund encounters accountability levels, position limits, or price fluctuation limits for Sugar Futures Contracts and/or Cleared Sugar Swaps on ICE Futures, it may then, if permitted under applicable regulatory requirements, purchase Other Sugar Interests and/or Sugar Futures Contracts listed on the NYMEX or foreign exchanges. However, the Sugar Futures Contracts available on such foreign exchanges may have different underlying sizes, deliveries, and prices. In addition, the Sugar Futures Contracts available on these exchanges may be subject to their own position limits and accountability levels. In any case, notwithstanding the potential availability of these instruments in certain circumstances, position limits could force the Fund to limit the number of Creation Baskets that it sells. 43 Risks Specific to the Teucrium Wheat Fund •Investors may choose to use the Fund as a means of investing indirectly in wheat, and there are risks involved in such investments. The risks and hazards that are inherent in wheat production may cause the price of wheat to fluctuate widely. Price movements for wheat are influenced by, among other things: weather conditions, crop failure, production decisions, governmental policies, changing demand, the wheat harvest cycle, and various economic and monetary events. Wheat production is also subject to U.S. federal, state and local regulations that materially affect operations. •As discussed in more detail above, price movements for wheat are influenced by, among other things, weather conditions, crop disease, transportation difficulties, various planting, growing and harvesting problems, governmental policies, changing demand, and seasonal fluctuations in supply. More generally, commodity prices may be influenced by economic and monetary events such as changes in interest rates, changes in balances of payments and trade, U.S. and international inflation rates, currency valuations and devaluations, U.S. and international economic events, and changes in the philosophies and emotions of market participants. Because the Fund invests primarily in interests in a single commodity, it is not a diversified investment vehicle, and therefore may be subject to greater volatility than a diversified portfolio of stocks or bonds or a more diversified commodity pool. •The Fund is subject to the risks and hazards of the wheat market because it invests in Wheat Interests. The risks and hazards that are inherent in the wheat market may cause the price of wheat to fluctuate widely. If the changes in percentage terms of the Fund’s Shares accurately track the percentage changes in the Benchmark or the spot price of wheat, then the price of its Shares will fluctuate accordingly. oThe price and availability of wheat is influenced by economic and industry conditions, including but not limited to supply and demand factors such as: crop disease; weed control; water availability; various planting, growing, or harvesting problems; severe weather conditions such as drought, floods, or frost that are difficult to anticipate and which cannot be controlled. Demand for food products made from wheat flour is affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions, and demographic trends. More specifically, demand for such food products in the United States is relatively unaffected by changes in wheat prices or disposable income, but is closely tied to tastes and preferences. For example, in recent years the increase in the popularity of low-carbohydrate diets caused the consumption of wheat flour to decrease rapidly before rebounding somewhat after 2005. Export demand for wheat fluctuates yearly, based largely on crop yields in the importing countries. oWheat production is subject to United States federal, state and local policies and regulations that materially affect operations. Governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies, incentives, acreage control, and import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products, can influence the planting of certain crops, the location and size of crop production, the volume and types of imports and exports, the availability and competitiveness of feedstocks as raw materials, and industry profitability. Additionally, wheat production is affected by laws and regulations relating to, but not limited to, the sourcing, transporting, storing and processing of agricultural raw materials as well as the transporting, storing and distributing of related agricultural products. U.S. wheat producers also must comply with various environmental laws and regulations, such as those regulating the use of certain pesticides, and local laws that regulate the production of genetically modified crops. In addition, international trade disputes can adversely affect agricultural commodity trade flows by limiting or disrupting trade between countries or regions. oSeasonal fluctuations in the price of wheat may cause risk to an investor because of the possibility that Share prices will be depressed because of the wheat harvest cycle. In the United States, the market for winter wheat, the type of wheat upon which CBOT Wheat Futures Contracts are based, is at its lowest point, and wheat prices are lowest, shortly before and during the harvest (in the spring or early summer), due to the high supply of wheat in the market. Conversely, winter wheat prices are generally highest in the fall or early winter, when the wheat harvested that year has largely been sold and used. In the futures market, these seasonal fluctuations are typically reflected in contracts expiring in the relevant season (e.g., contracts expiring during the harvest season are typically priced lower than contracts expiring in the fall and early winter). Thus, seasonal fluctuations could result in an investor incurring losses upon the sale of Fund Shares, particularly if the investor needs to sell Shares when the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts are, in whole or part, Wheat Futures Contracts expiring in the spring. •Position limits and daily price fluctuation limits set by the CFTC and the exchanges have the potential to cause tracking error, which could cause the price of Shares to substantially vary from the Benchmark and prevent you from being able to effectively use the Fund as a way to hedge against wheat-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in wheat. •The CFTC and U.S. designated contract markets such as the CBOT may establish position limits on the maximum net long or net short futures contracts in commodity interests that any person or group of persons under common trading control (other than as a hedge, which an investment by the Fund is not) may hold, own or control. For example, the current position limit for investments at any one time in CBOT Wheat Futures Contracts are 600 spot month contracts, 12,000 contracts expiring in any other single month and 12,000 44 contracts total for all months. Cleared Wheat Swaps (i.e., Wheat Calendar Swaps as offered on the CBOT) are subject to position limits that are similar to, but currently measured separately from, the limits on Wheat Futures Contracts. The position limits for Cleared Wheat Swaps are 5,000 contracts expiring in any single month and 6,500 contracts total for all months. These position limits are fixed ceilings that the Fund would not be able to exceed without specific CFTC authorization. Additionally, the Fund’s ability to rely on these Cleared Wheat Swaps may be further limited when the position limit rules discussed below under “Impact of Position Limits, Accountability Levels, and Price Fluctuations,” become effective. •In addition to position limits, the exchanges set daily price fluctuation limits on futures contracts. The daily price fluctuation limit establishes the maximum amount that the price of futures contracts may vary either up or down from the previous day’s settlement price. Once the daily price fluctuation limit has been reached in a particular futures contract, no trades may be made at a price beyond that limit. •For example, the CBOT imposes a $3,000 per contract price fluctuation limit for Wheat Futures Contracts. This limit is initially based off of the previous trading day’s settlement price. If two or more Wheat Futures Contract months within the first five listed non-spot contracts close at the limit, the daily price limit increases to $4,500 per contract for the next business day and to $6,750 per contract the next business day if the limit is met again. •All of these limits may potentially cause a tracking error between the price of the Shares and the Benchmark. This may in turn prevent you from being able to effectively use the Fund as a way to hedge against wheat-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in wheat. •If the Fund encounters position limits, accountability levels, or price fluctuation limits for Wheat Futures Contracts and/or Cleared Wheat Swaps on the CBOT, it may then, if permitted under applicable regulatory requirements, purchase Other Wheat Interests and/or Wheat Futures Contracts listed on foreign exchanges. However, the Wheat Futures Contracts available on such foreign exchanges may have different underlying sizes, deliveries, and prices. In addition, the Wheat Futures Contracts available on these exchanges may be subject to their own position limits and accountability levels. In any case, notwithstanding the potential availability of these instruments in certain circumstances, position limits could force the Fund to limit the number of Creation Baskets that it sells. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved staff comments. 