ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to factors discussed in the description of our business and elsewhere in this report, the following are factors that could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. Difficult market conditions have already affected us and our industry and may continue to do so. Our performance is significantly impacted by the general economic conditions in our primary markets in Pennsylvania, New York, Ohio and Maryland. Our markets have been adversely impacted by the severe national economic recession of 2008 and 2009, and the weak economic recovery has resulted in continued uncertainty in the financial markets and the expectation of weak general economic conditions continuing. These difficult market conditions are likely to result in continued high levels of unemployment, which will further weaken an already distressed economy and could result in additional defaults of mortgage loans. At December 31, 2013, 75.6% of our loan portfolio was secured by properties located in Pennsylvania, with a large portion of the rest of our loans secured by real estate located in New York, Ohio and Maryland. Negative economic conditions, such as high unemployment, in the markets where collateral for our mortgage loans is located could adversely affect the value of the collateral securing such loans. Declines in the U.S. housing market manifested by falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, as well as unemployment and under-employment, have all negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by recessionary or impaired recovery conditions that are longer or deeper than expected. Due to concerns about the stability of the financial markets generally, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This tightening of credit and market instability has led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. It cannot be known if conditions in the financial markets will improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial industry. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets may adversely affect our operations and results. Since the latter half of 2007, negative developments in the global credit and securitization markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets and a general economic downturn which has through 2013. The economic downturn has been accompanied by deteriorated loan portfolio quality at many financial institutions. In addition, the value of real estate collateral supporting many home mortgages has declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. These negative developments along with the turmoil and uncertainties that have accompanied them have heavily influenced the formulation and enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, along with its implications as described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section. In addition to the many future rules and regulations of the Dodd-Frank Act, the potential exists for other new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards to be enacted. Bank regulatory agencies are expected to continue to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by increasing our costs, restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, these risks could affect the value of our loan portfolio as well as the value of our investment portfolio, which would also negatively affect our financial performance. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, eliminated the Office of Thrift Supervision, tightened capital standards, created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and will continue to result in new rules and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”, or the “Act”) is significantly changing the current bank regulatory structure and affecting the lending, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act eliminated our 18 Table of Contents former primary federal regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision, and required savings and loan holding companies, such as the Company, to be regulated and supervised by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Board. The Act also requires the Federal Reserve Board to set minimum capital levels for depository institution holding companies that are at least as stringent as those required for the insured depository subsidiaries, and the components of Tier 1 capital will be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. The new capital rules will be effective January 1, 2015. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadened the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. In addition, the Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions such as Northwest, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets are examined by their applicable bank regulators. For additional changes under the Dodd-Frank Act, see “Supervision and Regulation— Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.” It is difficult to predict at this time the full impact that the Dodd Frank Act and implementing its regulations will have on community banks, including the lending and credit practices of such banks. Moreover, some of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are not yet in effect, and the legislation requires various federal agencies to promulgate numerous and extensive regulations, some of which are still in process. Although the substance and scope of these regulations cannot be determined at this time, it is expected that the legislation and regulations, particularly those provisions relating to the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, may materially increase our operating and compliance costs and could limit our ability to pay dividends. Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and our income. The Company and Northwest are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board, the Department of Banking and the FDIC. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on Northwest’s operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of Northwest’s allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws and applicable regulations are subject to frequent change and interpretations. Any change in these regulations and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, new regulations or legislation or additional deposit insurance premiums could have a material impact on our operations. In response to the financial crisis, Congress has taken actions that are intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has taken actions to increase insurance coverage on deposit accounts. In addition, there have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount delinquent borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit an institution’s ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. A number of the largest mortgage lenders in the United States previously voluntarily suspended all foreclosures due to document verification deficiencies. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, or changes in policy, affecting lending and funding practices and liquidity standards. Moreover, bank regulatory agencies have been active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, and have issued many formal enforcement orders requiring capital ratios in excess of regulatory requirements. Bank regulatory agencies, such as the Federal Reserve Board, the Department of Banking, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and the FDIC, govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors, and not for the protection or benefit of potential investors. In addition, new laws and regulations may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws and regulations may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, the fees we can charge and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. 19 Table of Contents We will become subject to more stringent capital requirements, which may adversely impact our return on equity, require us to raise additional capital, or constrain us from paying dividends or repurchasing shares. In July 2013, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve Board approved a new rule that will substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to Northwest. The final rule implements the “Basel III” regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The final rule includes new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which will be effective for Northwest on January 1, 2015, and refines the definition of what constitutes “capital” for purposes of calculating these ratios. The new minimum capital requirements will be: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. The final rule also establishes a “capital conservation buffer” of 2.5%, and will result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement would be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that can be utilized for such actions. The application of more stringent capital requirements for Northwest could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions constraining us from paying dividends or repurchasing shares if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. The corporate governance provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and the corporate governance provisions under Maryland law, may prevent or impede the holders of our common stock from obtaining representation on our Board of Directors and may impede takeovers of the company that our board might conclude are not in the best interest of us or our stockholders. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws may prevent or impede holders of our common stock from obtaining representation on our Board of Directors and may make takeovers of Northwest Bancshares, Inc. more difficult. For example, our Board of Directors is divided into three staggered classes. A classified board makes it more difficult for stockholders to change a majority of the directors because it generally takes at least two annual elections of directors for this to occur. Our articles of incorporation include a provision that no person will be entitled to vote any shares of our common stock in excess of 10% of our outstanding shares of common stock. This limitation does not apply to the purchase of shares by a tax-qualified employee stock benefit plan established by us. In addition, our articles of incorporation and bylaws restrict who may call special meetings of stockholders and how directors may be removed from office. Additionally, in certain instances, the Maryland General Corporation Law requires a supermajority vote of our stockholders to approve a merger or other business combination with a large stockholder, if the proposed transaction is not approved by a majority of our directors. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. While we strive to control the impact of changes in interest rates on our net income, our results of operations and financial condition could be significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits, borrowings and trust preferred securities. Because it is difficult to perfectly match the maturities and cash flows from our financial assets and liabilities our net income could be adversely impacted by changes in the level of interest rates or the slope of the Treasury yield curve. Changes in interest rates may also affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce their borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and investment securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Also, increases in interest rates may extend the life of fixed rate assets, which would restrict our ability to reinvest in higher yielding alternatives, and may result in customers withdrawing certificates of deposit early so long as the early withdrawal penalty is less than the interest they could receive as a result of the higher interest rates. 20 Table of Contents Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our interest-earning investment securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2013, the fair value of our investment and mortgage-backed securities portfolio totaled $1.141 billion. Net unrealized losses on these securities totaled $2.6 million at December 31, 2013. At December 31, 2013, our interest rate risk analysis indicated that the market value of our equity would decrease by 13.4% if there was an instant non-parallel 200 basis point increase in market interest rates. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. During the past three years it has been the policy of the Federal Reserve Board to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed and Treasury securities. As a result, market rates on the loans we have originated and the yields on securities we have purchased have been at lower levels than available prior to 2008. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities re-price or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which has been one factor contributing to the increase in our interest rate spread as interest rates decreased. However, our ability to lower our interest expense will be limited at these interest rate levels while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The Federal Reserve Board has previously indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates until the unemployment rate is 6.5% or lower. Accordingly, our net interest income may be adversely affected and may even decrease, which may have an adverse effect on our profitability. We are a community bank and our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. We are a community bank, and our reputation is one of the most valuable components of our business. A key component of our business strategy is to rely on our reputation for customer service and knowledge of local markets to expand our presence by capturing new business opportunities from existing and prospective customers in our current market and contiguous areas. As such, we strive to conduct our business in a manner that enhances our reputation. This is done, in part, by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities we serve, delivering superior service to our customers and caring about our customers and associates. If our reputation is negatively affected, by the actions of our employees, by our inability to conduct our operations in a manner that is appealing to current or prospective customers, or otherwise, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. If the allowance for credit losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral, if any, securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We may experience significant loan losses, which may have a material adverse effect on operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, the allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease net income. Our emphasis on originating commercial real estate and commercial loans is one of the more significant factors in evaluating the allowance for loan losses. As we continue to increase the amount of such loans, increased provisions for loan losses may be necessary which would decrease our earnings. Bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase to the provision for loan losses or further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 21 Table of Contents We could record future losses on our investment securities portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized $713,000 of impairment losses on investment securities. These impairment losses were on pooled trust preferred investments and were the result of the Volcker Rule discussed on page 11. A number of factors or combinations of factors could require us to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that an unrealized loss that exists with respect to these and other securities constitutes an impairment that is other-than-temporary, which could result in material losses to us. These factors include, but are not limited to, failure by the issuer to make scheduled interest payments, an increase in the severity of the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the continuous duration of the unrealized loss without an improvement in value or changes in market conditions and/or industry or issuer specific factors that would render us unable to forecast a full recovery in value. In addition, the fair values of securities could decline if the overall economy and the financial condition of some of the issuers continues to deteriorate and there remains limited liquidity for these securities. See “Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Balance Sheet Analysis—Securities” for a discussion of our securities portfolio and the unrealized losses related to the portfolio, as well as the “Marketable Securities” and “Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments” footnotes to the audited financial statements. A decrease in the Federal Reserve Board’s bond purchasing program may adversely affect our mortgage banking revenues. The Federal Reserve Board has undertaken an unprecedented bond purchase program, known as “quantitative easing.” This program is designed to keep market interest rates low and encourage growth. A decrease in the Federal Reserve Board’s bond repurchase program would likely cause an increase in market interest rates, which may reduce our loan originations by our mortgage banking subsidiary. Proposed and final regulations could restrict our ability to originate and sell loans. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has issued a rule designed to clarify for lenders how they can avoid legal liability under the Dodd-Frank Act, which would hold lenders accountable for ensuring a borrower’s ability to repay a mortgage. Loans that meet this “qualified mortgage” definition will be presumed to have complied with the new ability-to-repay standard. Under the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s rule, a “qualified mortgage” loan must not contain certain specified features, including: · excessive upfront points and fees (those exceeding 3% of the total loan amount, less “bona fide discount points” for prime loans); · interest-only payments; · negative-amortization; and · terms longer than 30 years. Also, to meet the definition of a “qualified mortgage,” a borrower’s total monthly debt-to-income ratio may not exceed 43%. Lenders must also verify and document the income and financial resources relied upon to qualify the borrower for the loan and underwrite the loan based on a fully amortizing payment schedule and maximum interest rate during the first five years, taking into account all applicable taxes, insurance and assessments. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s rule on qualified mortgages could limit our ability or desire to make certain types of loans or loans to certain borrowers, or could make it more expensive/and or time consuming to make these loans, which could limit our growth or profitability. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the regulatory agencies to issue regulations that require securitizers of loans to retain not less than 5% of the credit risk for any asset that is not a “qualified residential mortgage.” The regulatory agencies have issued a proposed rule to implement this requirement. The Dodd-Frank Act provides that the definition of “qualified residential mortgage” can be no broader than the definition of “qualified mortgage” issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau for purposes of its regulations (as described above). Although the final rule with respect to the retention of credit risk has not yet been issued, the final rule could have a significant effect on the secondary market for loans and the types of loans we originate, and restrict our ability to make loans. 22 Table of Contents We hold certain intangible assets that could be classified as impaired in the future. If these assets are considered to be either partially or fully impaired in the future, the book values of these assets would have to be written-down and the amount of the write-down would decrease earnings. We are required to test our goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis and more regularly if indicators of impairment exist. The impairment testing process considers a variety of factors, including the current market price of our common shares, the estimated net present value of our assets and liabilities and information concerning the terminal valuation of similar insured depository institutions. Future impairment testing may result in a partial or full impairment of the value of our goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets, or both. If an impairment determination is made in a future reporting period, our earnings and the book value of these intangible assets will be reduced by the amount of the impairment. However, the recording of such an impairment loss would have no impact on the tangible book value of our shares of common stock or our regulatory capital levels. Strong competition may limit growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. We compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors (whether regional or national institutions) have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, some have competitive advantages such as the credit union exemption from paying Federal income tax. Our profitability depends upon our ability to successfully compete in our market areas. Future legislative or regulatory actions responding to perceived financial and market problems could impair our ability to foreclose on collateral. There have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount distressed borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit an institution’s ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. Were proposals such as these, or other proposals limiting our rights as a creditor, to be implemented, we could experience increased credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. Our exposure to municipalities may lead to operating losses. Our municipal bond portfolio may be impacted by the effects of economic stress on state and local governments. At December 31, 2013, we had $161.9 million invested in debt obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as our municipal bond portfolio). We also had $138.2 million of loans outstanding to municipalities and political subdivisions. Widespread concern currently exists regarding the stress on state and local governments emanating from: (i) declining revenues; (ii) large unfunded liabilities to government workers; and (iii) entrenched cost structures. Debt-to-gross domestic product ratios for the majority of states have been deteriorating due to, among other factors: (i) declines in federal monetary assistance provided as the United States is currently experiencing the largest deficit in its history; and (ii) lower levels of sales and property tax revenue as unemployment remains elevated and the housing market continues to remain unstable. This concern has led to speculation about the potential for a significant deterioration in the municipal bond market, which could materially affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We may not be able to mitigate the exposure in our municipal portfolio if state and local governments are unable to fulfill their obligations. The risk of widespread issuer defaults may also increase if there are changes in legislation that permit states, or additional municipalities and political subdivisions, to file for bankruptcy protection or if there are judicial interpretations that, in a bankruptcy or other proceeding, lessen the value of any structural protections. Risks associated with system failures, interruptions, or breaches of security could negatively affect our earnings. Information technology systems are critical to our business. We use various technology systems to manage our customer relationships, general ledger, deposits, and loans. We have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of system failures, interruptions, and security breaches, but such events may still occur or may not be adequately addressed if they do occur. In addition, any compromise of our systems could deter customers from using our products and services. Although we rely on security systems to provide security and 23 Table of Contents authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of security. In addition, we outsource a majority of our data processing to certain third-party providers. If these third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely affected. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. The occurrence of any system failures, interruption, or breach of security could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating risk and reducing the potential for significant losses. Our risk management framework is designed to minimize risk and loss to us. We seek to identify, measure, monitor, report and control our exposure to risk, including strategic, market, liquidity, credit, interest rate, compliance and operational risks. While we use a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and mitigation techniques, these techniques are inherently limited because they cannot anticipate the existence or future development of currently unanticipated or unknown risks. Recent economic conditions and heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny of the financial services industry, among other developments, have increased our level of risk. Accordingly, we could suffer losses as a result of our failure to properly anticipate and manage these risks. If we are required to repurchase mortgage loans that we have previously sold, it would negatively affect our earnings. One of our sources of non-interest income is our mortgage banking, which involves originating residential mortgage loans for sale in the secondary market under agreements that contain representations and warranties related to, among other things, the origination and characteristics of the mortgage loans. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that we have sold in cases of borrower default or breaches of these representations and warranties. If we are required to repurchase mortgage loans or provide indemnification or other recourse, this could increase our costs and thereby affect our future earnings. During 2013 we have experienced more frequent disputes and repurchase demands from these buyers. Acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute stockholder value. We regularly evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt, or equity securities may occur at any time. We would seek acquisition partners that offer us either significant market presence or the potential to expand our market footprint and improve profitability through economies of scale or expanded services. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches may have an adverse effect on our financial results and may involve various other risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: · difficulty in estimating the value of the target company; · payment of a premium over book and market values that may dilute our tangible book value and earnings per share in the short and long term; · potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; · exposure to potential asset quality problems of the target company; · potential volatility in reported income associated with goodwill impairment losses; · difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; · inability to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits; · potential disruption to our business; · potential diversion of our management’s time and attention; · the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; and 24 Table of Contents · potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 