Item 1A. Risk Factors The risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and the Results of Operations, as well as the financial statements and the related footnotes for the Trust and the Funds. The commodity interests in which each of the Funds invests, and in which TAGS invests indirectly through the Shares of the Underlying Funds, are referred to as Commodity Interests and for each Fund individually as the specific commodity interests, e.g. Corn Interests. Additional information regarding many of the risk areas outlined below can be found in the section of this Form on 10-K entitled: Part I, Item 1. Business, which precedes this section. A discussion of the market outlook for each of the specific underlying commodity can be found in Part I, Item 1. Business. Market Outlook of this Form on 10-K. Risks Applicable to all Funds There are Risks Related to Fund Structure and Operations of the Funds Unlike mutual funds, commodity pools and other investment pools that manage their investments so as to realize income and gains for distribution to their investors, a Fund generally does not distribute dividends to Shareholders. You should not invest in a Fund if you will need cash distributions from the Fund to pay taxes on your share of income and gains of the Fund, if any, or for other purposes. The Sponsor has consulted with legal counsel, accountants and other advisers regarding the formation and operation of the Trust and the Funds. No counsel has been appointed to represent you in connection with the offering of Shares. Accordingly, you should consult with your own legal, tax and financial advisers regarding the desirability of an investment in the Shares. The Sponsor intends to re-invest any income and realized gains of a Fund in additional Commodity Interests, or Shares of the Underlying Funds in the case of TAGS, rather than distributing cash to Shareholders. Although a Fund does not intend to make cash distributions, the income earned from its investments held directly or posted as margin may reach levels that merit distribution, e.g., at levels where such income is not necessary to support its underlying investments in commodity interests, corn for example, and where investors adversely react to being taxed on such income without receiving distributions that could be used to pay such tax. Cash distributions may be made in these and similar instances. A Fund must pay for all brokerage fees, taxes and other expenses, including licensing fees for the use of intellectual property, registration or other fees paid to the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), formerly the National Association of Securities Dealers, or any other regulatory agency in connection with the offer and sale of subsequent Shares, after its initial registration, and all legal, accounting, printing and other expenses associated therewith. Each Fund also pays the fees and expenses associated with the Trust’s tax accounting and reporting requirements. Each Fund, excluding TAGS, is also contractually obligated to pay a management fee to the Sponsor. Such fees may be 25 waived by the Sponsor at its discretion. Accordingly, each Fund must realize interest income and/or gains on Commodity Interests sufficient to cover these fees and expenses before it can earn any profit. A Fund may terminate at any time, regardless of whether the Fund has incurred losses, subject to the terms of the Trust Agreement. For example, the dissolution or resignation of the Sponsor would cause the Trust to terminate unless shareholders holding a majority of the outstanding shares of the Trust elect within 90 days of the event to continue the Trust and appoint a successor Sponsor. In addition, the Sponsor may terminate a Fund if it determines that the Fund’s aggregate net assets in relation to its operating expenses make the continued operation of the Fund unreasonable or imprudent. However, no level of losses will require the Sponsor to terminate a Fund. The Fund’s termination would result in the liquidation of its investments and the distribution of its remaining assets to the Shareholders on a pro rata basis in accordance with their Shares, and the Fund could incur losses in liquidating its investments in connection with a termination. Termination could also negatively affect the overall maturity and timing of your investment portfolio. Any expenses related to the operation of a Fund would need to be paid by the Fund at the time of termination. To the extent that investors use a Fund as a means of investing indirectly in a specific commodity interest, there is the risk that the changes in the price of the Fund’s Shares on the NYSE Arca will not closely track the changes in spot price of that commodity interest. This could happen if the price of Shares traded on the NYSE Arca does not correlate with the Fund’s NAV, if the changes in the Fund’s NAV do not correlate with changes in the Benchmark, or if the changes in the Benchmark do not correlate with changes in the cash or spot price of the specific commodity interest. This is a risk because if these correlations are not sufficiently close, then investors may not be able to use the Fund as a cost-effective way to invest indirectly in the specific commodity interest, or the underlying specific commodity interest in the case of TAGS, or as a hedge against the risk of loss in commodity-related transactions. None of the Funds are an investment company subject to the Investment Company Act of 1940. Accordingly, you do not have the protections afforded by that statute, which, for example, requires investment companies to have a board of directors with a majority of disinterested directors and regulates the relationship between the investment company and its investment manager. The arrangements between clearing brokers and counterparties on the one hand and the Funds on the other generally are terminable by the clearing brokers or counterparty upon notice to the Funds. In addition, the agreements between the Funds and their third-party service providers, such as the Distributor and the Custodian, are generally terminable at specified intervals. Upon termination, the Sponsor may be required to renegotiate or make other arrangements for obtaining similar services if the Funds intend to continue to operate. Comparable services from another party may not be available, or even if available, these services may not be available on the terms as favorable as those of the expired or terminated arrangements. The Sponsor does not employ trading advisors for the Funds; however, it reserves the right to employ them in the future. The only advisor to the Funds is the Sponsor. A lack of independent trading advisors may be disadvantageous to the Funds because they will not receive the benefit of their expertise. The Sponsor’s trading strategy is quantitative in nature, and it is possible that the Sponsor will make errors in its implementation. The execution of the quantitative strategy is subject to human error, such as incorrect inputs into the Sponsor’s computer systems and incorrect information provided to the Funds’ clearing brokers. In addition, it is possible that a computer or software program may malfunction and cause an error in computation. Any failure, inaccuracy or delay in executing the Funds’ transactions could affect its ability to achieve its investment objective. It could also result in decisions to undertake transactions based on inaccurate or incomplete information. This could cause substantial losses on transactions. The Sponsor is not required to reimburse a Fund for any costs associated with an error in the placement or execution of a trade in commodity futures interests or shares of the Underlying Funds. The Funds’ trading activities depend on the integrity and performance of the computer and communications systems supporting them. Extraordinary transaction volume, hardware or software failure, power or telecommunications failure, a natural disaster or other catastrophe could cause the computer systems to operate at an unacceptably slow speed or even fail. Any significant degradation or failure of the systems that the Sponsor uses to gather and analyze information, enter orders, process data, monitor risk levels and otherwise engage in trading activities may result in substantial losses on transactions, liability to other parties, lost profit opportunities, damages to the Sponsor’s and Funds’ reputations, increased operational expenses and diversion of technical resources. The development of complex computer and communications systems and new technologies may render the existing computer and communications systems supporting the Funds’ trading activities obsolete. In addition, these computer and communications systems must be compatible with those of third parties, such as the systems of exchanges, clearing brokers and the executing brokers. As a result, if these third parties upgrade their systems, the Sponsor will need to make corresponding upgrades to continue effectively its trading activities. The Funds’ future success may depend on the Funds’ ability to respond to changing technologies on a timely and cost-effective basis. The Funds depend on the proper and timely function of complex computer and communications systems maintained and operated by the futures exchanges, brokers and other data providers that the Sponsor uses to conduct trading activities. Failure or inadequate performance of any of these systems could adversely affect the Sponsor’s ability to complete transactions, including its ability to close out positions, and result in lost profit opportunities and significant losses on commodity interest transactions. This could have a material adverse effect on revenues and materially reduce the Funds’ available capital. For example, unavailability of price quotations from third parties may make it difficult or impossible for the Sponsor to conduct trading activities so that each Fund will closely track its Benchmark. Unavailability of records from brokerage firms may make it difficult or impossible for the Sponsor to accurately determine which transactions have been executed or the details, including price and 26 time, of any transaction executed. This unavailability of information also may make it difficult or impossible for the Sponsor to reconcile its records of transactions with those of another party or to accomplish settlement of executed transactions. The operations of the Funds, the exchanges, brokers and counterparties with which the Funds do business, and the markets in which the Funds do business could be severely disrupted in the event of a major terrorist attack, natural disaster, data breach or the outbreak, continuation or expansion of war or other hostilities. Global terrorist attacks, anti-terrorism initiatives, cyberattacks and political unrest continue to fuel this concern. The Trust may, in its discretion, suspend the right to redeem Shares of a Fund or postpone the redemption settlement date: (1) for any period during which an applicable exchange is closed other than customary weekend or holiday closing, or trading is suspended or restricted; (2) for any period during which an emergency exists as a result of which delivery, disposal or evaluation of a Fund’s assets is not reasonably practicable; (3) for such other period as the Sponsor determines to be necessary for the protection of Shareholders; (4) if there is a possibility that any or all of the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts of a Fund on the specific exchange where the Fund is traded and from which the NAV of the Fund is calculated will be priced at a daily price limit restriction; or (5) if, in the sole discretion of the Sponsor, the execution of such an order would not be in the best interest of a Fund or its Shareholders. In addition, the Trust will reject a redemption order if the order is not in proper form as described in the agreement with the Authorized Purchaser or if the fulfillment of the order, in the opinion of its counsel, might be unlawful. Any such postponement, suspension or rejection could adversely affect a redeeming Shareholder. For example, the resulting delay may adversely affect the value of the Shareholder’s redemption proceeds if the NAV of a Fund declines during the period of delay. The Trust Agreement provides that the Sponsor and its designees will not be liable for any loss or damage that may result from any such suspension or postponement. A minimum number of baskets and associated Shares are specified for each Fund in its Form S-1 and in Part I, Item 1 of this document. Once that minimum number of Shares outstanding is reached, there can be no further redemptions until there has been a Creation Basket. The Intraday Indicative Value (“IIV”) and the Benchmark for each Fund are calculated and disseminated by the NYSE Arca under an agreement between the Sponsor and the NYSE Arca. Additionally information may be calculated and disseminated under similar agreements between the Sponsor and other third party entities. Although reasonable efforts are taken to ensure the accuracy of the information disseminated under this agreement, there may, from time to time, be recalculations of previously released information. Third parties may assert that the Sponsor has infringed or otherwise violated their intellectual property rights. Third parties may independently develop business methods, trademarks or proprietary software and other technology similar to that of the Sponsor and claim that the Sponsor has violated their intellectual property rights, including their copyrights, trademark rights, trade names, trade secrets and patent rights. As a result, the Sponsor may have to litigate in the future to determine the validity and scope of other parties’ proprietary rights, or defend itself against claims that it has infringed or otherwise violated other parties’ rights. Any litigation of this type, even if the Sponsor is successful and regardless of the merits, may result in significant costs, may divert resources from the Fund, or may require the Sponsor to change its proprietary software and other technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. The Sponsor has a patent on certain business methods and procedures used with respect to the Funds. The Sponsor utilizes certain proprietary software. Any unauthorized use of such proprietary software, business methods and/or procedures could adversely affect the competitive advantage of the Sponsor or the Funds and/or cause the Sponsor to take legal action to protect its rights. The Sponsor Has Limited Experience and May Have Conflicts of Interest The Sponsor has limited experience operating commodity pools. The Sponsor currently sponsors five commodity pools, all of which have commenced operations. Prior to June 9, 2010, the Sponsor had never operated a commodity pool. In managing and directing the day-to-day activities and affairs of these Funds, the Sponsor relies almost entirely on a small number of individuals, including Mr. Sal Gilbertie, Mr. Dale Riker, Mr. Steve Kahler and Ms. Barbara Riker. If Mr. Gilbertie, Mr. Riker, Mr. Kahler or Ms. Riker were to leave or be unable to carry out their present responsibilities, it may have an adverse effect on the management of the Funds. To the extent that the Sponsor establishes additional commodity pools, even greater demands will be placed on these individuals. The Sponsor was formed for the purpose of managing the Trust, including all the Funds, and any other series of the Trust that may be formed in the future, and has been provided with capital primarily by its principals and a small number of outside investors. If the Sponsor operates at a loss for an extended period, its capital will be depleted, and it may be unable to obtain additional financing necessary to continue its operations. If the Sponsor were unable to continue to provide services to these Funds, the Funds would be terminated if a replacement sponsor could not be found. You cannot be assured that the Sponsor will be willing or able to continue to service each Fund for any length of time. The Sponsor was formed for the purpose of sponsoring the Funds and other commodity pools, and has limited financial resources and no significant source of income apart from its management fees from such commodity pools to support its continued service for each Fund. If the Sponsor discontinues its activities on behalf of a Fund, the Fund may be adversely affected. If the Sponsor’s registrations with the CFTC or memberships in the NFA were revoked or suspended, the Sponsor would no longer be able to provide services to the Funds. The structure and operation of the Funds may involve conflicts of interest. For example, a conflict may arise because the Sponsor and its principals and affiliates may trade for themselves. In addition, the Sponsor has sole current authority to manage the investments and operations, and the interests of the Sponsor may conflict with the Shareholders’ best interests, including the authority of the Sponsor to allocate expenses to and between the Funds. 27 The Performance of Each Fund May Not Correlate with the Applicable Benchmark Each Fund has a limited operating history, so there is limited performance history to serve as a basis for you to evaluate an investment in the Fund. If a Fund is required to sell Treasury Securities or cash equivalents at a price lower than the price at which they were acquired, the Fund will experience a loss. This loss may adversely impact the price of the Shares and may decrease the correlation between the price of the Shares, the Benchmark, and the spot price of the specific commodity interest or the commodity interests of the Underlying Funds in the case of TAGS. The value of Treasury Securities and other debt securities generally moves inversely with movements in interest rates. The prices of longer maturity securities are subject to greater market fluctuations as a result of changes in interest rates. While the short-term nature of a Fund’s investments in Treasury Securities and cash equivalents should minimize the interest rate risk to which the Fund is subject, it is possible that the Treasury Securities and cash equivalents held by the Fund will decline in value. The Sponsor’s trading system is quantitative in nature, and it is possible that the Sponsor may make errors. In addition, it is possible that a computer or software program may malfunction and cause an error in computation. Increases in assets under management may affect trading decisions. While all of the Funds’ assets are currently at manageable levels, the Sponsor does not intend to limit the amount of any Fund’s assets. The more assets the Sponsor manages, the more difficult it may be for it to trade profitably because of the difficulty of trading larger positions without adversely affecting prices and performance and of managing risk associated with larger positions. Each Fund seeks to have the changes in its Shares’ NAV in percentage terms track changes in the Benchmark in percentage terms, rather than profit from speculative trading of the specific Commodity Interests, or the commodity interests of the Underlying Funds in the case of TAGS. The Sponsor therefore endeavors to manage each Fund so that the Fund’s assets are, unlike those of many other commodity pools, not leveraged (i.e., so that the aggregate amount of the Fund’s exposure to losses from its investments in specific Commodity Interests at any time will not exceed the value of the Fund’s assets). There is no assurance that the Sponsor will successfully implement this investment strategy. If the Sponsor permits a Fund to become leveraged, you could lose all or substantially all of your investment if the Fund’s trading positions suddenly turns unprofitable. These movements in price may be the result of factors outside of the Sponsor’s control and may not be anticipated by the Sponsor. The Sponsor cannot predict to what extent the performance of the commodity interest will or will not correlate to the performance of other broader asset classes such as stocks and bonds. If the performance of a specific Fund were to move more directly with the financial markets, an investment in the Fund may provide you little or no diversification benefits. Thus, in a declining market, the Fund may have no gains to offset your losses from other investments, and you may suffer losses on your investment in the Fund at the same time you may incur losses with respect to other asset classes. Variables such as drought, floods, weather, embargoes, tariffs and other political events may have a larger impact on commodity and Commodity Interests prices than on traditional securities and broader financial markets. These additional variables may create additional investment risks that subject a Fund’s investments to greater volatility than investments in traditional securities. Lower correlation should not be confused with negative correlation, where the performance of two asset classes would be opposite of each other. There is no historic evidence that the spot price of a specific commodity, corn, for example, and prices of other financial assets, such as stocks and bonds, are negatively correlated. In the absence of negative correlation, a Fund cannot be expected to be automatically profitable during unfavorable periods for the stock market, or vice versa. Under the Trust Agreement, the Trustee and the Sponsor are not liable, and have the right to be indemnified, for any liability or expense incurred absent gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the Trustee or Sponsor, as the case may be. That means the Sponsor may require the assets of a Fund to be sold in order to cover losses or liability suffered by the Sponsor or by the Trustee. Any sale of that kind would reduce the NAV of the Fund and the value of its Shares. The Shares of a Fund are limited liability investments; Shareholders may not lose more than the amount that they invest plus any profits recognized on their investment. However, Shareholders could be required, as a matter of bankruptcy law, to return to the estate of the Fund any distribution they received at a time when the Fund was in fact insolvent or in violation of its Trust Agreement. A period of recession for the economy as a whole began in 2008, and the financial markets experienced very difficult conditions and volatility during that period. The conditions in these markets resulted in a decrease in availability of corporate credit and liquidity and led indirectly to the insolvency, closure or acquisition of a number of major financial institutions and contributed to further consolidation within the financial services industry. A continued recession or a slow recovery could adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of the Funds’ service providers and Authorized Purchasers, which would impact the ability of the Sponsor to achieve the Funds’ investment objectives. The price relationship between the near month Commodity Futures Contract to expire and the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts for each Fund, or the Underlying Funds in the case of TAGS, will vary and may impact both a Fund’s total return over time and the degree to which such total return tracks the total return of the specific commodity price indices. In cases in which the near month contract’s price is lower than later-expiring contracts’ prices (a situation known as “contango” in the futures markets), then absent the impact of the overall movement in the commodity specific prices the value of the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts would tend to decline as they approach expiration which could cause the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts, and therefore the Fund’s total return, to track lower. In cases in which the near month contract’s price is higher than later-expiring contracts’ prices (a situation known as “backwardation” in the futures markets), then absent the impact of the overall movement in commodity specific prices, the value of the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts would tend to rise as they approach expiration. 28 While it is expected that the trading prices of the Shares will fluctuate in accordance with the changes in a Fund’s NAV, the prices of Shares may also be influenced by various market factors, including but not limited to, the number of shares of the Fund outstanding and the liquidity of the underlying. There is no guarantee that the Shares will not trade at appreciable discounts from, and/or premiums to, the Fund’s NAV. This could cause the changes in the price of the Shares to substantially vary from the changes in the spot price of the underlying commodity, even if a Fund’s NAV was closely tracking movements in the spot price of that commodity. If this occurs, you may incur a partial or complete loss of your investment. Investors, including those who directly participate in the specific commodity market, may choose to use a Fund as a vehicle to hedge against the risk of loss, and there are risks involved in hedging activities. While hedging can provide protection against an adverse movement in market prices, it can also preclude a hedger’s opportunity to benefit from a favorable market movement. While it is not the current intention of the Funds to take physical delivery of any Commodity under its Commodity Interests, Commodity Futures Contracts are traditionally not cash-settled contracts, and it is possible to take delivery under these and some Other Interests. Storage costs associated with purchasing the specific commodity could result in costs and other liabilities that could impact the value of the Commodity Futures Contracts or certain Other Interests. Storage costs include the time value of money invested in the physical commodity plus the actual costs of storing the commodity less any benefits from ownership that are not obtained by the holder of a futures contract. In general, Commodity Futures Contracts have a one-month delay for contract delivery and the pricing of back month contracts (the back month is any future delivery month other than the spot month) includes storage costs. To the extent that these storage costs change for the commodity while a Fund holds the Commodity Interests, the value of the Commodity Interests, and therefore the Fund’s NAV, may change as well. The design of each Fund’s Benchmark is such that the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts change throughout the year, and the Fund’s investments must be rolled periodically to reflect the changing composition of the Benchmark. For example, when the second-to-expire Commodity Futures Contract becomes the first-to-expire contract, such contract will no longer be a Benchmark Component Futures Contract and the Fund’s position in it will no longer be consistent with tracking the Benchmark. In the event of a commodity futures market where near-to-expire contracts trade at a higher price than longer-to-expire contracts, a situation referred to as “backwardation,” then absent the impact of the overall movement in the specific commodity prices of the Fund, the value of the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts would tend to rise as they approach expiration. As a result, a Fund may benefit because it would be selling more expensive contracts and buying less expensive ones on an ongoing basis. Conversely, using corn as an example, in the event of a corn futures market where near-to-expire contracts trade at a lower price than longer-to-expire contracts, a situation referred to as “contango,” then absent the impact of the overall movement in corn prices the value of the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts would tend to decline as they approach expiration. As a result the Fund’s total return may be lower than might otherwise be the case because it would be selling less expensive contracts and buying more expensive ones. The impact of backwardation and contango may lead the total return of a Fund to vary significantly from the total return of other price references, such as the spot price of the specific commodity. In the event of a prolonged period of contango, and absent the impact of rising or falling specific commodity prices, this could have a significant negative impact on a Fund’s NAV and total return. The Sponsor may use spreads and straddles as part of its overall trading strategy to closely follow the Benchmark. There is a risk that a Fund’s NAV may not closely track the change in its Benchmark. Spreads combine simultaneous long and short positions in related futures contracts that differ by commodity, by market or by delivery month (for example, long April, short November). Spreads gain or lose value as a result of relative changes in price between the long and short positions. Spreads often reduce risk to investors because the contracts tend to move up or down together. However, both legs of the spread could move against an investor simultaneously, in which case the spread would lose value. Certain types of spreads may face unlimited risk, e.g., because the price of a futures contract underlying a short position can increase by an unlimited amount and the investor would have to take delivery or offset at that price. A commodity straddle takes both long and short option position in the same commodity in the same market and delivery month simultaneously. The buyer of a straddle profits if either the long or the short leg of the straddle moves further than the combined cost of both options. The seller of the straddle profits if both the long and short positions do not trade beyond a range equal to the combined premium for selling both options. If the Sponsor were to utilize a spread or straddle position and the position performed differently than expected, the results could impact that Fund’s tracking error. This could affect the Fund’s investment objective of having its NAV closely track the Benchmark. Additionally, a loss on the position would negatively impact the Fund’s absolute return. Position limits and daily price fluctuation limits set by the CFTC and the exchanges have the potential to cause tracking error, which could cause the price of Shares of the Fund to substantially vary from the Benchmark and prevent you from being able to effectively use the Fund as a way to hedge against underlying commodity-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in the underlying commodity. The Trust Structure and the Trust Agreement Provide Limited Shareholder Rights You will have no rights to participate in the management of any of the Funds and will have to rely on the duties and judgment of the Sponsor to manage the Funds. As interests in separate series of a Delaware statutory trust, the Shares do not involve the rights normally associated with the ownership of shares of a corporation (including, for example, the right to bring shareholder oppression and derivative actions). In addition, the Shares have limited voting and distribution rights (for example, Shareholders do not have the right to elect directors, as the Trust does not have a board of directors, and generally will not receive regular distributions of the net income and capital gains earned by the Fund). The Funds are also not subject to certain investor protection provisions of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and the NYSE Arca governance rules (for example, audit committee requirements). 29 Each Fund is a series of a Delaware statutory trust and not itself a legal entity separate from the other Funds. The Delaware Statutory Trust Act provides that if certain provisions are included in the formation and governing documents of a statutory trust organized in series and if separate and distinct records are maintained for any series and the assets associated with that series are held in separate and distinct records and are accounted for in such separate and distinct records separately from the other assets of the statutory trust, or any series thereof, then the debts, liabilities, obligations and expenses incurred by a particular series are enforceable against the assets of such series only, and not against the assets of the statutory trust generally or any other series thereof. Conversely, none of the debts, liabilities, obligations and expenses incurred with respect to any other series thereof is enforceable against the assets of such series. The Sponsor is not aware of any court case that has interpreted this inter-series limitation on liability or provided any guidance as to what is required for compliance. The Sponsor intends to maintain separate and distinct records for each Fund and account for each Fund separately from any other Trust series, but it is possible a court could conclude that the methods used do not satisfy the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, which would potentially expose assets in any Fund to the liabilities of one or more of the Funds and/or any other Trust series created in the future. Neither the Sponsor nor the Trustee is obligated to, although each may, in its respective discretion, prosecute any action, suit or other proceeding in respect of any Fund property. The Trust Agreement does not confer upon Shareholders the right to prosecute any such action, suit or other proceeding. Rapidly Changing Regulation May Adversely Affect the Ability of the Funds to Meet Their Investment Objectives The regulation of futures markets, futures contracts, and futures exchanges has historically been comprehensive. The CFTC and the exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of a market emergency including, for example, the retroactive implementation of speculative position limits, increased margin requirements, the establishment of daily price limits and the suspension of trading. The regulation of commodity interest transactions in the United States is a rapidly changing area of law and is subject to ongoing modification by governmental and judicial action. Considerable regulatory attention has been focused on non-traditional investment pools that are publicly distributed in the United States. There is a possibility of future regulatory changes within the United States altering, perhaps to a material extent, the nature of an investment in the Funds, or the ability of a Fund to continue to implement its investment strategy. In addition, various national governments outside of the United States have expressed concern regarding the disruptive effects of speculative trading in the commodities markets and the need to regulate the derivatives markets in general. The effect of any future regulatory change on the Funds is impossible to predict but could be substantial and adverse. For additional information regarding recent regulatory developments that may impact the Funds or the Trust, refer to the section entitled “Regulatory Considerations” section of this document. There Is No Assurance that There Will Be a Liquid Market for the Shares of the Funds or the Funds’ Underlying Investments, which May Mean that Shareholders May Not be Able to Sell Their Shares at a Market Price Relatively Close to the NAV If a substantial number of requests for redemption of Redemption Baskets are received by a Fund during a relatively short period of time, the Fund may not be able to satisfy the requests from the Fund’s assets not committed to trading. As a consequence, it could be necessary to liquidate the Fund’s trading positions before the time that its trading strategies would otherwise call for liquidation. A portion of a Fund’s investments could be illiquid, which could cause large losses to investors at any time or from time to time. A Fund may not always be able to liquidate its positions in its investments at the desired price. As to futures contracts, it may be difficult to execute a trade at a specific price when there is a relatively small volume of buy and sell orders in a market. Limits imposed by futures exchanges or other regulatory organizations, such as accountability levels, position limits and price fluctuation limits, may contribute to a lack of liquidity with respect to some exchange-traded commodity Interests. In addition, over-the-counter contracts and cleared swaps may be illiquid because they are contracts between two parties and generally may not be transferred by one party to a third party without the counterparty’s consent. Conversely, a counterparty may give its consent, but the Fund still may not be able to transfer an over-the-counter Commodity Interest to a third party due to concerns regarding the counterparty’s credit risk. The exchanges set daily price fluctuation limits on futures contracts. The daily price fluctuation limit establishes the maximum amount that the price of futures contracts may vary either up or down from the previous day’s settlement price. Once the daily price fluctuation limit has been reached in a particular futures contract, no trades may be made at a price beyond that limit. On March 12, 2014, the CME announced that, subject to CFTC approval, it would replace its fixed price fluctuation limits with variable price limits. The change was approved and went into effect May 1, 2014. This change amended Appendix A, Chapter 10 (Corn Futures), Section 1012.D (Trading Specifications – Daily Price Limits) to read as follows: Daily price limits for Corn futures are reset every six months. The first reset date would be the first trading day in May based on the following: Daily settlement prices are collected for the nearest July contract over 45 consecutive trading days before and on the business day prior to April 16th. The average price is calculated based on the collected settlement prices and then multiplied by seven percent. The resulting number rounded to the nearest 5 cents per bushel, or 20 cents per bushel, whichever is higher will be the new initial price limits for Corn futures and will become effective on the first trading day in May and will remain in effect through the last trading day in October. 30 The second reset date would be the first trading day in November based on the following: Daily settlement prices are collected for the nearest December contract over 45 consecutive trading days before and on the business day prior to October 16th. The average price is calculated based on the collected settlement prices and then multiplied by seven percent. The resulting number, rounded to the nearest 5 cents per bushel, or 20 cents per bushel, whichever is higher, will be the new initial price limits for Corn futures and will become effective on the first trading day in November and will remain in effect through the last trading day in next April. There shall be no trading in Corn futures at a price more than the initial price limit above or below the previous day’s settlement price. Should two or more Corn futures contract months within the first five listed non-spot contracts (or the remaining contract month in a crop year, which is the September contract) settle at limit, the daily price limits for all contract months shall increase by 50 percent the next business day, rounded up to the nearest 5 cents per bushel. If no Corn futures contract month settles at the expanded limit the next business day, daily price limits for all contract months shall revert back to the initial price limit the following business day. There shall be no price limits on the current month contract on or after the second business day preceding the first day of the delivery month. A market disruption, such as a foreign government taking political actions that disrupt the market in its currency, its commodity production or exports, or in another major export, can also make it difficult to liquidate a position. Unexpected market illiquidity may cause major losses to investors at any time or from time to time. In addition, no Fund intends at this time to establish a credit facility, which would provide an additional source of liquidity, but instead will rely only on the Treasury Securities, cash and/or cash equivalents that it holds to meet its liquidity needs. The anticipated large value of the positions in a specific Commodity Interest that the Sponsor will acquire or enter into for a Fund increases the risk of illiquidity. Because Commodity Interests may be illiquid, a Fund’s holdings may be more difficult to liquidate at favorable prices in periods of illiquid markets and losses may be incurred during the period in which positions are being liquidated. A Fund may invest in Other Commodity Interests. To the extent that these Other Commodity Interests are contracts individually negotiated between their parties, they may not be as liquid as Commodity Futures Contracts and will expose the Fund to credit risk that its counterparty may not be able to satisfy its obligations to the Fund. The changing nature of the participants in the commodity specific market will influence whether futures prices are above or below the expected future spot price. Producers of the specific commodity will typically seek to hedge against falling commodity prices by selling Commodity Futures Contracts. Therefore, if commodity producers become the predominant hedgers in the futures market, prices of Commodity Futures Contracts will typically be below expected future spot prices. Conversely, if the predominant hedgers in the futures market are the purchasers of the commodity, who purchase Commodity Futures Contracts to hedge against a rise in prices, prices of the Commodity Futures Contracts will likely be higher than expected future spot prices. This can have significant implications for a Fund when it is time to sell a Commodity Futures Contract that is no longer a Benchmark Component Futures Contract and purchase a new Commodity Futures Contract or to sell a Commodity Futures Contract to meet redemption requests. A Fund’s NAV includes, in part, any unrealized profits or losses on open swap agreements, futures or forward contracts. Under normal circumstances, the NAV reflects the quoted exchange settlement price of open futures contracts on the date when the NAV is being calculated. In instances when the quoted settlement price of a futures contract traded on an exchange may not be reflective of fair value based on market condition, generally due to the operation of daily limits or other rules of the exchange or otherwise, the NAV may not reflect the fair value of open future contracts on such date. For purposes of financial statements and reports, the Sponsor will recalculate the NAV where necessary to reflect the “fair value” of a Futures Contract when the Futures Contract closes at its price fluctuation limit for the day. In the event that one or more Authorized Purchasers that are actively involved in purchasing and selling Shares cease to be so involved, the liquidity of the Shares will likely decrease, which could adversely affect the market price of the Shares and result in your incurring a loss on your investment. In addition, a decision by a market maker or lead market maker to cease activities for the Fund could adversely affect liquidity, the spread between the bid and ask quotes, and potentially the price of the Shares. The Sponsor can make no guarantees that participation by Authorized Purchasers or market makers will continue. If a minimum number of Shares is outstanding for a Fund, market makers may be less willing to purchase Shares of that Fund in the secondary market which may limit your ability to sell Shares. There are a minimum number of baskets and associated Shares specified for each Fund. Once the minimum number of baskets is reached, there can be no more redemptions by an Authorized Purchaser of that Fund until there has been a Creation Basket. In such case, market makers may be less willing to purchase Shares of that Fund from investors in the secondary market, which may in turn limit the ability of Shareholders of that Fund to sell their Shares in the secondary market. Trading in Shares of a Fund may be halted due to market conditions or, in light of NYSE Arca rules and procedures, for reasons that, in the view of the NYSE Arca, make trading in Shares inadvisable. In addition, trading is subject to trading halts caused by extraordinary market volatility pursuant to “circuit breaker” rules that require trading to be halted for a specified period based on a specified market decline. There can be no assurance that the requirements necessary to maintain the listing of the Shares will continue to be met or will remain unchanged. A Fund will be terminated if its Shares are delisted. There is Credit Risk Associated with the Operation of the Funds, Service Providers and Counter-Parties Which May Cause an Investment Loss For all of the Funds except for TAGS, the majority of each Fund’s assets are held in short-term Treasury Securities, cash and/or cash equivalents with the Custodian, although the Sponsor may choose to place any cash on deposit with an alternate financial institution unrelated to the 31 Custodian (“Financial Institution”). Any cash or cash equivalents invested by a Fund will be rated in the highest short-term rating category by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization or will be deemed by the Sponsor to be of comparable quality. The insolvency of the Custodian or any Financial Institution in which funds are deposited could result in a complete loss of a Fund’s assets held by the Custodian or the Financial Institution, which, at any given time, would likely comprise a substantial portion of a Fund’s total assets. Assets deposited with the Custodian or a Financial Institution may, at times, exceed federally insured limits. For TAGS, the vast majority of the Fund’s assets are held in Shares of the Underlying Funds. The failure or insolvency of the Custodian or the Financial Institution could impact the ability to access in a timely manner TAGS’ assets held by the Custodian. Under CFTC regulations, a clearing broker with respect to a Fund’s exchange-traded Commodity Interests must maintain customers’ assets in a bulk segregated account. If a clearing broker fails to do so, or is unable to satisfy a substantial deficit in a customer account, its other customers may be subject to risk of a substantial loss of their funds in the event of that clearing broker’s bankruptcy. In that event, the clearing broker’s customers, such as a Fund, are entitled to recover, even in respect of property specifically traceable to them, only a proportional share of all property available for distribution to all of that clearing broker’s customers. A Fund also may be subject to the risk of the failure of, or delay in performance by, any exchanges and markets and their clearing organizations, if any, on which Commodity Interests are traded. From time to time, the clearing brokers may be subject to legal or regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of their business. A clearing broker’s involvement in costly or time-consuming legal proceedings may divert financial resources or personnel away from the clearing broker’s trading operations, which could impair the clearing broker’s ability to successfully execute and clear a Fund’s trades. For additional information regarding recent regulatory developments that may impact the Funds or the Trust, refer to the section entitled “Regulatory Considerations” section of this document. Commodity pools’ trading positions in futures contracts or other commodity interests are typically required to be secured by the deposit of margin funds that represent only a small percentage of a futures contract’s (or other commodity interest’s) entire market value. This feature permits commodity pools to “leverage” their assets by purchasing or selling futures contracts (or other commodity interests) with an aggregate notional amount in excess of the commodity pool’s assets. While this leverage can increase a pool’s profits, relatively small adverse movements in the price of a pool’s commodity interests can cause significant losses to the pool. While the Sponsor does not intend to leverage the Funds’ assets, it is not prohibited from doing so under the Trust Agreement. If the Sponsor were to cause or permit a Fund to become leveraged, you could lose all or substantially all of your investment if the Fund’s trading positions suddenly turns unprofitable. An “exchange for related position” (“EFRP”) can be used by the Fund as a technique to facilitate the exchanging of a futures hedge position against a creation or redemption order, and thus the Fund may use an EFRP transaction in connection with the creation and redemption of shares. The market specialist/market maker that is the ultimate purchaser or seller of shares in connection with the creation or redemption basket, respectively, agrees to sell or purchase a corresponding offsetting futures position which is then settled on the same business day as a cleared futures transaction by the FCMs. The Fund will become subject to the credit risk of the market specialist/market maker until the EFRP is settled or terminated. The Fund reports all activity related to EFRP transactions under the procedures and guidelines of the CFTC and the exchanges on which the futures are traded. A portion of the Fund’s assets may be used to trade over-the-counter Commodity Interests, such as forward contracts or swaps. Currently, over-the-counter contracts are typically traded on a principal-to-principal non-cleared basis through dealer markets that are dominated by major money center and investment banks and other institutions and that prior to the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act had been essentially unregulated by the CFTC, although this is an area of pending, substantial regulatory change. The markets for over-the-counter contracts will continue to rely upon the integrity of market participants in lieu of the additional regulation imposed by the CFTC on participants in the futures markets. To date, the forward markets have been largely unregulated, forward contracts have been executed bi-laterally and, in general historically, forward contracts have not been cleared or guaranteed by a third party. On November 16, 2012, the Secretary of the Treasury issued a final determination that exempts both foreign exchange swaps and foreign exchange forwards from the definition of “swap” and, by extension, additional regulatory requirements (such as clearing and margin). The final determination does not extend to other FX derivatives, such as FX options, certain currency swaps, and non-deliverable forwards. While the Dodd-Frank Act and certain regulations adopted thereunder are intended to provide additional protections to participants in the over-the-counter market, the lack of regulation in these markets could expose the Fund in certain circumstances to significant losses in the event of trading abuses or financial failure by participants. While increased regulation of over-the-counter Commodity Interests is likely to result from changes that are required to be effectuated by the Dodd-Frank Act, there is no guarantee that such increased regulation will be effective to reduce these risks. Each Fund faces the risk of non-performance by the counterparties to the over-the-counter contracts. Unlike in futures contracts, the counterparty to these contracts is generally a single bank or other financial institution, rather than a clearing organization backed by a group of financial institutions. As a result, there will be greater counterparty credit risk in these transactions. A counterparty may not be able to meet its obligations to a Fund, in which case the Fund could suffer significant losses on these contracts. If a counterparty becomes bankrupt or otherwise fails to perform its obligations due to financial difficulties, a Fund may experience significant delays in obtaining any recovery in a bankruptcy or other reorganization proceeding. During any such period, the Fund may have difficulty in determining the value of its contracts with the counterparty, which in turn could result in the overstatement or understatement of the Fund’s NAV. The Fund may eventually obtain only limited recovery or no recovery in such circumstances. Over-the-counter contracts may have terms that make them less marketable than Futures Contracts or cleared swaps. Over-the-counter contracts are less marketable because they are not traded on an exchange, do not have uniform terms and conditions, and are entered into based upon the creditworthiness of the parties and the availability of credit support, such as collateral, and in general, they are not transferable without the consent of the counterparty. These conditions make such contracts less liquid than standardized futures contracts traded on a commodities exchange and diminish the ability to realize the full value of such contracts. In addition, even if collateral is used to reduce counterparty credit 32 risk, sudden changes in the value of over-the-counter transactions may leave a party open to financial risk due to a counterparty default since the collateral held may not cover a party’s exposure on the transaction in such situations. In general, valuing OTC derivatives is less certain than valuing actively traded financial instruments such as exchange traded futures contracts and securities or cleared swaps because the price and terms on which such OTC derivatives are entered into or can be terminated are individually negotiated, and those prices and terms may not reflect the best price or terms available from other sources. In addition, while market makers and dealers generally quote indicative prices or terms for entering into or terminating OTC contracts, they typically are not contractually obligated to do so, particularly if they are not a party to the transaction. As a result, it may be difficult to obtain an independent value for an outstanding OTC derivatives transaction. There are Risks Associated with Trading in International Markets A significant portion of the Futures Contracts entered into by the Funds is traded on United States exchanges. However, a portion of the Funds’ trades may take place on markets or exchanges outside the United States. Some non-U.S. markets present risks because they are not subject to the same degree of regulation as their U.S. counterparts. None of the CFTC, NFA, or any domestic exchange regulates activities of any foreign boards of trade or exchanges, including the execution, delivery and clearing of transactions, nor has the power to compel enforcement of the rules of a foreign board of trade or exchange or of any applicable non-U.S. laws. Similarly, the rights of market participants, such as the Funds, in the event of the insolvency or bankruptcy of a non-U.S. market or broker are also likely to be more limited than in the case of U.S. markets or brokers. As a result, in these markets, the Funds have less legal and regulatory protection than it does when they trade domestically. Currently the Funds do not place trades on any markets or exchanges outside of the United States and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. In some of these non-U.S. markets, the performance on a futures contract is the responsibility of the counterparty and is not backed by an exchange or clearing corporation and therefore exposes the Funds to credit risk. Additionally, trading on non-U.S. exchanges is subject to the risks presented by exchange controls, expropriation, increased tax burdens and exposure to local economic declines and political instability. An adverse development with respect to any of these variables could reduce the profit or increase the loss earned on trades in the affected international markets. The price of any non-U.S. Commodity Interest and, therefore, the potential profit and loss on such investment, may be affected by any variance in the foreign exchange rate between the time the order is placed and the time it is liquidated, offset or exercised. As a result, changes in the value of the local currency relative to the U.S. dollar may cause losses to a Fund even if the contract is profitable. The Funds invest primarily in Commodity Interests that are traded or sold in the United States. However, a portion of the trades for a Fund may take place in markets and on exchanges outside the United States. Some non-U.S. markets present risks because they are not subject to the same degree of regulation as their U.S. counterparts. In some of these non-U.S. markets, the performance on a contract is the responsibility of the counterparty and is not backed by an exchange or clearing corporation and therefore exposes a Fund to credit risk. Trading in non-U.S. markets also leaves a Fund susceptible to fluctuations in the value of the local currency against the U.S. dollar. Some non-U.S. exchanges also may be in a more developmental stage so that prior price histories may not be indicative of current price dynamics. In addition, a Fund may not have the same access to certain positions on foreign trading exchanges as do local traders, and the historical market data on which the Sponsor bases its strategies may not be as reliable or accessible as it is for U.S. exchanges. The Funds are Treated as Partnerships for Tax Purposes which Means that There May be a Lack of Certainty as to Tax Treatment for an Investor’s Gains and Losses Cash or property will be distributed at the sole discretion of the Sponsor, and the Sponsor currently does not intend to make cash or other distributions with respect to Shares. You will be required to pay U.S. federal income tax and, in some cases, state, local, or foreign income tax, on your allocable share of a Fund’s taxable income, without regard to whether you receive distributions or the amount of any distributions. Therefore, the tax liability resulting from your ownership of Shares may exceed the amount of cash or value of property (if any) distributed. Due to the application of the assumptions and conventions applied by a Fund in making allocations for U.S. federal income tax purposes and other factors, your allocable share of the Fund’s income, gain, deduction or loss may be different than your economic profit or loss from your Shares for a taxable year. This difference could be temporary or permanent and, if permanent, could result in your being taxed on amounts in excess of your economic income. The Funds are treated as partnerships for United States federal income tax purposes. The U.S. tax rules pertaining to entities taxed as partnerships are complex and their application to publicly traded partnerships such as the Funds are in many respects uncertain. The Funds apply certain assumptions and conventions in an attempt to comply with the intent of the applicable rules and to report taxable income, gains, deductions, losses and credits in a manner that properly reflects Shareholders’ economic gains and losses. These assumptions and conventions may not fully comply with all aspects of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”) and applicable Treasury Regulations, however, and it is possible that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) will successfully challenge our allocation methods and require us to reallocate items of income, gain, deduction, loss or credit in a manner that adversely affects you. If this occurs, you may be required to file an amended tax return and to pay additional taxes plus deficiency interest. The Trust has received an opinion of counsel that, under current U.S. federal income tax laws, the Funds will be treated as partnerships that are not taxable as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes, provided that (i) at least 90 percent of each Fund’s annual gross income consists of “qualifying income” as defined in the Code, (ii) the Funds are organized and operated in accordance with its governing agreements and applicable law, and (iii) the Funds do not elect to be taxed as corporations for federal income tax purposes. Although the Sponsor anticipates that the Funds have satisfied and will continue to satisfy the “qualifying income” requirement for all of its taxable years, that result cannot be assured. The Funds have not requested and will not request any ruling from the IRS with respect to its classification as partnerships not taxable as 33 corporations for federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to successfully assert that the Funds are taxable as corporations for federal income tax purposes in any taxable year, rather than passing through its income, gains, losses and deductions proportionately to Shareholders, each Fund would be subject to tax on its net income for the year at corporate tax rates. In addition, although the Sponsor does not currently intend to make distributions with respect to Shares, any distributions would be taxable to Shareholders as dividend income. Taxation of the Funds as corporations could materially reduce the after-tax return on an investment in Shares and could substantially reduce the value of your Shares. Risks Specific to the Teucrium Corn Fund Investors may choose to use the Fund as a means of investing indirectly in corn, and there are risks involved in such investments. The risks and hazards that are inherent in corn production may cause the price of corn to fluctuate widely. Price movements for corn are influenced by, among other things: weather conditions, crop failure, production decisions, governmental policies, changing demand, the corn harvest cycle, and various economic and monetary events. Corn production is also subject to U.S. federal, state and local regulations that materially affect operations. The price movements for corn are influenced by, among other things, weather conditions, crop disease, transportation difficulties, various planting, growing and harvesting problems, governmental policies, changing demand, and seasonal fluctuations in supply. More generally, commodity prices may be influenced by economic and monetary events such as changes in interest rates, changes in balances of payments and trade, U.S. and international inflation rates, currency valuations and devaluations, U.S. and international economic events, and changes in the philosophies and emotions of market participants. Because the Fund invests primarily in interests in a single commodity, it is not a diversified investment vehicle, and therefore may be subject to greater volatility than a diversified portfolio of stocks or bonds or a more diversified commodity pool. The Fund is subject to the risks and hazards of the corn market because it invests in Corn Interests. The risks and hazards that are inherent in the corn market may cause the price of corn to fluctuate widely. If the changes in percentage terms of the Fund’s Shares accurately track the percentage changes in the Benchmark or the spot price of corn, then the price of its Shares will fluctuate accordingly. The price and availability of corn is influenced by economic and industry conditions, including but not limited to supply and demand factors such as: crop disease and infestation (including, but not limited to, Leaf Blight, Ear Rot and Root Rot); transportation difficulties; various planting, growing, or harvesting problems; and severe weather conditions (particularly during the spring planting season and the fall harvest) such as drought, floods, or frost that are difficult to anticipate and which cannot be controlled. Demand for corn in the United States to produce ethanol has also been a significant factor affecting the price of corn. In turn, demand for ethanol has tended to increase when the price of gasoline has increased, and has been significantly affected by United States governmental policies designed to encourage the production of ethanol. Recent changes in government policy have the potential to reduce the demand for ethanol over the next several years. Additionally, demand for corn is affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions, and demographic trends. Finally, because corn is often used as an ingredient in livestock feed, demand for corn is subject to risks associated with the outbreak of livestock disease. Corn production is subject to United States federal, state, and local policies and regulations that materially affect operations. Governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies, incentives, acreage control, and import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products, can influence the planting of certain crops, the location and size of crop production, the volume and types of imports and exports, the availability and competitiveness of feedstocks as raw materials, and industry profitability. Additionally, corn production is affected by laws and regulations relating to, but not limited to, the sourcing, transporting, storing, and processing of agricultural raw materials as well as the transporting, storing and distributing of related agricultural products. U.S. corn producers also must comply with various environmental laws and regulations, such as those regulating the use of certain pesticides, and local laws that regulate the production of genetically modified crops. In addition, international trade disputes can adversely affect agricultural commodity trade flows by limiting or disrupting trade between countries or regions. Seasonal fluctuations in the price of corn may cause risk to an investor because of the possibility that Share prices will be depressed because of the corn harvest cycle. In the United States, the corn market is normally at its weakest point, and corn prices are lowest, shortly before and during the harvest (between September and November), due to the high supply of corn in the market. Conversely, corn prices are generally highest during the winter and spring (between December and May), when farmer-owned corn has largely been sold and used. Seasonal corn market peaks generally occur around February or March. These normal market conditions are, however, often influenced by weather patterns, and domestic and global economic conditions, among others factors, and any specific year may not necessarily follow the traditional seasonal fluctuations described above. In the futures market, these seasonal fluctuations are typically reflected in contracts expiring in the relevant season (e.g., contracts expiring during the harvest season are typically priced lower than contracts expiring in the winter and spring). Thus, seasonal fluctuations could result in an investor incurring losses upon the sale of Fund Shares, particularly if the investor needs to sell Shares when the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts are, in whole or part, Corn Futures Contracts expiring in the fall. The CFTC and U.S. designated contract markets such as the CBOT have established position limits on the maximum net long or net short futures contracts in commodity interests that any person or group of persons under common trading control (other than as a hedge, which an investment by the Fund is not) may hold, own or control. For example, the current position limit for investments at any one time in Corn Futures Contracts are 600 spot month contracts, 33,000 contracts expiring in any other single month, and 33,000 total for all months. Cleared Corn Swaps are subject to position limits of 33,000 in any single month and 33,000 total for all months, and are measured separately from, the limits on Corn Futures Contracts. However, under rules proposed by the CFTC, Corn Futures Contracts, Cleared Corn Swaps, and over-the-counter corn contracts will be subject to a single position limit. These position limits are fixed ceilings that the Fund would not be able to exceed without specific CFTC authorization. 34 All of these limits may potentially cause a tracking error between the price of the Shares and the Benchmark. This may in turn prevent you from being able to effectively use the Fund as a way to hedge against corn-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in corn. The Fund does not intend to limit the size of the offering and will attempt to expose substantially all of its proceeds to the corn market utilizing Corn Interests. If the Fund encounters position limits, accountability levels, or price fluctuation limits for Corn Futures Contracts and/or Cleared Corn Swaps on the CBOT, it may then, if permitted under applicable regulatory requirements, purchase Other Corn Interests and/or Corn Futures Contracts listed on foreign exchanges. However, the Corn Futures Contracts available on such foreign exchanges may have different underlying sizes, deliveries, and prices. In addition, the Corn Futures Contracts available on these exchanges may be subject to their own position limits and accountability levels. In any case, notwithstanding the potential availability of these instruments in certain circumstances, position limits could force the Fund to limit the number of Creation Baskets that it sells. Risks Specific to the Teucrium Soybean Fund Investors may choose to use the Fund as a means of investing indirectly in soybeans, and there are risks involved in such investments. The risks and hazards that are inherent in soybean production may cause the price of soybean to fluctuate widely. Global price movements for soybean are influenced by, among other things: weather conditions, crop failure, production decisions, governmental policies, changing demand, the soybean harvest cycle, and various economic and monetary events. Soybean production is also subject to domestic and foreign regulations that materially affect operations. As discussed in more detail above, price movements for soybeans are influenced by, among other things, weather conditions, crop disease, transportation difficulties, various planting, growing and harvesting problems, governmental policies, changing demand, and seasonal fluctuations in supply. More generally, commodity prices may be influenced by economic and monetary events such as changes in interest rates, changes in balances of payments and trade, U.S. and international inflation rates, currency valuations and devaluations, U.S. and international economic events, and changes in the philosophies and emotions of market participants. Because the Fund invests primarily in interests in a single commodity, it is not a diversified investment vehicle, and therefore may be subject to greater volatility than a diversified portfolio of stocks or bonds or a more diversified commodity pool. The Fund is subject to the risks and hazards of the soybean market because it invests in Soybean Interests. The risks and hazards that are inherent in the soybean market may cause the price of soybeans to fluctuate widely. If the changes in percentage terms of the Fund’s Shares accurately track the percentage changes in the Benchmark or the spot price of soybeans, then the price of its Shares will fluctuate accordingly. The price and availability of soybeans is influenced by economic and industry conditions, including but not limited to supply and demand factors such as: crop disease; weed control; water availability; various planting, growing, or harvesting problems; severe weather conditions such as drought, floods, heavy rains, frost, or natural disasters that are difficult to anticipate and which cannot be controlled; uncontrolled fires, including arson; challenges in doing business with foreign companies; legal and regulatory restrictions; transportation costs; interruptions in energy supply; currency exchange rate fluctuations; and political and economic instability. Additionally, demand for soybeans is affected by changes in international, national, regional and local economic conditions, and demographic trends. The increased production of soybean crops in South America and the rising demand for soybeans in emerging nations such as China and India have increased competition in the soybean market. The supply of soybeans could be reduced by the spread of soybean rust. Soybean rust is a wind-borne fungal disease that attacks soybeans. Although soybean rust can be killed with chemicals, chemical treatment increases production costs for farmers. Soybean production is subject to United States and foreign policies and regulations that materially affect operations. Governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies, incentives, acreage control, and import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products, can influence the planting of certain crops, the location and size of crop production, the volume and types of imports and exports, and industry profitability. Additionally, soybean production is affected by laws and regulations relating to, but not limited to, the sourcing, transporting, storing and processing of agricultural raw materials as well as the transporting, storing and distributing of related agricultural products. Soybean producers also may need to comply with various environmental laws and regulations, such as those regulating the use of certain pesticides. In addition, international trade disputes can adversely affect agricultural commodity trade flows by limiting or disrupting trade between countries or regions. Because processing soybean oil can create trans-fats, the demand for soybean oil may decrease due to heightened governmental regulation of trans-fats or trans-fatty acids. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration currently requires food manufacturers to disclose levels of trans-fats contained in their products, and various local governments have enacted or are considering restrictions on the use of trans-fats in restaurants. Several food processors have either switched or indicated an intention to switch to oil products with lower levels of trans-fats or trans-fatty acids. In recent years, there has been increased global interest in the production of biofuels as alternatives to traditional fossil fuels and as a means of promoting energy independence. Soybeans can be converted into biofuels such as biodiesel. Accordingly, the soybean market has become increasingly affected by demand for biofuels and related legislation. The costs related to soybean production could increase and soybean supply could decrease as a result of restrictions on the use of genetically modified soybeans, including requirements to segregate genetically modified soybeans and the products generated from them from other soybean products. 35 Seasonal fluctuations in the price of soybeans may cause risk to an investor because of the possibility that Share prices will be depressed because of the soybean harvest cycle. In the futures market, fluctuations are typically reflected in contracts expiring in the harvest season (i.e., contracts expiring during the fall are typically priced lower than contracts expiring in the winter and spring). Thus, seasonal fluctuations could result in an investor incurring losses upon the sale of Fund Shares, particularly if the investor needs to sell Shares when the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts are, in whole or part, Soybean Futures Contracts expiring in the fall. The CFTC and U.S. designated contract markets have established position limits on the maximum net long or net short futures contracts in commodity interests that any person or group of persons under common trading control (other than as a hedge, which an investment by the Fund is not) may hold, own or control. For example, the current position limit for investments at any one time in the Soybean Futures Contracts are 600 spot month contracts, 15,000 contracts expiring in any other single month, and 15,000 total for all months. Cleared Soybean Swaps (i.e., Soybean Calendar Swaps as currently offered on the CBOT) are subject to position limits that are currently measured separately from the limits on Soybean Futures Contracts. The position limits for Cleared Soybeans Swaps are 15,000 contracts expiring in any other single month, and 15,000 total for all months. However, under rules proposed by the CFTC, Soybean Futures Contracts, Cleared Soybean Swaps, and over-the-counter soybean contracts will be subject to a single position limit. These position limits are fixed ceilings that the Fund would not be able to exceed without specific CFTC authorization. All of these limits may potentially cause a tracking error between the price of the Shares and the Benchmark. This may in turn prevent you from being able to effectively use the Fund as a way to hedge against soybean-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in soybeans. If the Fund encounters position limits or price fluctuation limits for Soybean Futures Contracts and/or Cleared Soybean Swaps on the CBOT, it may then, if permitted under applicable regulatory requirements, purchase Other Soybean Interests and/or Soybean Futures Contracts listed on foreign exchanges. However, the Soybean Futures Contracts available on such foreign exchanges may have different underlying sizes, deliveries, and prices. In addition, the Soybean Futures Contracts available on these exchanges may be subject to their own position limits or similar restrictions. In any case, notwithstanding the potential availability of these instruments in certain circumstances, position limits could force the Fund to limit the number of Creation Baskets that it sells. Risks Specific to the Teucrium Sugar Fund Investors may choose to use the Fund as a means of investing indirectly in sugar, and there are risks involved in such investments. The risks and hazards that are inherent in sugar production may cause the price of sugar to fluctuate widely. Global price movements for sugar are influenced by, among other things: weather conditions, crop failure, production decisions, governmental policies, changing demand, the sugar harvest cycle, and various economic and monetary events. Sugar production is also subject to domestic and foreign regulations that materially affect operations. As discussed in more detail above, price movements for sugar are influenced by, among other things, weather conditions, crop disease, transportation difficulties, various planting, growing and harvesting problems, governmental policies, changing demand, and seasonal fluctuations in supply. More generally, commodity prices may be influenced by economic and monetary events such as changes in interest rates, changes in balances of payments and trade, U.S. and international inflation rates, currency valuations and devaluations, U.S. and international economic events, and changes in the philosophies and emotions of market participants. Because the Fund invests primarily in interests in a single commodity, it is not a diversified investment vehicle, and therefore may be subject to greater volatility than a diversified portfolio of stocks or bonds or a more diversified commodity pool. The Fund is subject to the risks and hazards of the world sugar market because it invests in Sugar Interests. The two primary sources for the production of sugar are sugarcane and sugar beets, both of which are grown in various countries around the world. The risks and hazards that are inherent in the world sugar market may cause the price of sugar to fluctuate widely. If the changes in percentage terms of the Fund’s Shares accurately track the percentage changes in the Benchmark or the spot price of sugar, then the price of its Shares will fluctuate accordingly. The global price and availability of sugar is influenced by economic and industry conditions, including but not limited to supply and demand factors such as: crop disease; weed control; water availability; various planting, growing, or harvesting problems; severe weather conditions such as drought, floods, or frost that are difficult to anticipate and which cannot be controlled; uncontrolled fires, including arson; challenges in doing business with foreign companies; legal and regulatory restrictions; fluctuation of shipping rates; currency exchange rate fluctuations; and political and economic instability. Global demand for sugar to produce ethanol has also been a significant factor affecting the price of sugar. Additionally, demand for sugar is affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions, and demographic trends. The spread of consumerism and the rising affluence of emerging nations such as China and India have created demand for sugar. An influx of people in developing countries moving from rural to urban areas may create more disposable income to be spent on sugar products, and might also reduce sugar production in rural areas on account of worker shortages, all of which would result in upward pressure on sugar prices. On the other hand, public health concerns regarding obesity, heart disease and diabetes, particularly in developed countries, may reduce demand for sugar. In light of the time it takes to grow sugarcane and sugar beets and the cost of new facilities for processing these crops, it may not be possible to increase supply quickly or in a cost-effective manner in response to an increase in demand for sugar. Sugar production is subject to United States and foreign policies and regulations that materially affect operations. Governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies, incentives, acreage control, and import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products, can influence the planting of certain crops, the location and size of crop production, the volume and types of imports and exports, and industry profitability. Many foreign countries subsidize sugar production, resulting in lower 36 prices, but this has led other countries, including the United States, to impose tariffs and import restrictions on sugar imports. Sugar producers also may need to comply with various environmental laws and regulations, such as those regulating the use of certain pesticides. Seasonal fluctuations in the price of sugar may cause risk to an investor because of the possibility that Share prices will be depressed because of the sugar harvest cycle. In the futures market, contracts expiring during the harvest season are typically priced lower than contracts expiring in the winter and spring. While the sugar harvest seasons varies from country to country, prices of Sugar Futures Contracts tend to be lowest in the late spring and early summer, reflecting the harvest season in Brazil, the world’s leading producer of sugarcane. Thus, seasonal fluctuations could result in an investor incurring losses upon the sale of Fund Shares, particularly if the investor needs to sell Shares when the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts are, in whole or part, Sugar Futures Contracts expiring in the late spring or early summer. U.S. designated contract markets such as the ICE Futures and the NYMEX have established position limits and accountability levels on the maximum net long or net short Sugar Futures Contracts that any person or group of persons under common trading control may hold, own or control. The CFTC has not currently set position limits for Sugar Futures Contracts, and the ICE Futures and the NYMEX have established position limits only on spot month Sugar No. 11 Futures Contracts. For example, the ICE Futures’ position limit for Sugar No. 11 Futures Contracts is 5,000 spot month contracts, whereas the NYMEX Sugar No. 11 Futures limit is 1,000 contracts, generally applicable only during the last month before expiration and limits on 9,000 contracts for a single month or cumulative amount. All Sugar Futures Contracts held under the control of the Sponsor, including those held by any future series of the Trust, will be aggregated in determining the application of these position limits. However, because spot month contracts are not Benchmark Component Futures Contracts and the Fund’s roll strategy calls for the sale of all spot month Sugar No.11 Futures Contracts prior to the time the position limits would become applicable, it is unlikely that position limits on Sugar Futures Contracts will come into play. NYMEX has designated position limits on NYMEX No. 11 Sugar futures of 1,000 contracts for Expiration Month. In addition, accountability levels of 9,000 contracts for any one month and a maximum of 9,000 contracts for all combined months have been established. In contrast to position limits, accountability levels are not fixed ceilings, but rather thresholds above which an exchange may exercise greater scrutiny and control over an investor, including by imposing position limits on the investor. For example, the current ICE Futures-established accountability level for investments in Sugar No. 11 Futures Contracts for any one month is 10,000, and the accountability level for all combined months is 15,000. (The current accountability level for Sugar No. 11 Futures Contracts traded on the NYMEX is 9,000 for any one month, and 9,000 for all combined months, and ICE Futures has established no accountability level with regard to Sugar No. 16 Futures Contracts. However, ICE Futures has established position limits for Sugar No. 16 Futures Contracts of 1,000 for any one month, and 1,000 for all combined months.) However, under rules proposed by the CFTC, Sugar Futures Contracts and over-the-counter sugar contracts will be subject to a single position limit. Even though accountability levels are not fixed ceilings, the Fund does not intend to invest in Sugar Futures Contracts in excess of any applicable accountability levels. All of these limits may potentially cause a tracking error between the price of the Shares and the Benchmark. This may in turn prevent you from being able to effectively use the Fund as a way to hedge against sugar-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in sugar. If the Fund encounters accountability levels, position limits, or price fluctuation limits for Sugar Futures Contracts on ICE Futures, it may then, if permitted under applicable regulatory requirements, purchase Other Sugar Interests and/or Sugar Futures Contracts listed on the NYMEX or foreign exchanges. However, the Sugar Futures Contracts available on such foreign exchanges may have different underlying sizes, deliveries, and prices. In addition, the Sugar Futures Contracts available on these exchanges may be subject to their own position limits and accountability levels. In any case, notwithstanding the potential availability of these instruments in certain circumstances, position limits could force the Fund to limit the number of Creation Baskets that it sells. Risks Specific to the Teucrium Wheat Fund Investors may choose to use the Fund as a means of investing indirectly in wheat, and there are risks involved in such investments. The risks and hazards that are inherent in wheat production may cause the price of wheat to fluctuate widely. Price movements for wheat are influenced by, among other things: weather conditions, crop failure, production decisions, governmental policies, changing demand, the wheat harvest cycle, and various economic and monetary events. Wheat production is also subject to U.S. federal, state and local regulations that materially affect operations. As discussed in more detail above, price movements for wheat are influenced by, among other things, weather conditions, crop disease, transportation difficulties, various planting, growing and harvesting problems, governmental policies, changing demand, and seasonal fluctuations in supply. More generally, commodity prices may be influenced by economic and monetary events such as changes in interest rates, changes in balances of payments and trade, U.S. and international inflation rates, currency valuations and devaluations, U.S. and international economic events, and changes in the philosophies and emotions of market participants. Because the Fund invests primarily in interests in a single commodity, it is not a diversified investment vehicle, and therefore may be subject to greater volatility than a diversified portfolio of stocks or bonds or a more diversified commodity pool. The Fund is subject to the risks and hazards of the wheat market because it invests in Wheat Interests. The risks and hazards that are inherent in the wheat market may cause the price of wheat to fluctuate widely. If the changes in percentage terms of the Fund’s Shares accurately track the percentage changes in the Benchmark or the spot price of wheat, then the price of its Shares will fluctuate accordingly. 37 The price and availability of wheat is influenced by economic and industry conditions, including but not limited to supply and demand factors such as: crop disease; weed control; water availability; various planting, growing, or harvesting problems; severe weather conditions such as drought, floods, or frost that are difficult to anticipate and which cannot be controlled. Demand for food products made from wheat flour is affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions, and demographic trends. More specifically, demand for such food products in the United States is relatively unaffected by changes in wheat prices or disposable income, but is closely tied to tastes and preferences. For example, in recent years the increase in the popularity of low-carbohydrate diets caused the consumption of wheat flour to decrease rapidly before rebounding somewhat after 2005. Export demand for wheat fluctuates yearly, based largely on crop yields in the importing countries. Wheat production is subject to United States federal, state and local policies and regulations that materially affect operations. Governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies, incentives, acreage control, and import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products, can influence the planting of certain crops, the location and size of crop production, the volume and types of imports and exports, the availability and competitiveness of feedstocks as raw materials, and industry profitability. Additionally, wheat production is affected by laws and regulations relating to, but not limited to, the sourcing, transporting, storing and processing of agricultural raw materials as well as the transporting, storing and distributing of related agricultural products. U.S. wheat producers also must comply with various environmental laws and regulations, such as those regulating the use of certain pesticides, and local laws that regulate the production of genetically modified crops. In addition, international trade disputes can adversely affect agricultural commodity trade flows by limiting or disrupting trade between countries or regions. Seasonal fluctuations in the price of wheat may cause risk to an investor because of the possibility that Share prices will be depressed because of the wheat harvest cycle. In the United States, the market for winter wheat, the type of wheat upon which CBOT Wheat Futures Contracts are based, is at its lowest point, and wheat prices are lowest, shortly before and during the harvest (in the spring or early summer), due to the high supply of wheat in the market. Conversely, winter wheat prices are generally highest in the fall or early winter, when the wheat harvested that year has largely been sold and used. In the futures market, these seasonal fluctuations are typically reflected in contracts expiring in the relevant season (e.g., contracts expiring during the harvest season are typically priced lower than contracts expiring in the fall and early winter). Thus, seasonal fluctuations could result in an investor incurring losses upon the sale of Fund Shares, particularly if the investor needs to sell Shares when the Benchmark Component Futures Contracts are, in whole or part, Wheat Futures Contracts expiring in the spring. Position limits and daily price fluctuation limits set by the CFTC and the exchanges have the potential to cause tracking error, which could cause the price of Shares to substantially vary from the Benchmark and prevent you from being able to effectively use the Fund as a way to hedge against wheat-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in wheat. The CFTC and U.S. designated contract markets such as the CBOT have established position limits on the maximum net long or net short futures contracts in commodity interests that any person or group of persons under common trading control (other than as a hedge, which an investment by the Fund is not) may hold, own or control. For example, the current position limit for investments at any one time in CBOT Wheat Futures Contracts are 600 spot month contracts, 12,000 contracts expiring in any other single month and 12,000 contracts total for all months. Cleared Wheat Swaps (i.e., Wheat Calendar Swaps as offered on the CBOT) are subject to position limits that are currently measured separately from the limits on Wheat Futures Contracts. The position limits for Cleared Wheat Swaps are 12,000 contracts expiring in any other single month and 12,000 contracts total for all months. However, under rules proposed by the CFTC, Wheat Futures Contracts, Cleared Wheat Swaps, and over-the-counter wheat contracts will be subject to a single position limit. These position limits are fixed ceilings that the Fund would not be able to exceed without specific CFTC authorization. If the Fund encounters position limits, accountability levels, or price fluctuation limits for Wheat Futures Contracts and/or Cleared Wheat Swaps on the CBOT, it may then, if permitted under applicable regulatory requirements, purchase Other Wheat Interests and/or Wheat Futures Contracts listed on foreign exchanges. However, the Wheat Futures Contracts available on such foreign exchanges may have different underlying sizes, deliveries, and prices. In addition, the Wheat Futures Contracts available on these exchanges may be subject to their own position limits and accountability levels. In any case, notwithstanding the potential availability of these instruments in certain circumstances, position limits could force the Fund to limit the number of Creation Baskets that it sells. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved staff comments. 