D. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if any of the risks described below occur. As a result, the market price of our units and the American Depositary Shares (“ADSs”) could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. We may face additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, which may also impair our business. Risks Relating to Brazil The Brazilian government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Brazilian economy. This involvement, together with Brazil’s political and economic conditions, could adversely affect our financial condition and the market price of our securities. The Brazilian government frequently intervenes in the Brazilian economy and occasionally makes significant changes in policies and regulations. The Brazilian government’s actions to control inflation and other policies and regulations historically have involved, among other measures, increases in interest rates, changes in tax policies, price controls, currency fluctuations, taxation on investment flows, capital controls and limits on imports. Our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as the market price of our securities, may be adversely affected by changes in policies or regulations involving, among others: · interest rates; · exchange rates and controls and restrictions on the movement of capital out of Brazil (such as those briefly imposed in 1989 and early 1990); · currency fluctuations; · inflation; · liquidity of the domestic capital and lending markets; and · tax and regulatory policies. Although the Brazilian government has implemented sound economic policies over the past few years, uncertainty over whether the Brazilian government will implement changes in policy or regulation in the future may contribute to economic uncertainty in Brazil and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities markets and in the securities issued abroad by Brazilian issuers. These uncertainties and other developments in the Brazilian economy may adversely affect us and the market value of our securities. Government efforts to control inflation may hinder the growth of the Brazilian economy and could harm our business. Brazil has experienced extremely high rates of inflation in the past and has therefore implemented monetary policies that have resulted in one of the highest interest rates in the world. The Brazilian government’s measures to fight inflation, principally through the Central Bank, have had and may in the future have significant effects on the Brazilian economy and our business. Tight monetary policies with high interest rates and high compulsory deposit requirements may restrict Brazil’s growth and the availability of credit, reduce our loan volumes and increase our loan loss provisions. Conversely, more lenient government and Central Bank policies and interest rate decreases may trigger increases in inflation, and, consequently, growth volatility and the need for sudden and significant interest rate increases, which could negatively affect our interest rate spreads. From January 2000 to August 2005, the average interest rate in Brazil was 18.9%, with the minimum rate of 15.25% and maximum of 26.50% during this period. With the favorable macroeconomic environment and inflation stability, the Central Bank began a cycle of reducing interest rates starting in September 2005 from 19.5% to 8.75% in March 2010, when the interest rate reached a historical low. After this period, in order to balance domestic demand, the Central Bank began another period of adjustment in interest rates, which reached 11.75% in March 2011. 11 Table of Contents As a bank in Brazil, the vast majority of our income, expenses, assets and liabilities are directly tied to interest rates. Therefore, our results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by inflation, interest rate fluctuations and related government monetary policies, all of which may materially and adversely affect the growth of the Brazilian economy, our loan portfolios, our cost of funding and our income from credit operations. The increase in the base interest rates may adversely affect us by reducing the demand for our credit and investment products, increasing funding costs and risk of default by our customers. The decreases in basic interest rates may also have negative effects on our results by reducing interest income. We also use an asset and liability management strategy to protect the net interest income. Any changes in interest rates may negatively impact our earnings, due to the asset and liability management strategy. Exchange rate volatility may have a material adverse effect on the Brazilian economy and on our business. The Brazilian currency has during the past decades experienced frequent and substantial variations in relation to the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies. Between 2000 and 2002, the real depreciated significantly against the U.S. dollar, reaching a selling exchange rate of R$3.53 per U.S.$1.00 at the end of 2002. Between 2003 and mid-2008, the real appreciated significantly against the U.S. dollar due to the stabilization of the macroeconomic environment and a strong increase in foreign investment in Brazil, with the exchange rate reaching R$1.56 per U.S.$1.00 in August 2008. As a result of the crisis in the global financial markets since mid-2008, the real depreciated 31.9% against the U.S. dollar over the course of 2008 and reached R$2.34 per U.S.$1.00 on December 31, 2008. The real recovered in the second half of 2009, reaching R$1.74 per U.S.$1.00 on December 31, 2009, mainly due to the recovery of consumer confidence, export and foreign investments in the second half of the year. As of March 31, 2011, the exchange rate was R$1.62 per U.S.$1.00. Depreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar could create inflationary pressures in Brazil and cause increases in interest rates, which could negatively affect the growth of the Brazilian economy as a whole and harm our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, depreciation of the real could make our foreign currency-linked obligations and funding more expensive, negatively affect the market price of our securities portfolios and have similar consequences for our borrowers. Conversely, appreciation of the real relative to the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies could lead to a deterioration of the Brazilian foreign exchange currency accounts, as well as dampen export-driven growth. Depending on the circumstances, either depreciation or appreciation of the real could materially and adversely affect the growth of the Brazilian economy and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Developments and the perception of risk in other countries, especially in the United States, Spain and in emerging market countries, may adversely affect our access to financing and the market price of our securities. The market value of securities of Brazilian issuers is affected by economic and market conditions in other countries, including the United States, Spain (where Santander Spain, our controlling shareholder, is based) and other Latin American and emerging market countries. Although economic conditions in those countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Brazil, investors’ reactions to developments in these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Brazilian issuers. Crises in other emerging market countries may diminish investor interest in securities of Brazilian issuers, including our securities. This could adversely affect the market price of our securities, restrict our access to the capital markets and compromise our ability to finance our operations in the future on favorable terms, or at all. Risks Relating to the Brazilian Financial Services Industry We are exposed to the effects of the disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets and the economies in those countries where we do business, especially Brazil. The financial global markets have deteriorated sharply between 2007 and 2009. Major financial institutions, including some of the largest global commercial banks, investment banks and insurance companies have been experiencing significant difficulties, especially lack of liquidity and depreciation of financial assets. These difficulties have constricted the ability of a number of major global financial institutions to engage in further lending activity and have caused losses. In addition, defaults by, and doubts about the solvency of certain financial institutions and the financial services industry generally have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by, and bankruptcies of, other institutions. 12 Table of Contents We are exposed to the disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets because of their effects on the financial and economic environment in the countries in which we operate, especially Brazil, such as a slowdown in the economy, an increase in the unemployment rate, a decrease in the purchasing power of consumers and the lack of credit availability. We lend primarily to Brazilian borrowers, and these effects could materially and adversely affect our customers and increase our non-performing loans, resulting in increased risk associated with our lending activity and requiring us to make corresponding revisions to our risk management and loan loss reserve models. For example, in 2009, we experienced an increase in our nonperforming loans overdue above 90 days from 5.4% of total loans on December 31, 2008 to 7.2% on December 31, 2009. After this period, the levels of these operations showed a decelerating trend and reached 5.8%, at the end of December 2010. Continued or worsening disruption or volatility in the global financial markets could further increase negative effects on the financial and economic environment in Brazil and the other countries in which we operate, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Changes in regulation may negatively affect us. Brazilian financial markets are subject to extensive and continuous regulatory review by the Brazilian government, principally by the Central Bank and the CVM. We have no control over government regulations, which govern all aspects of our operations, including regulations that impose: · minimum capital requirements; · compulsory deposit and/or reserve requirements; · requirements for investments in fixed rate assets; · lending limits and other credit restrictions, including compulsory allocations; · limits and other restrictions on fees; · limits on the amount of interest banks can charge or the period for capitalizing interest; · accounting and statistical requirements; and · other requirements or limitations in the context of the global financial crisis. The regulatory structure governing Brazilian financial institutions is continuously evolving, and the Central Bank has been known to react actively and extensively to developments in our industry. For example, since early 2008, the Central Bank has repeatedly amended the rules related to compulsory deposit requirements in order to adjust the market liquidity in light of financial and economic conditions. The measures of the Central Bank and the amendment of existing laws and regulations, or the adoption of new laws or regulations (such as future implementation of Basel III rules related to regulatory capital) could adversely affect our ability to provide loans, make investments or render certain financial services. Our securities and derivative financial instruments are subject to market price and liquidity variations due to changes in economic conditions and may produce material losses. Financial instruments and securities represent a significant amount of our total assets. Any realized or unrealized future gains or losses from these investments or hedging strategies could have a significant impact on our income. These gains and losses, which we account for when we sell or mark-to-market investments in financial instruments, can vary considerably from one period to another. If, for example, we enter into derivatives transactions to protect ourselves against decreases in the value of the real or in interest rates and the real instead increases in value or interest rates increase, we may incur financial losses. We cannot forecast the amount of gains or losses in any future period, and the variations experienced from one period to another do not necessarily provide a meaningful forward-looking reference point. Gains or losses in our investment portfolio may create volatility in net revenue levels, and we may not earn a return on our consolidated investment portfolio, or on a part of the portfolio in the future. Any losses on our securities and derivative financial instruments could materially and adversely affect our operating income and financial condition. In addition, any decrease in the value of these securities and 13 Table of Contents derivatives portfolios may result in a decrease in our capital ratios, which could impair our ability to engage in lending activity at the levels we currently anticipate. The increasingly competitive environment and recent consolidations in the Brazilian financial services market may adversely affect our business prospects. The Brazilian financial markets, including the banking, insurance and asset management sectors, are highly competitive. We face significant competition in all of our main areas of operation from other Brazilian and international banks, both public and private, as well as insurance companies. In recent years, the presence of foreign banks and foreign insurance companies in Brazil has increased, as well as competition in the sectors of banking and insurance. Furthermore, the consolidation of the Brazilian financial sector, with the merger of large banks, especially in 2008 and 2009, and the privatization of public banks have also increased competition in the Brazilian market for banking and financial services more competitive. The compression of credit spreads by some of our competitors, following the public banks which aggressively increased their volume of loans with spreads lower than those charged by private banks in 2009, may affect us negatively and reduce our market share. The acquisition of an insurance company or a bank by one of our competitors would likely increase such competitor’s market share and customer base, and, as a result, we may face heightened competition. An increase in competition may negatively affect our business results and prospects by, among other things: · limiting our ability to increase our customer base and expand our operations; · reducing our profit margins on the banking, insurance, leasing and other services and products we offer; and · increasing competition for investment opportunities. We may experience increases in our level of past due loans as our loan portfolio matures. Our loan portfolio has grown substantially in recent years. Any corresponding rise in our level of past due loans may lag behind the rate of loan growth. Rapid loan growth may also reduce our ratio of past due loans to total loans until growth slows or the portfolio becomes more seasoned. This may result in increases in our loan loss provisions, charge-offs and the ratio of past due loans to total loans. In addition, as a result of the increase in our loan portfolio and the lag in any corresponding rise in our level of past due loans, our historic loan loss experience may not be indicative of our future loan loss experience. Our market, credit and operational risk management policies, procedures and methods may not be fully effective in mitigating our exposure to all risks, including unidentified or unanticipated risks. Our market and credit risk management policies, procedures and methods, including our use of value at risk, or “VaR”, and other statistical modeling tools, may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all economic market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that we fail to identify or anticipate. Some of our qualitative tools and metrics for managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. We apply statistical and other tools to these observations to arrive at quantifications of our risk exposures. These qualitative tools and metrics may fail to predict future risk exposures. These risk exposures could, for example, arise from factors we did not anticipate or correctly evaluate in our statistical models. This would limit our ability to manage our risks. Our losses thus could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. In addition, our quantified modeling does not take all risks into account. Our more qualitative approach to managing those risks could prove insufficient, exposing us to material unanticipated losses. If existing or potential customers believe our risk management is inadequate, they could take their business elsewhere. This could harm our reputation as well as negatively affect our revenues and profits. In addition, our businesses depend on the ability to process a large number of transactions efficiently and accurately. Losses can result from inadequate personnel, inadequate or failed internal control processes and systems, information systems failures or from external events that interrupt normal business operations. We also face the risk that the design of our controls and procedures for mitigating operational risk proves to be inadequate or is circumvented. We have suffered losses from operational risk in the past, and there can be no assurance that we will not suffer material losses from operational risk in the future. 14 Table of Contents We may fail to recognize the contemplated benefits of the acquisition of Banco Real. The value of the units and ADSs could be adversely affected to the extent we fail to realize the benefits we hope to achieve from the integration of Santander Brasil and Banco Real, in particular, cost savings and revenue generation arising from the integration of the two banks’ operations. We may fail to realize these projected cost savings and revenue generation in the time frame we anticipate or at all due to a variety of factors, including our inability to carry out headcount reductions, the implementation of our firm culture and the integration of our back office operations. It is possible that the acquisition could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each bank’s ongoing business and inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies and the dilution of brand recognition of the Santander and Banco Real brands. Moreover, the success of the acquisition will at least in part be subject to a number of political, economic and other factors that are beyond our control. If our reserves for future insurance policyholder benefits and claims are inadequate, we may be required to increase our reserves, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our insurance companies establish and carry reserves to pay future insurance policyholder benefits and claims. Our reserves represent our best estimates of liabilities, and they are actuarial or statistical estimates based on models that include many assumptions and projections which are inherently uncertain and involve the exercise of significant judgment, including as to the levels of and/or timing of receipt or payment of premiums, benefits, claims, expenses, interest credits, investment results, retirement, mortality, and persistency. We cannot determine with 100% precision the ultimate amounts that we will pay for, or the timing of payment of, actual benefits, claims and expenses or whether the assets supporting our insurance policy liabilities, together with future premiums, will be sufficient for payment of benefits and claims. If we conclude that our reserves, together with future premiums and financial surplus, are insufficient to cover future insurance policy benefits and claims, we would be required to increase our insurance reserves and incur income statement charges for the period in which we make the determination, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The profitability of our insurance operations may decline if mortality rates, or persistency rates differ significantly from our pricing expectations. We set prices for many of our insurance and annuity products based upon expected claims and payment patterns, using assumptions for mortality rates, or likelihood of death, and persistency rates. In addition to the potential effect of natural or man-made disasters, significant changes in mortality or persistency could emerge gradually over time, due to changes in the natural environment, the health habits of the insured population, treatment patterns for disease or disability, or other factors. Pricing of our insurance and deferred annuity products is also based in part upon expected persistency of these products, which is the probability that a policy or contract will remain in force from one period to the next. Results may also vary based on differences between actual and expected premium deposits and withdrawals for these products. Strong deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our insurance products. Although some of our insurance products permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits during the life of the policy or contract, the adjustments permitted under the terms of the policies or contracts may not be sufficient to maintain profitability. Some of our insurance products do not permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits or limit those adjustments during the life of the policy or contract. Our controlling shareholder has a great deal of influence over our business. Santander Spain, our controlling shareholder, currently owns, indirectly, approximately 81.4% of our total capital. Due to its share ownership, our controlling shareholder has the power to control us and our subsidiaries, including the power to: · elect a majority of our directors and appoint our executive officers, set our management policies and exercise overall control over our company and subsidiaries; · agree to sell or otherwise transfer its controlling stake in our company; and · determine the outcome of substantially all actions requiring shareholder approval, including transactions with related parties, corporate reorganizations, acquisitions and dispositions of assets, and dividends. 15 Table of Contents The interests of Santander Spain may differ from our interests or those of our other shareholders, and the concentration of control in Santander Spain will limit other shareholders’ ability to influence corporate matters. As a result, we may take actions that our other shareholders do not view as beneficial. Risks Relating to Our Units and ADSs Cancellation of units may have a material and adverse effect on the market for the units and on the value of the units. Holders of units may present these units or some of these units for cancellation in Brazil in exchange for the common shares and preferred shares underlying these units. If unit holders present a significant number of units for cancellation in exchange for the underlying common shares and preferred shares, the liquidity and price of the units may be materially and adversely affected. The relative volatility and limited liquidity of the Brazilian securities markets may negatively affect the liquidity and market prices of the units and the ADSs. Although the Brazilian equity market is the largest in Latin America in terms of capitalization, it is smaller and less liquid than the major U.S. and European securities markets. The BM&FBOVESPA is significantly less liquid than the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) or other major exchanges in the world. As of December 31, 2010, the aggregate market capitalization of the BM&FBOVESPA was equivalent to approximately R$2,569 billion (U.S.$1,542 billion) and the top ten stocks in terms of trading volume accounted for approximately 55.3% of all shares traded on BM&FBOVESPA in the year ended December 31, 2010. In contrast, as of December 31, 2010, the aggregate market capitalization of the NYSE was approximately U.S.$13.4 trillion. Although any of the outstanding shares of a listed company may trade on the BM&FBOVESPA, in most cases fewer than half of the listed shares are actually available for trading by the public, the remainder being held by small groups of controlling persons, government entities or a principal shareholder. The relative volatility and illiquidity of the Brazilian securities markets may substantially limit your ability to sell the units or ADSs at the time and price you desire and, as a result, could negatively impact the market price of these securities. Actual or anticipated sales of a substantial number of units or our common shares or preferred shares in the future could decrease the market prices of the ADSs. Sales of a substantial number of our units or our common shares or preferred shares in the future, or the anticipation of such sales, could negatively affect the market prices of our units and ADSs. Currently, Santander Spain owns approximately 81.4% of our total capital. In connection with our listing on the BM&FBOVESPA, prior to October 7, 2012 (extendable under certain circumstances to October 7, 2014) Santander Brasil must have a public float that represents at least 25 percent of our total capital. If, in the future, substantial sales of units or common shares or preferred shares are made by existing or future holders, the market prices of the ADSs may decrease significantly. As a result, holders of ADSs may not be able to sell their ADSs at or above the price they paid for them. The economic value of your investment may be diluted. We may, from time to time, need additional funds and, in the event that public or private financing is unavailable or if our shareholders decide, we may issue additional units or shares. Any additional funds obtained by such a capital increase may dilute your interest in our company. Delisting of our shares from Level 2 of BM&FBOVESPA may negatively affect the price of our ADSs and units. Companies listed on Level 2 of BM&FBOVESPA are required to have a public float of at least 25% of their outstanding shares. Currently, our public float is approximately 18.6% of our outstanding capital. We have a grace period of three years from the date of listing our shares on Level 2 of BM&FBOVESPA, extendable for an additional two years upon presentation of a plan to BM&FBOVESPA to comply with the minimum public float requirement. If we do not meet the minimum public float requirement, we may be subject to fines and eventually be delisted from Level 2 of BM&FBOVESPA and be traded at the regular level of BM&FBOVESPA. Level 2 regulations are also subject to change, and we may not be able to comply with such changes. Although such delisting could result in the obligation of the controlling shareholder to carry out a mandatory tender offer for the shares of the minority shareholders, such delisting may result in a decrease of the price of our shares, units and ADSs. 16 Table of Contents Holders of our units and our ADSs may not receive any dividends or interest on shareholders’ equity. According to our by-laws, we must generally pay our shareholders at least 25% of our annual net income as dividends or interest on shareholders’ equity, as calculated and adjusted under the Brazilian corporation law method, which may differ significantly from our net income as calculated under IFRS. This adjusted net income may be capitalized, used to absorb losses or otherwise retained as allowed under the Brazilian corporation law method and may not be available to be paid as dividends or interest on shareholders’ equity. Additionally, the Brazilian corporation law allows a publicly traded company like ours to suspend the mandatory distribution of dividends in any particular year if our board of directors informs our shareholders that such distributions would be inadvisable in view of our financial condition or cash availability. See “Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Payment of Dividends and Interest Attributable to Shareholders’ Equity—Dividends”. Holders of ADSs may find it difficult to exercise voting rights at our shareholders’ meetings. Holders of ADSs will not be direct shareholders of our company and will be unable to enforce directly the rights of shareholders under our by-laws and the Brazilian corporation law. Holders of ADSs may exercise voting rights with respect to the units represented by ADSs only in accordance with the deposit agreement governing the ADSs. Holders of ADSs will face practical limitations in exercising their voting rights because of the additional steps involved in our communications with ADS holders. For example, we are required to publish a notice of our shareholders’ meetings in specified newspapers in Brazil. Holders of our units will be able to exercise their voting rights by attending a shareholders’ meeting in person or voting by proxy. By contrast, holders of ADSs will receive notice of a shareholders’ meeting by mail from the ADR depositary following our notice to the depositary requesting the depository to do so. To exercise their voting rights, holders of ADSs must instruct the ADR depositary on a timely basis on how they wish to vote. This voting process necessarily will take longer for holders of ADSs than for holders of our units or shares. If the ADR depositary fails to receive timely voting instructions for all or part of the ADSs, the depositary will assume that the holders of those ADSs are instructing it to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us to vote their ADSs, except in limited circumstances. Holders of ADSs also may not receive the voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote the units underlying their ADSs. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions of the holders of ADSs or for the manner of carrying out those voting instructions. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may not be able to exercise voting rights, and they will have little, if any, recourse if the units underlying their ADSs are not voted as requested. Holders of ADSs could be subject to Brazilian income tax on capital gains from sales of ADSs. Law No. 10,833 of December 29, 2003 provides that the disposition of assets located in Brazil by a non-resident to either a Brazilian resident or a non-resident is subject to taxation in Brazil, regardless of whether the disposition occurs outside or within Brazil. This provision results in the imposition of income tax on the gains arising from a disposition of our units by a non-resident of Brazil to another non-resident of Brazil. It is unclear whether ADSs representing our units, which are issued by the ADR depositary outside Brazil, will be deemed to be “property located in Brazil” for purposes of this law. There is no judicial guidance as to the application of Law No. 10,833 of December 29, 2003 and, accordingly, we are unable to predict whether Brazilian courts may decide that it applies to dispositions of our ADSs between non-residents of Brazil. However, in the event that the disposition of assets is interpreted to include a disposition of our ADSs, this tax law would accordingly impose withholding taxes on the disposition of our ADSs by a non-resident of Brazil to another non-resident of Brazil. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Brazilian Tax Considerations”. Any gain or loss recognized by a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations for U.S. Holders”) will generally be treated as U.S. source gain or loss. A U.S. Holder would not be able to use the foreign tax credit arising from any Brazilian tax imposed on the disposition of our units, unless such credit can be applied (subject to applicable limitations) against tax due on the other income treated as derived from foreign sources. Judgments of Brazilian courts with respect to our units or ADSs will be payable only in reais. If proceedings are brought in the courts of Brazil seeking to enforce our obligations in respect of the units or ADSs, we will not be required to discharge our obligations in a currency other than reais. Under Brazilian exchange 17 Table of Contents control limitations and according to Brazilian laws, an obligation in Brazil to pay amounts denominated in a currency other than reais may be satisfied in Brazilian currency only at the exchange rate, as determined by the Central Bank or competent court, in effect on the date the judgment is obtained, and such amounts are then adjusted to reflect exchange rate variations through the effective payment date. The then prevailing exchange may not afford non-Brazilian investors with full compensation for any claim arising out of or related to our obligations under the units or ADSs. Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights with respect to our units underlying the ADSs. Holders of ADSs will be unable to exercise the preemptive rights relating to our units underlying ADSs unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the “Securities Act”, is effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to the shares relating to these preemptive rights or to take any other action to make preemptive rights available to holders of units or ADSs. We may decide, in our discretion, not to file any such registration statement. If we do not file a registration statement or if we and the American Depositary Receipt (“ADR”) depository decide not to make preemptive rights available to holders of units or ADSs, those holders may receive only the net proceeds from the sale of their preemptive rights by the depositary, or if they are not sold, their preemptive rights will be allowed to lapse. UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information presented below is derived from the historical audited consolidated financial statements of Santander Brasil for the year ended December 31, 2008 and the historical audited combined financial statements of Banco Real for the period from January 1 to August 29, 2008. On July 24, 2008, Santander Spain acquired the indirect majority control of the ABN AMRO Real Group in Brazil. On August 29, 2008, as discussed in notes 3 and 27 to our consolidated financial statements, Banco Real became our wholly-owned subsidiary pursuant to a share exchange transaction (incorporação de ações) approved by the shareholders of Santander Brasil and Banco Real See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—A. Operating Results—Acquisition of Banco Real.” The historical financial statements used to consolidate Banco Real beginning on August 30, 2008 reflect purchase accounting adjustments recorded on the date that Santander Spain acquired control of Banco Real, since as from that date Banco Real came under common control with Santander Brasil. The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information is based upon the historical audited consolidated financial statements and combined financial statements mentioned above, adjusted to give effect to the acquisition of Banco Real, its contribution to Santander Brasil and the share exchange transaction with minority shareholders (incorporação de ações) as if they had occurred on January 1, 2008. The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information was prepared based on accounting practices under IFRS. The pro forma assumptions and adjustments are described in the accompanying notes presented below. The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information is provided for illustrative purposes only and does not purport to represent what the actual consolidated results of operations or the consolidated financial position of Santander Brasil would have been had the acquisition, capital contribution of Banco Real to us and the share exchange transaction with minority shareholders (incorporação de ações), occurred on the date assumed, nor is it necessarily indicative of the consolidated company’s future results of operations or financial position. The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information does not include the anticipated realization of cost savings from any operating efficiencies, synergies or restructurings resulting from the integration of Banco Real and does not contemplate the liabilities that may be incurred in connection with the business combination and any related restructurings. This unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes presented below, our historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes and combined financial statements of Banco Real and accompanying notes. You should not rely on the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information as an indication of either (1) the consolidated results of operations or financial position that would have been achieved if the acquisition of Banco Real had taken place on the date assumed; or (2) our consolidated results of operations or financial position of Santander Brasil after the completion of such transaction. 18 Table of Contents Pro Forma Income Statement Data For the Year Ended December 31, 2008 Santander Brasil Consolidated Historical Financial Data Banco Real Combined Historical Financial Data Pro Forma Adjustments Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Data For the year ended December 31, 2008 For the period from January 1 to August 29, 2008 For the year ended December 31, 2008 For the year ended December 31, 2008 (in millions of R$, except as otherwise indicated) Interest and similar income 23,768 14,007 327 4(i) 38,102 Interest expense and similar charges (12,330 ) (6,552 ) 11 4(ii) (18,872 ) Net interest income 11,438 7,455 338 19,230 Income from equity instruments 37 2 — 39 Income from companies accounted for by the equity method 112 193 — 305 Fee and commission income 4,809 2,040 — 6,849 Fee and commission expense (555 ) (428 ) — (983 ) Gains/losses on financial assets and liabilities (net) (1,287 ) 798 4 (485 ) Exchange differences (net) 1,476 (215 ) — 1,261 Other operating income (expenses) (59 ) (17 ) 2 (74 ) Total income 15,971 9,828 344 26,143 Administrative expenses (7,185 ) (4,347 ) — (11,532 ) Personnel expenses (3,548 ) (2,126 ) — (5,674 ) Other general administrative expenses (3,637 ) (2,221 ) — (5,858 ) Depreciation and amortization (846 ) (288 ) (102 ) 4(iii) (1,236 ) Provisions (net) (1,230 ) (472 ) — (1,702 ) Impairment losses on financial assets (net) (4,100 ) (2,470 ) — (6,570 ) Impairment losses on other assets (net) (77 ) (8 ) — (85 ) Gains/losses on disposal of assets not classified as non-current assets 7 25 — 32 Gains/losses on disposal of non-current assets held for sale 9 13 — 22 Profit before tax 2,549 2,281 242 5,072 Income tax (170 ) (907 ) (82 ) 4(iv) (1,159 ) Profit for the year 2,379 1,374 160 3,913 Earnings per shares Basic and diluted earnings per 1,000 share (reais) Common shares 11.59 11.65 Preferred shares 12.75 12.81 Basic and diluted earnings per 1,000 share (U.S. dollars)(1) Common shares 6.96 6.99 Preferred shares 7.65 7.69 Weighted average shares outstanding (in thousands) – basic and diluted Common shares 104,926,194 171,800,386 Preferred shares 91,168,064 149,283,961 (1) Translated for convenience only using the selling rate as reported by the Central Bank at December 31, 2010 for reais into U.S. dollars of R$1.6662 to U.S.$1.00. See the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information. 19 Table of Contents Notes to the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information 1. Basis of Presentation The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information presented above is derived from the historical audited consolidated financial statements of Santander Brasil for the year ended December 31, 2008 and the historical audited combined financial statements of Banco Real for the period from January 1 to August 29, 2008. 2. The Acquisition of Banco Real On July 24, 2008, Santander Spain acquired indirect majority control of the ABN AMRO Real Group in Brazil. On August 29, 2008, as discussed in notes 3 and 27 to our consolidated financial statements, Banco Real became our wholly-owned subsidiary pursuant to a share exchange transaction (incorporação de ações) approved by the shareholders of Santander Brasil and Banco Real was consolidated in our financial statements as from August 30, 2008. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—A. Operating Results—Acquisition of Banco Real.” The historical financial statements used to consolidate Banco Real on August 30, 2008 reflect purchase accounting adjustments recorded on the date that Santander Spain acquired control of Banco Real since as from that date, Banco Real came under common control with Santander Brasil. 3. Pro Forma Assumptions and Adjustments The following assumptions and related pro forma adjustments give effect to our incorporation of Banco Real as if the acquisition of Banco Real by Santander Spain, its capital contribution of Banco Real to us and the share exchange transaction with minority shareholders (incorporação de ações) had occurred on January 1, 2008 for purposes of the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information. · The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information is provided for illustrative purposes only and does not purport to represent what the actual consolidated results of operations or the consolidated financial position of Santander Brasil would have been had the acquisition of Banco Real occurred on the respective dates assumed, nor is it necessarily indicative of the combined company’s future consolidated results of operations or financial position. · Expected future cash cost savings, if any, are not recognized in this unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information. · The pro forma adjustments include purchase price accounting adjustments to reflect the acquisition of Banco Real by Santander Spain, as if Santander Spain had acquired control of Banco Real on January 1, 2008. The purchase accounting was recorded using the acquisition method in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standard No. 3, “Business Combinations”. Additionally, liabilities may be incurred in connection with any ultimate restructuring activities. These additional liabilities and costs have not been contemplated in the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information because information necessary to reasonably estimate such costs and to formulate detailed restructuring plans depends on the conclusion of assessments and studies which we are still preparing as of the date of this annual report. 20 Table of Contents The pro forma purchase price allocation adjustments are estimated based on the following purchase price allocation: Book value Fair value(1) Adjustment (in thousands of R$) Net assets acquired Assets 132,301,795 130,930,255 (1,371,540 ) Of which: Cash and balances with central banks 12,147,982 12,147,982 - Debt instruments 21,758,968 21,728,385 (30,583 ) Loans and advances to customers 69,669,710 68,039,392 (1,630,318 ) Tangible assets 1,072,896 1,344,375 271,479 Liabilities (119,436,124 ) (120,826,655 ) (1,390,531 ) Of which: Deposits from credit institutions (20,946,768 ) (20,932,165 ) 14,603 Customer deposits (75,372,552 ) (75,419,151 ) (46,599 ) Subordinated liabilities (3,440,670 ) (3,491,143 ) (50,473 ) Other financial liabilities (5,974,858 ) (5,852,833 ) 122,025 Provisions(2) (3,536,049 ) (4,968,623 ) (1,432,574 ) Net assets acquired 12,865,671 10,103,600 (2,762,071 ) Intangible assets(3) 1,229,716 Fair value of the assets 11,333,316 Total consideration(4) 38,946,426 Satisfied by: Shares 38,920,753 Cash 25,673 Goodwill 27,613,110 (1) The fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired were determined based on appraisals for the tangible assets, consideration of advice provided by legal counsel for contingent liabilities in Provisions, and discounted cash flow analysis for all other assets and liabilities, taking into consideration the expected future economic benefits of the intangible assets. (2) Includes an adjustment of R$124.7 million booked in the six months ended June 30, 2009 with respect to a revision in the fair value of provisions, as permitted under IFRS 3. (3) Amount relates to customer list with an estimated useful life of 10 years. (4) Total consideration is based on amounts paid by the Santander Group for the acquisition of Banco Real. 4. Pro forma adjustments The purpose of the pro forma adjustments is to give the effect to the acquisition of Banco Real and the share exchange transaction (incorporação de ações) as if they had occurred on January 1, 2008. The pro forma adjustments for the year ended December 31, 2008 consider the period from January 1, 2008 to August 29, 2008, as the results for the remaining period of 2008 are already incorporated in the Bank’s historical financial data. (i) This pro forma adjustment relates to the unwinding of the fair value adjustments to debt instruments and loans and advances to customers, presented in the purchase price allocation in note 3 to the pro forma financial information, which were calculated separately for each individual contract. This results in an adjustment to the yield curve of the assets that were accounted for at amortized cost. The fair values of these contracts were below or above their book values depending on whether market rates of interest were above or below the contractual rates on the date of the acquisition. The unwinding of the difference between amortized cost and fair value is calculated based on the contractual maturities of each of the related financial instruments, which vary from 2008 to 2015. 21 Table of Contents (ii) This pro forma adjustment relates to the amortization of the fair value adjustment to financial liabilities, presented in the purchase price allocation in note 3 to the pro forma financial information, which was calculated separately for each individual contract. This results in an adjustment to the yield curve of the financial liabilities that were accounted for at amortized cost. The fair values of these contracts were below or above their book values depending on whether market rates of interest were above or below the contractual rates on the date of the acquisition. The unwinding of the difference between amortized cost and fair value is based on the contractual maturities of each of the related financial instruments, which vary from 2008 to 2015. (iii) This pro forma adjustment relates to the amortization of the fair value adjustment to tangible assets and the amortization of the identifiable and measurable intangible assets recognized in the purchase price allocation, which are presented in note 3 to the pro forma financial information, using the estimated useful lives of such assets. This adjustment principally relates to the amortization of the customer list recognized in connection with the purchase price allocation which has an estimated useful life of 10 years and the amortization of the tangible assets (buildings for own use), which have an estimated average useful life of 25 years. (iv) This pro forma adjustment reflects the recognition of deferred taxes recognized in the purchase price allocation due to the realization of the amounts in which fair value differed from cost for certain assets and liabilities as shown in the table above. Such realization of deferred taxes is calculated on the pro forma adjustments explained above, based on a 34.0% tax rate. 