ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Readers should carefully consider the following risks prior to making an investment decision regarding OBA Financial Services, Inc. The following risk factors may cause future earnings to be lower or the financial condition less favorable than Management expects. In addition, other risks of which Management is not currently aware or which Management does not believe to be material, may cause earnings to be lower or may cause the financial condition to be worse than expected. Please consider all information contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as, the documents incorporated by reference. The Company intends to continue its emphasis on commercial real estate and commercial business loan originations. Credit risk will increase and a continued downturn in the local real estate market or the local or national economy could adversely affect earnings. The Company intends to continue its recent emphasis on originating commercial real estate and commercial business loans. Commercial real estate and commercial business loans generally have more risk than residential mortgage loans that the Bank originates. Because the repayment of commercial real estate and commercial business loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower’s properties or related businesses, repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the local real estate market or economy. Commercial real estate and commercial business loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of related borrowers. A downturn in the real estate market or the local economy could adversely affect the value of properties securing the loan or the revenues from the borrower’s business, thereby increasing the risk of nonperforming loans. As the Company’s commercial real estate and commercial business loan portfolios increase, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans may also increase. This increasing risk has contributed to the Company’s need to increase the allowance for loan losses through charges to earnings. Future increases in commercial real estate loans and commercial loans may require additional increases in the Company’s allowance for loan losses through charges to earnings. The Company has begun to focus on construction loan originations. Credit risk will increase and a continued downturn in the local real estate market and economy could adversely affect earnings. The Company began to focus on originating commercial and residential construction loans. Construction loans generally have more risk than residential mortgage loans that the Bank originates. The repayment of construction loans depends on the successful management and completion of the construction project and the ability of the borrower to acquire permanent financing or sell the property. The Company typically originates construction loans that, when the project is complete, the Company will extend permanent financing to the 18 Table of Contents borrower and/or the property is considered owner occupied. The repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the local real estate market or economy. As the Company’s construction loan portfolio increases, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans may also increase. This increasing risk has contributed to the Company’s need to increase the allowance for loan losses through charges to earnings. Future increases in construction loans may require additional increases in the Company’s allowance for loan losses through charges to earnings. The Company continues to originate and retain in its portfolio some residential mortgage loans. A continued downturn in the local real estate market and economy could adversely affect earnings. The Company has continued its origination and retention of certain residential mortgage loans. Although the local real estate market and economy have performed better than many other markets, a downturn could cause higher unemployment, more delinquencies, and could adversely affect the value of properties securing loans. In addition, the real estate market may take longer to recover or not recover to previous levels. These risks increase the probability of an adverse impact on the Company’s financial results as fewer borrowers would be eligible to borrow and property values could be below necessary levels required for adequate coverage on the requested loan. A portion of the commercial business and construction loan portfolios are unseasoned. The Company has grown its commercial business and construction loan portfolios over the past several years. The future performance of this portion of the loan portfolio is difficult to assess due to the general unseasoned nature of the portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above the Company’s historical experience, which could adversely affect future performance. If the Company’s allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, earnings could be adversely affected. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of the Company’s borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of the Company’s loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, Management reviews the loans and the loss and delinquency experience, and evaluates economic conditions. If the assumptions are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in the Company’s loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance through charges to earnings. Material additions to the allowance could materially decrease the Company’s net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require the Company to increase the allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s branch network expansion strategy may negatively affect the Company’s financial performance. The Company intends to expand its branch network over the next five years. This strategy may not generate earnings, or may not generate earnings within a reasonable period of time. Numerous factors contribute to the performance of a new branch, such as a suitable location, qualified personnel, and an effective marketing strategy. Additionally, a new branch takes time to originate sufficient loans and generate sufficient deposits to produce enough income to offset expenses, some of which, like salaries and occupancy expense, are relatively fixed costs. 19 Table of Contents Concentration of loans in the Company’s primary market area, which has recently experienced an economic downturn, may increase risk. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in Montgomery, Howard, and Anne Arundel Counties, Maryland as most of the Company’s loans are to customers in these markets. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in these markets have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans as well as the Company’s ability to originate new loans. As such, a decline in real estate values in these markets would lower the value of the collateral securing loans on properties in these markets. In addition, a continued weakening in general economic conditions, such as; inflation, recession, unemployment, or other factors beyond the Company’s control could negatively affect financial results. A continuation or worsening of economic conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although the U.S. economy has emerged from the severe recession that occurred in 2008 and 2009, economic growth has been slow and uneven, and unemployment levels remain high. Recovery by many businesses has been impaired by lower consumer spending. A return to prolonged deteriorating economic conditions could significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further declines in sales volumes and continued elevated unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies, increases in our nonperforming and criticized classified assets and a decline in demand for our products and services. These events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s 2011 Equity Incentive Plan will increase expenses and reduce income. In May 2011, the Company’s stockholders approved the OBA Financial Services, Inc. 2011 Equity Incentive Plan. Stockholders approved the issuance of a total of 648,025 shares under the plan. Grants under the plan were issued on July 21, 2011 as described in the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K as filed with the SEC on May 17, 2011. Subsequent periods included expenses for the 2011 equity incentive plan which reduced income. The implementation of the 2011 Equity Incentive Plan may dilute stockholders’ ownership interest. The Company’s 2011 Equity Incentive Plan was funded from the issuance of authorized but unissued shares of common stock. The ability to repurchase shares of common stock to fund the plan will be subject to many factors, including, but not limited to, applicable regulatory restrictions on stock repurchases, the availability of stock in the market, the trading price of the stock, alternative uses for the capital, and the Company’s capital levels and financial performance. Although the Company’s current intention is to fund the plan with stock repurchases, the Company may not be able to conduct such repurchases. If the Company does not repurchase shares of common stock to fund the plan, then stockholders would experience a reduction in their ownership interest, which would total 12.3% in the event newly issued shares are used to fund stock options or awards of shares of common stock under the plan. If the Company’s investment in the common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta is classified as other-than-temporarily impaired, the Company’s earnings and stockholders’ equity could decrease. The Company owns stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta, which is part of the Federal Home Loan Bank system. The FHLB common stock is held to qualify for membership in the FHLB and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLB’s advance programs. There is no market for FHLB common stock. Although the FHLB is not reporting current operating difficulties, it is possible that the capital of the Federal Home Loan Bank system, including the FHLB, could be substantially diminished. This could occur with respect to an individual Federal Home Loan Bank due to the requirement that each Federal Home Loan Bank is 20 Table of Contents jointly and severally liable along with the other Federal Home Loan Banks for the consolidated obligations issued through the Office of Finance, a joint office of the Federal Home Loan Banks, or due to the merger of a Federal Home Loan Bank experiencing operating difficulties into a stronger Federal Home Loan Bank. Consequently, there continues to be a risk that the Company’s investment in FHLB common stock could be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause the Company’s earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the impairment charge. Strong competition within the Company’s market areas may limit the Company’s growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In the Company’s market areas, the Company competes with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that the Company does not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively, which could affect the Company’s ability to grow and remain profitable on a long-term basis. The Company’s profitability depends upon the continued ability to successfully compete in the Company’s market areas. If interest rates paid on deposits increase or interest rates charged on loans decrease, net interest margin and profitability could be adversely affected. For additional information see “Item 1. Business—Competition.” Future changes in interest rates could reduce profits. The Company’s ability to make a profit largely depends on net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: • the interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and • the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Net interest income is affected by changes in market interest rates because different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to market interest rate changes. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on assets, such as loans and investments, may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on liabilities, such as deposits, causing a reduction in net interest income. In a period of declining interest rates, the interest income earned on assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest paid on liabilities; causing a reduction in net interest income. Changes in market interest rates create reinvestment or prepayment risk, which is the risk that the Bank receives an amount of cashflows inconsistent with original estimates. In a declining rate environment, the risk is that Management may not be able to reinvest additional prepayments at interest rates that are comparable to the interest rates earned on the prepaid loans or securities. In an increasing rate environment, loan demand may decrease, the repayment of adjustable-rate loans may be more difficult for borrowers, and a decrease in prepayments may result in a lost opportunity to reinvest those additional cash flows at higher yields. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” Government responses to economic conditions may adversely affect operations, financial condition and earnings. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has changed the bank regulatory framework, created an independent consumer protection bureau that has assumed the consumer protection responsibilities of the various federal banking agencies, and established more stringent capital standards for 21 Table of Contents banks and bank holding companies. Bank regulatory agencies also have been responding aggressively to concerns and adverse trends identified in examinations. Ongoing uncertainty and adverse developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the effect of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulatory actions, may adversely affect the Company’s operations by restricting its business activities, including the ability to originate or sell loans, modify loan terms, or foreclose on property securing loans. These risks could affect the performance and value of the Bank’s loan and investment securities portfolios, which also would negatively affect financial performance. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations are likely to have a significant effect on the financial services industry, which are likely to increase operating costs and reduce profitability. Regulatory or legislative changes could make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive, and could cause changes to or limits on some products and services, or the way business is operated. If the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System increases the federal funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering the Bank’s operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on the Bank’s borrowers, especially business borrowers, and the values of underlying collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect the Bank’s financial performance. The Company is subject to extensive regulatory oversight. The Company is subject to extensive regulation and supervision. Regulators have intensified their focus on bank lending criteria and controls, and on the USA PATRIOT Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. There also is increased scrutiny of compliance practices generally and particularly with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. The Company’s failure to comply with these and other regulatory requirements could lead to, among other remedies, administrative enforcement actions and legal proceedings. Moreover, as part of their examination authority, the banking regulators assign numerical ratings to banks and savings institutions relating to capital, asset quality, management, liquidity, earnings and other factors. These ratings are inherently subjective and the receipt of a less than satisfactory rating in one or more categories may result in enforcement action by the banking regulators against a financial institution. A less than satisfactory rating may also prevent a financial institution, such as the Bank or its holding company, from obtaining necessary regulatory approvals to access the capital markets, pay dividends, acquire other financial institutions or establish new branches. Proposed and final regulations could restrict the Company’s ability to originate and sell loans. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has issued a rule, effective January 10, 2014, designed to clarify for lenders how they can avoid legal liability under the Dodd-Frank Act, which would otherwise hold lenders accountable for ensuring a borrower’s ability to repay a mortgage. Loans that meet this “qualified mortgage” definition will be presumed to have complied with the new ability-to-repay standard. Under the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s rule, a “qualified mortgage” loan must not contain certain specified features, including: • excessive upfront points and fees (those exceeding 3% of the total loan amount, less “bona fide discount points” for prime loans); • interest-only payments; • negative-amortization; and • terms of longer than 30 years. The final rule also established general underwriting criteria for qualified mortgages, including that the consumer has a total (or “back end”) debt-to-income ratio that is less than or equal to 43%. Lenders must also 22 Table of Contents verify and document the income and financial resources relied upon to qualify the borrower on the loan and underwrite the loan based on a fully amortizing payment schedule and maximum interest rate during the first five years, taking into account all applicable taxes, insurance and assessments. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s rule on qualified mortgages could limit the Company’s ability or desire to make certain types of loans or loans to certain borrowers, or could make it more costly/and or time consuming to make these loans, which could limit the Company’s growth or profitability. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the regulatory agencies to issue regulations that require securitizers of loans to retain “not less than 5% of the credit risk for any asset that is not a qualified residential mortgage.” The regulatory agencies initially issued a proposed rule to implement this requirement in April 2011. A revised proposed rule was issued in August 2013. The Dodd-Frank Act provides that the definition of “qualified residential mortgage” can be no broader than the definition of “qualified mortgage” issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau for purposes of its regulations. Although the final rule with respect to the retention of credit risk has not yet been issued, the final rule could have a significant effect on the secondary market for loans and the types of loans we originate, and restrict the Company’s ability to make loans. The corporate governance provisions in the Company’s articles of incorporation and bylaws, the Bank’s Charter, and the corporate governance provisions under Maryland law, may prevent or impede the holders of the Company’s common stock from obtaining representation on the Company’s Board of Directors and may impede takeovers of the company that the board might conclude are not in the best interest of the Company or its stockholders. Provisions in the Company’s articles of incorporation and bylaws may prevent or impede holders of the Company’s common stock from obtaining representation on the Company’s Board of Directors and may make takeovers of the Company more difficult. For example, the Company’s Board of Directors is divided into three staggered classes. A classified board makes it more difficult for stockholders to change a majority of the directors because it generally takes at least two annual elections of directors for this to occur. The Company’s articles of incorporation include a provision that no person will be entitled to vote any shares of the Company’s common stock in excess of 10% of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock. This limitation does not apply to the purchase of shares by a tax-qualified employee stock benefit plan established by the Company. In addition, the Company’s articles of incorporation and bylaws restrict who may call special meetings of stockholders and how directors may be removed from office. The charter of the Bank generally provides that for a period of five years from the closing of the stock offering, no person other than the Company may directly or indirectly acquire or offer to acquire the beneficial ownership of more than 10% of any class of equity security of the Bank. In addition, during this five-year period, all shares owned over the 10% limit may not be voted on any matter submitted to stockholders for a vote. Additionally, in certain instances, the Maryland General Corporation Law requires a supermajority vote of stockholders to approve a merger or other business combination with a large stockholder, if the proposed transaction is not approved by a majority of the Company’s Board of Directors. The requirement to account for certain assets at estimated fair value may adversely affect results of operations. The Company reports certain assets, including securities, at fair value. Generally, for securities that are reported at fair value, the Company uses quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize observable market inputs to estimate fair value. Because these assets are carried on the Company’s books at their estimated fair value, the Company may record losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. Changes in the Company’s accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how the Company reports its financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s accounting policies are essential to understanding financial condition and results of operations of the Company. Some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect 23 Table of Contents the value of the Company’s assets or liabilities and financial results. Some of the Company’s accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective, and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain, and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. If such estimates or assumptions underlying the financial statements are incorrect, the Company may experience material losses. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of those standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s financial statements. These changes are beyond the control of the Company, can be hard to predict and could materially affect how the Company reports its financial condition and results of operations. The Company could also be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements in material amounts. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, the Bank may face significant operational risks. The Company operates in diverse markets and relies on the ability of its employees and systems to process a high number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from the Company’s operations, including but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside the company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, and business continuation and disaster recovery. Insurance coverage may not be available for such losses, or where available, such losses may exceed insurance limits. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, the Company could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action, and suffer damage to the Company’s reputation. Risks associated with system failures, interruptions, or breaches of security could negatively affect the Company’s earnings. Information technology systems are critical to the Company’s business. The Bank uses various technology systems to manage customer relationships, the general ledger, securities, deposits, and loans. The Bank has established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of system failures, interruptions, and security breaches, but such events may still occur or may not be adequately addressed if they do occur. In addition, any compromise of the Bank’s systems could deter customers from using the Bank’s products and services. Although the Bank relies on security systems to provide security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect the Bank’s systems from compromises or breaches of security. In addition, the Bank outsources a majority of the data processing to certain third-party providers. If these third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if the Bank has difficulty communicating with them, the Bank’s ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and the Bank’s business operations could be adversely affected. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. The occurrence of any system failures, interruption, or breach of security could damage the Bank’s reputation and result in a loss of customers and business thereby subjecting the Bank to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose the Bank to litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents The Company’s risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating risk and reducing the potential for significant losses. The Company’s risk management framework is designed to minimize risk and loss. The Company seeks to identify, measure, monitor, report and control exposure to risk, including, but not limited to, strategic, market, liquidity, compliance and operational risks. While the Company uses a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and mitigation techniques, these techniques are inherently limited because they cannot anticipate the existence or future development of currently unanticipated or unknown risks. Recent economic conditions and heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny of the financial services industry, among other developments, have increased the Company’s level of risk. Accordingly, the Company could suffer losses as a result of its failure to properly anticipate and manage these risks. Historically low interest rates may adversely affect the Company’s net interest income and profitability. The Federal Reserve Board has recently maintained interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a general matter, the Company’s interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than its interest-earning assets. This has resulted in increases in net interest income in the short term. The Company’s ability to lower its interest expense is limited at these interest rate levels while the average yield on its interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The FRB has indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates for an extended period. Accordingly, the Company’s net interest income (the difference between interest income earned on assets and interest expense paid on liabilities) may decrease, which may have an adverse affect on its profitability. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Concerns Not applicable. 