ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with information included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC, in your evaluation of our business and us. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. If any of the events or developments described below occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We depend on contracts with the U.S. government for substantially all of our revenue. If our relationships with U.S. government agencies were harmed, our business, future revenue and growth prospects would be adversely affected. We derive substantially all of our revenue from our U.S. government customers. We expect that U.S. government contracts will continue to be the primary source of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Our business, prospects, financial conditional or operating results would be materially harmed if: • the government ceases to do business with us, or significantly decreases the amount of business it does with us; • we were suspended or debarred from contracting with the U.S. government or a significant government agency; or • our reputation or relationship or that of our senior managers with the government agencies with which we currently do business or seek to do business is impaired. U.S. government spending and mission priorities may change in a manner that adversely affects our future revenue and limits our growth prospects. Our business depends upon continued U.S. government expenditures on intelligence, defense and other programs for which we provide support. These expenditures have not remained constant over time and have been reduced in certain periods. For example, the overall U.S. defense budget declined for certain periods of time in the late 1980s and the early 1990s, resulting in a slowing of new program starts, program delays and program cancellations. These reductions caused many defense-related government contractors to experience declining revenue, increased pressure on operating margins and, in some cases, net losses. While spending authorizations for intelligence and defense-related programs by the government have increased in recent years, and in particular after the 2001 terrorist attacks and more recently as a result of action in support of military and civil activity in Afghanistan and Iraq, future levels of expenditure, mission priorities and authorizations for these programs may decrease or shift to programs in areas where we do not currently provide services. Our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed among other causes by the following: • budgetary constraints affecting U.S. government spending generally, or specific departments or agencies in particular, and changes in available funding; • changes in U.S. government programs or requirements; • U.S. government shutdowns (such as that which occurred during fiscal year 1996) and other potential delays in the appropriations process; • realignment of funding with changed federal government priorities, which may impact the U.S. war efforts, including reductions in funding for in-theater missions; and • curtailment of the U.S. government’s outsourcing of mission-critical support and IT services. These or other factors could cause U.S. government agencies and departments to reduce their purchases under contracts, exercise their right to terminate contracts, or not exercise options to renew contracts, any of which could cause us to lose revenue. A significant decline in overall U.S. government spending, or a shift in expenditures away from agencies or programs that we support, could cause a material decline in our revenue. 9 Table of Contents We rely on a few large contracts for a significant portion of our revenue and net income. The loss of any one or more of these contracts could cause a material decline in our operating results. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we had four contracts that totaled of $116.9 million, or 55.0% of our total revenue. Although we have been successful in continuing work on most of our large contracts in the past, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. The revenue stream from one or more of these contracts could end for a number of reasons, including the completion of the customer’s requirements, the completion or early termination of our current contract, the consolidation of our work into another contract where we are not the holder of that contract, or the loss of a competitive bid for the follow-on work related to our current contract. If any of these events were to occur, we could experience an unexpected, significant reduction in revenue and net income. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for further discussion with respect to these contracts. We may lose money on some contracts if we do not accurately estimate the expense, time and resources necessary to satisfy our contractual obligations. We enter into three types of federal government contracts for our systems and services: fixed-price, time-and-materials and cost-plus. For the period February 9 to December 31, 2007 and the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, we derived revenue from such contracts as follows: Contract Type For the periodFebruary 9 toDecember 31,2007 For the year endedDecember 31, 2008 2009 Fixed-price 52.2% 58.8% 59.0% Time-and-materials 33.5% 29.3% 29.0% Cost-plus 11.9% 11.9% 12.0% Each of these types of contracts, to varying degrees, involves some risk that we could underestimate our cost of fulfilling the contract, which may reduce the profit we earn or lead to a financial loss on the contract. Under fixed-price contracts, we perform specific tasks for a fixed price. Compared to cost-plus contracts, fixed-price contracts generally offer higher margin opportunities but involve greater financial risk because we bear the impact of cost overruns and bear the risk of underestimating the level of effort required to perform the contractual obligations. The increased costs and expenses could produce a loss on the performance of the contract. Under time-and-materials contracts, we are reimbursed for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. We assume financial risk on time-and-material contracts because we assume the risk of performing those contracts at fixed hourly rates. Under cost-plus contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance-based. To the extent that the actual costs incurred in performing a cost-plus contract are within the contract ceiling and allowable under the terms of the contract and applicable regulations, we are entitled to reimbursement of our costs, plus a profit. However, if our costs exceed the ceiling or are not allowable under the terms of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to recover those excess or unallowable costs. Our profits could be adversely affected if our costs under any of these contracts exceed the assumptions we used in bidding for the contract. Over time, and particularly if we acquire other businesses, our contract mix may change, to include a greater proportion of fixed-price or time-and-materials contracts, which would increase our exposure to these risks. If we fail to comply with complex procurement laws and regulations, we could lose business and be liable for various penalties or sanctions. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts. These laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our federal 10 Table of Contents government customers. In complying with these laws and regulations, we may incur significant costs, and non-compliance may allow for the imposition of additional fines and penalties, including contractual damages. Among the more significant laws and regulations affecting our business are the following: • the Federal Acquisition Regulation, which comprehensively regulates the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts; • the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; • the Cost Accounting Standards and Cost Principles, which imposes accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based federal government contracts; and • laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of classified information and, under U.S. export control laws, the export of certain products and technical data. Our contracting agency customers periodically review our performance under and compliance with the terms of our federal government contracts. If we fail to comply with these control regimes or if a government review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, including: • termination of contracts; • forfeiture of profits; • cost associated with triggering of price reduction clauses; • suspension of payments; • fines; and • suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. Additionally, the False Claims Act provides for potentially substantial civil penalties where, for example, a contractor presents a false or fraudulent claim to the government for payment or approval. Actions under the False Claims Act may be brought by the government or by other persons on behalf of the government (who may then share a portion of any recovery). Because we are under foreign ownership, control or influence (FOCI), and our subsidiary is performing on U.S. classified contracts, we are a party to a Special Security Agreement with the Department of Defense and are subject to other requirements of the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual, which impose significant compliance obligations upon us. Our failure to comply with these obligations could result in our not being able to continue performing under our U.S. classified contracts, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We operate under a Special Security Agreement, or SSA, with the Department of Defense. If a company’s ownership structure presents the potential for foreign ownership, control, or influence, or FOCI, then the Department of Defense may require certain protective measures to mitigate the FOCI (such as an SSA) in order for the company and its subsidiaries to have security clearances. According to the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual, or NISPOM, a company is under FOCI if its foreign parent “has the power, direct or indirect, whether or not exercised, and whether or not exercisable through the ownership of the U.S. company’s securities, by contractual arrangements or other means, to direct or decide matters affecting the management or operations of that company in a manner which may result in unauthorized access to classified information or may adversely affect the performance of classified contracts.” Because a significant percentage of our voting equity is owned by a non-U.S. entity, we have been determined to be under FOCI, and are therefore required to operate pursuant to an SSA in order for our subsidiary to be able to maintain the requisite security clearances to access classified information and perform on classified contracts. We currently maintain a Top Secret level facility security clearance, or FCL, under the SSA and derive a significant portion of our revenue from classified contracts. If we were to violate the terms and requirements of 11 Table of Contents the SSA, the NISPOM, or any other applicable U.S. government industrial security regulations, we could lose our FCL. We cannot give any assurance that we will be able to maintain our FCL. If for some reason our FCL is suspended, invalidated or terminated, we may not be able to continue to perform our classified contracts in effect at that time or enter into new classified contracts. This would result in our not being able to recognize revenue and would thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We derive most of our revenue from contracts awarded through a competitive bidding process. This process can impose substantial costs upon us and we may lose revenue if we fail to compete effectively. We derive most of our revenue from federal government contracts that are awarded through a competitive bidding process and we expect that solicitation will continue for the foreseeable future. Competitive bidding presents a number of risks, including: • bidding on programs in advance of the completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns; • devoting substantial resources and managerial time and effort to preparing bids and proposals for contracts that are not awarded to us, which may result in reduced profitability; • failing to accurately estimate the resources and cost structure that will be required to service any contract we are awarded; • incurring expense and delay due to a competitor’s protest or challenge of contract awards made to us, including the risk that any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in the termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract, either of which may result in reduced profitability; • changes to client bidding practices or government reform of procurement practices, which may alter the prescribed contract relating to contract vehicles, contract types and consolidations; and • changes in policy and goals by the government providing set-aside funds to small businesses or disadvantaged businesses, and other socio-economic requirements in the allocation of contracts. If we are unable to win particular contracts that are awarded through the competitive bidding process, in addition to the risk that our operating results may be adversely affected, we may be unable to operate in the market for services that are provided under those contracts for a number of years. Even if we win a particular contract through competitive bidding, our profit margins may be depressed as a result of the costs incurred in the bidding process. We face intense competition from many competitors that, among other things, have greater resources than we do. We operate in highly competitive markets and generally encounter intense competition to win contracts and task orders. We compete with many other firms, ranging from small, specialized firms to mid-tier technology firms and large, diversified firms, many of which have substantially greater financial, management and marketing resources than we do. Our competitors may be able to provide our customers with different or greater capabilities or benefits than we can in areas such as technical qualifications, past contract performance, geographic presence, price and the availability of qualified professional personnel. Our failure to compete effectively because of any of these or other factors could cause our revenue and operating profits to decline. In addition, our competitors also have established or may establish relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to address our customers’ needs. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge that would compete with us more effectively than currently. Further, we may face competition from our subcontractors who, from time to time, seek to obtain prime contractor status on contracts for which they currently serve as a subcontractor for us. If one or more of our current subcontractors are awarded prime contractor status on such contracts in the future, it would divert sales from us and could force us to charge lower prices in order to ensure that we retain our prime contractor status. 12 Table of Contents Our estimated contract backlog may not result in actual revenue. As of December 31, 2009, our estimated contract backlog totaled $639.6 million, of which $103.1 million was funded. There can be no assurance that our backlog will result in actual revenue in any particular period, or at all, or that any contract included in our backlog will be profitable. There is a higher degree of risk in this regard with respect to unfunded backlog. The actual receipt and timing of any revenue is subject to various contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. The actual receipt of revenue on contracts included in backlog may never occur or may change because a program schedule could change, the program could be cancelled, a contract could be reduced, modified or terminated early, or an option that we had assumed would be exercised may not be exercised. Further, while many of our federal government contracts require performance over a period of years, Congress often appropriates funds for these contracts for only one year at a time. Consequently, our contracts typically are only partially funded at any point during their term, and all or some of the work intended to be performed under the contracts will remain unfunded pending subsequent Congressional appropriations and the obligations of additional funds to the contract by the procuring agency. Our estimates are based on our experience under such contracts and similar contracts. However, there can be no assurance that all or any, of such estimated contract value will be recognized as revenue. The loss of any member of our senior management could impair our relationships with federal government clients and disrupt the management of our business. We believe that the success of our business and our ability to operate profitably depends on the continued contributions of the members of our senior management. We rely on our senior management to generate business and execute programs successfully. In addition, the relationships and reputation that many members of our senior management team have established and maintain with federal government personnel contribute to our ability to maintain strong client relationships. Therefore, the loss of any member of our senior management could impair our ability to identify and secure new contracts, to maintain good client relations and to otherwise manage our business. If we fail to attract and retain skilled employees, we might not be able to perform under our contracts and our ability to maintain and grow our business could be limited. The growth of our business and revenue depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly qualified individuals who have advanced engineering and information technology skills, specialized knowledge of customer missions and appropriate security clearances, and who work well with our government customers. Competition for such personnel is intense, and recruiting, training and retention costs place significant demands on our resources. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, our ability to maintain and grow our business could be limited. Furthermore, we could be required to engage larger numbers of independent contractors, which could increase our costs and reduce our profit margins. In addition, many of our professional personnel may have specific knowledge of, and experience with, our federal government customers’ operations, and we may obtain some of our contracts based on that knowledge and experience. The loss of services of key personnel could impair our ability to perform required services under some of our contracts and to retain such contracts, as well as our ability to win new business. Recent events affecting the credit markets may restrict our ability to access additional financing. The U.S. and worldwide capital and credit markets have recently experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused market prices of many stocks to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in some cases have resulted in the unavailability of financing. Continued uncertainty in the capital and credit markets may negatively impact our business, including our ability to access additional financing at reasonable terms. A prolonged downturn in the financial markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to adjust our business plan accordingly, including abandoning one of our key growth strategies, to selectively pursue acquisitions. These events also may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of our equity securities. The disruptions in the financial markets may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock and other adverse effects on our business. 13 Table of Contents Internal system or service failures could disrupt our business and impair our ability to effectively provide our products and services to our customers, which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. We may be subject to systems failures, including network, software or hardware failures, whether caused by us, third-party service providers, intruders or hackers, computer viruses, natural disasters, power shortages or terrorist attacks. Any such failures could cause loss of data and interruptions or delays in our business, cause us to incur remediation costs, subject us to claims and damage our reputation. In addition, the failure or disruption of our communications or utilities could cause us to interrupt or suspend our operations or otherwise adversely affect our business. Our property and business interruption insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of any system or operational failure or disruption and, as a result, our future results could be adversely affected. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of factors outside our control, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our revenue and operating results vary from quarter to quarter and, as a result, our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Factors that may affect our operating results include those listed in this “Risk Factors” section and others that are specific to our industry, such as: • fluctuations in revenue earned on government contracts; • seasonal fluctuations in our staff utilization rates; • commencement, completion or termination of contracts during any particular quarter; • variable purchasing patterns of our customers; • changes in contract requirements by our government agency customers, particularly with respect to customer requirements for our expeditionary systems; and • changes in presidential administrations and senior federal government officials that affect the timing of technology procurement. Reductions in revenue in a particular quarter could lead to lower profitability in that quarter because a relatively large amount of our expenses are fixed in the short term. We incur significant operating expenses during the start-up and early stages of large contracts, and may not receive corresponding payments in that same quarter. We may also incur significant or unanticipated expenses when a contract expires, terminates or is not renewed. We will be liable for products and service failures to our customers. We create, implement and maintain information technology and technical services solutions that are often critical to our customers’ operations. We have experienced and, may in the future experience, some systems and service failures, schedule or delivery delays and other problems in connection with our work. If our solutions, services, products or other applications have significant defects or errors, are subject to delivery delays or fail to meet our customers’ expectations, we may: • lose revenue due to adverse customer reaction; • be required to provide additional services to a customer at no charge; • receive negative publicity, which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to attract or retain customers; and • suffer claims for substantial damages against us. In addition, these failures may result in increased costs or loss of revenue if they result in customers postponing subsequently scheduled work or canceling or failing to renew contracts. 14 Table of Contents While many of our contracts with the federal government limit our liability for damages that may arise from negligence in rendering services, we cannot be sure that these contractual provisions will protect us from liability for damages if we are sued. Furthermore, our errors and omissions and product liability insurance coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or the insurer may disclaim coverage as to some types of future claims. The successful assertion of any large claim against us could seriously harm our business. Even if not successful, these claims could result in significant legal and other costs and may be a distraction to our management and may harm our reputation. Security breaches in classified government systems could adversely affect our business. Many of the programs we support and systems we develop, install and maintain involve managing and protecting intelligence, national security and other classified government information. While we have designed programs to comply with relevant security laws, regulations and restrictions, a security breach in one of these systems could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation and prevent us from being eligible for further work on critical classified systems for federal government customers. Losses that we could incur from such a security breach could exceed the policy limits that we have for our errors and omissions or product liability insurance. Damage to our reputation or limitations on our eligibility for additional work resulting from a security breach in one of the systems we develop, install and maintain could materially reduce our revenue. Our employees or subcontractors may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, which could cause us to lose contracts. We are exposed to the risk that employee or subcontractor fraud or other misconduct could occur. Misconduct by our employees, or those of our subcontractors, could include intentional failure to comply with federal government procurement regulations, engaging in unauthorized activities or falsifying time records. Such misconduct could also involve the improper use of our clients’ sensitive or classified information as well as security breaches, which could result in regulatory sanctions against us, liability to third parties, adverse publicity and serious harm to our reputation and could result in a loss of contracts and a reduction in revenue and net income. It is not always possible to deter individual misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses, which could cause us to lose contracts or cause a reduction in revenue. Our business depends upon obtaining and maintaining required security clearances. Many of our federal government contracts require our employees to maintain various levels of security clearances, and we are required to maintain certain facility security clearances complying with Department of Defense and the Intelligence Community requirements. Obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involve lengthy processes, and it is difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees are unable to obtain or retain security clearances or if our employees who hold security clearances terminate employment with us and we are unable to find replacements with equal or greater security clearances, the customer whose work requires cleared employees could terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. In addition, we expect that many of the contracts on which we will bid will require us to demonstrate our ability to obtain facility security clearances and perform work with employees who hold specified types of security clearances. To the extent we are not able to obtain facility security clearances or engage employees with the required security clearances for a particular contract, we may not be able to bid on or win new contracts, or effectively re-bid on expiring contracts. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require an independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for fiscal year 2010 and beyond. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require an independent registered public accounting firm to test our internal control over financial reporting and report on the effectiveness of such controls for the year ending December 31, 2010 and subsequent years. Any delays or difficulty in satisfying these requirements could adversely affect our future results of operations and our stock price. 15 Table of Contents In addition, we may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement, particularly with respect to businesses that we may acquire. If so, we cannot be certain that any remedial measures we take will ensure that we have adequate internal controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010 and in future periods, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. This could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Failure to comply with Section 404 could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, the Nasdaq Global Market or other regulatory authorities. If our subcontractors or suppliers fail to perform their contractor obligations, our performance and reputation as a prime contractor and our ability to obtain future business could suffer. As a prime contractor, we often rely significantly upon other companies as subcontractors to perform work we are contractually obligated to perform for our clients. We are responsible for the work performed by our subcontractors, even though in some cases we have limited involvement in that work. If one or more of our subcontractors fail to satisfactorily perform the agreed-upon services on a timely basis or violate federal government contracting policies, laws or regulations, our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor or meet our clients’ expectations may be compromised. In extreme cases, failure to perform or other deficiencies on the part of our subcontractors could result in a client terminating our contract for default. A termination for default could expose us to liability, including liability for the agency’s costs of reprocurement, could damage our reputation and could hurt our ability to compete for future contracts. Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties or other adverse consequences to our business. One of our key operating strategies is to selectively pursue acquisitions. Our acquisition strategy poses many risks, including: • we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates at prices we consider attractive; • we may not be able to compete successfully for identified acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or accurately estimate the financial effect of acquisitions on our business; • future acquisitions may require us to issue common stock or spend significant cash, resulting in dilution of ownership or additional debt leverage; • we may have difficulty retaining an acquired company’s key employees or customers; • we may have difficulty integrating acquired businesses, resulting in unforeseen difficulties, such as incompatible accounting, information management, or other control systems; • acquisitions may disrupt our business or distract our management from other responsibilities; and • as a result of an acquisition, we may need to record write-downs from future impairments of intangible assets, which could reduce our future reported earnings. In connection with any acquisition that we make, there may be liabilities that we fail to discover or that we inadequately assess. Acquired entities may not operate profitably or result in improved operating performance. Additionally, we may not realize anticipated synergies. If our acquisitions perform poorly, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. We have a substantial investment in recorded goodwill as a result of the acquisition of SFA in 2007, and changes in future business conditions could cause this investment to become impaired, requiring substantial write-downs that could reduce our net income. As of December 31, 2009, goodwill accounted for $24.4 million, or 21.7% of our recorded total assets. We review our goodwill for impairment at least annually and when events or changes in circumstances indicate the 16 Table of Contents carrying value may not be recoverable. The annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. Principally, a decrease in expected reporting unit cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. If goodwill became impaired, we could record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which impairment of our goodwill is determined, which could significantly reduce or eliminate our net income. We may be harmed by intellectual property infringement claims. We may become subject to claims from employees or third parties who assert that intellectual property we use in delivering services and business solutions to our clients infringe upon intellectual property rights of such employees or third parties. Our employees develop much of the intellectual property that we use to provide our services and business solutions to our clients, but we also engage third parties to assist us and we license technology from other vendors. If our vendors or other third parties assert claims that we or our clients are infringing on their intellectual property, we could incur substantial costs to defend those claims, even if we prevail. In addition, if any of these infringement claims are ultimately successful, we could be required to: • pay substantial damages; • cease selling and using products and services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain a license or additional licenses from our vendors or third parties, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all; and • redesign our products and services that rely on the challenged intellectual property, which may be very expensive or commercially impractical. Any of these outcomes could significantly and adversely affect our operating results. We expect to incur debt in the future, which could substantially reduce our profitability, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, and reduce the value of your investment. As a result of our business activities and acquisitions, we have incurred debt. Although we substantially reduced our borrowings with the proceeds of our initial public offering, we may incur additional debt in the future, which could increase the risks described here and lead to other risks. The amount of our debt could have important consequences for holders of our stock, including, but not limited to: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product and service development, acquisitions, general corporate purposes, and other purposes may be impaired; • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations could be dedicated to the payment of the principal and interest on our debt; • we are and may continue to be vulnerable to economic downturns and rises in interest rates; • our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and the marketplace may be limited; and • we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage relative to other firms in our industry. Our ability to grow will be limited if we cannot obtain additional capital. Our growth strategy includes pursuing strategic acquisitions. We believe that it will be difficult to fund acquisitions with cash from operating activities. As a result, we expect to rely primarily upon the availability of debt or equity capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our access to debt or equity capital depends on a number of factors, including the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. Depending on the outcome of these factors, we could experience delay or difficulty in implementing our growth strategy on satisfactory terms, or could be unable to implement this strategy. 17 Table of Contents Our credit facility contains financial and operating covenants that limit our operations and could lead to adverse consequences if we fail to comply. Our credit facility entered into on February 3, 2010 contains financial and operating covenants relating to, among other things, minimum net worth, minimum EBITDA, a maximum funded debt ratio and a fixed charges coverage ratio, as well as limitations on mergers, consolidations and dissolutions, sales of assets; investments and acquisitions; indebtedness and liens; dividends; repurchase of shares of capital stock and options to purchase shares of capital stock; transactions with affiliates; sales and leaseback transactions; and restricted payments. Failure to meet these financial and operating covenants could result from, among other things, changes in our results of operations, the incurrence of debt or changes in general economic conditions. These covenants may restrict our ability to engage in transactions that we believe would otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders, which could harm our business and operations. Risks Related to Our Industry Our U.S. government contracts may be terminated by the federal government at any time and, if we do not replace terminated contracts, our operating results would be adversely affected. We derive most of our revenue from U.S. government contracts that typically span one or more base years and one or more option years. The option periods may cover more than half of the contract’s potential duration. U.S. government agencies have the right not to exercise these option periods. In addition, our contracts also contain provisions permitting a U.S. government client to terminate the contract on short notice and for its convenience, as well as for our default. A decision by a U.S. government agency not to exercise option periods or to terminate contracts could result in a reduction of our profitability on these contracts and significant revenue shortfalls. If the U.S. government terminates a contract for convenience, we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and reasonable profit on work completed prior to the termination. We cannot recover anticipated net income on terminated work. If the U.S. government terminates a contract for default, we may not recover even those amounts, and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. government in procuring undelivered items and services from another source. U.S. government contracts contain other provisions that may be unfavorable to contractors. Beyond the right to terminate a contract for convenience or decline to exercise an option to renew, U.S. government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give the U.S. government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. They also permit the U.S. government to do the following: • reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts; • cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; • claim rights in products and systems produced by us; and • suspend or debar us from doing business with the U.S. government. If the U.S. government exercises its rights under any of these provisions, our revenue and net income could decline. The industry in which our largest beneficial stockholder operates is frequently subject to government and media scrutiny which can harm our reputation and our business. In recent years, the media and committees of Congress have focused attention on the provision of security services by private contractors operating overseas. Our largest beneficial stockholder performs such services. Because our largest beneficial stockholder shares with us the “GLOBAL” name and corporate logo, there is 18 Table of Contents increased risk that the market will confuse the actions or perceptions of our largest beneficial stockholder with those of our company. To the extent that the government or the media perceive that GLOBAL has not complied with applicable laws or rules, the resulting publicity could, regardless of the accuracy of such a perception, harm our reputation and our business and cause our share price to decline. A preference for minority-owned, small and small disadvantaged businesses could impact our ability to be a prime contractor on certain government procurements. As a result of the Small Business Administration, or SBA, set-aside program, the U.S. government may decide to restrict certain procurements only to bidders that qualify as minority-owned, small or small-disadvantaged businesses. As a result, we would not be eligible to perform as a prime contractor on those programs and would be restricted to a maximum of 49% of the work as a subcontractor on those programs. An increase in the amount of procurements under the SBA set-aside program may impact our ability to bid on new procurements as a prime contractor or restrict our ability to recompete on incumbent work that is placed in the set-aside program. Unfavorable U.S. government audit results could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions, and could harm our reputation and relationships with our clients. The U.S. government, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA), audits and reviews our performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The DCAA reviews a contractor’s internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems, and the contractor’s compliance with such policies. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. Adverse findings in a DCAA audit could materially affect our competitive position and result in a substantial adjustment to our revenue and net income. If a U.S. government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of net income, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. government agencies. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation and competitive position if allegations of impropriety were made against us, whether or not true. If our reputation or relationship with U.S. government agencies were impaired, or if the U.S. government otherwise ceased doing business with us or significantly decreased the amount of business it does with us, our revenue and net income would decline. The U.S. government may revise its procurement or other practices in a manner adverse to us. The U.S. government may revise its procurement practices or adopt new contracting rules and regulations, such as cost accounting standards. It could also adopt new contracting methods relating to General Services Administration (GSA) contracts, or other government-wide acquisition contracts (GWACs), or adopt new standards for contract awards intended to achieve certain social or other policy objectives. In addition, the U.S. government may face restrictions from new legislation or regulations, as well as pressure from government employees and their unions, on the nature and amount of services the U.S. government may obtain from private contractors. These changes could impair our ability to obtain new contracts or contracts under which we currently perform when those contracts are put up for recompetition bids. Any new contracting methods could be costly or administratively difficult for us to implement, and, as a result, could harm our operating results. Additional Risks Related to Our Common Stock If our stock price fluctuates, you could lose a significant part of your investment. The market price of our common stock may be reduced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described above under “Risks Related to Our Business” and “Risks Related to Our Industry” and one or more of the following: • changes in stock market analysts’ recommendations regarding us, our competitors or the industry in which we operate generally, or lack of analyst coverage of our common stock; 19 Table of Contents • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or task orders, acquisitions or capital commitments; • loss of one or more of our significant customers; • changes in market valuations or earnings of our competitors; • variations in quarterly operating results; • availability of capital; • general economic conditions; • terrorist acts; • military action related to international conflicts, wars or otherwise; • adverse legislative or regulatory changes; • departures of key personnel; • future sales of our common stock; and • investor perception of us and our industry. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities litigation brought against them. If litigation of this type is brought against us, it could result in substantial costs and would divert management’s attention and our resources. Our largest beneficial stockholder has significant influence over us, which could result in our taking actions of which you or other stockholders do not approve. As of December 31, 2009, GLOBAL beneficially owns 3,803,274 shares of our common stock, or 42.0% of our outstanding common stock and therefore has significant influence over the outcome of all matters that our stockholders vote upon, including the election of directors, amendments to our certificate of incorporation and mergers and other business combinations. GLOBAL’s interests may not be aligned with your interests or those of our other investors. This concentration of ownership and voting power may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company and could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price if a change in control is proposed. In addition, GLOBAL may at any time elect to sell or otherwise transfer its beneficial ownership interest in us to another party unknown to us, whose intent or actions may not be aligned with your interests or those of our other investors. The buyer or transferee of GLOBAL’s beneficial ownership interest in us could include a competitor or other buyer who may use the influence they obtain over us for purposes which ultimately diminish the value of our common stock. We are a newly public company, and fulfilling our obligations incident to being a public company will be expensive and time consuming. As a public company, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, as well as the rules of the Nasdaq Global Market require us to maintain additional corporate governance practices and to adhere to a variety of reporting requirements and complex accounting rules. Compliance with these public company obligations requires us to devote significant management time and places significant additional demands on our finance and accounting staff and on our financial, accounting and information systems. Other expenses associated with being a public company include increased auditing, accounting and legal fees and expenses, investor relations expenses, increased directors’ fees and director and officer liability insurance costs, registrar and transfer agent fees, listing fees, as well as other expenses. We cannot accurately predict the amount of additional costs that we may incur or the timing of such costs, but we have estimated that such costs will approximate $2.5 million during our first 12 months of being a public company. 20 Table of Contents Sales of outstanding shares of our common stock into the market in the future could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly. GLOBAL beneficially owns 3,803,274 shares of our common stock, or 42.0% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2009. If GLOBAL sells, or the market perceives that GLOBAL intends to sell, a substantial portion of its beneficial ownership interest in us in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. The sales also could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of December 31, 2009, 9,051,812 shares of our common stock were outstanding. The 4,836,726 shares of our common stock, which includes 4,600,000 shares sold in the initial public offering and 236,726 shares sold to our underwriters through their overallotment option, are freely tradable, without restriction, in the public market and all of the remaining shares are subject to 180-day contractual lock-up agreements with our underwriters. Cowen and Company may, in its discretion, permit our directors, officers and current stockholders who are subject to these contractual lock-ups to sell shares prior to the expiration of the lock-up agreements. After the lock-up agreements pertaining to this offering expire, up to an additional 4,215,086 shares will be eligible for sale in the public market all of which are held by directors, executive officers and other affiliates and will be subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In addition, the 1,000,000 shares underlying options that are either subject to the terms of our equity compensation plans or reserved for future issuance under our equity compensation plans will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various option agreements, the lock-up agreements and Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. We do not intend to pay dividends. We intend to retain our earnings, if any, for general corporate purposes, and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, our existing credit facility restricts, and any future such facilities may restrict, us from paying such dividends. Our dividend policy and these restrictions in our financing arrangements may make our stock look less attractive to investors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 