D. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if any of the risks described below occur. As a result, the market price of our units and the American Depositary Shares (“ADSs”) could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. We may face additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, which may also impair our business. Risks Relating to Brazil The Brazilian government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Brazilian economy. This involvement, together with Brazil’s political and economic conditions, could adversely affect our financial condition and the market price of our securities. The Brazilian government exercises significant influence over the Brazilian economy and occasionally makes significant changes in policies and regulations. The Brazilian government’s actions to control inflation and other policies and regulations historically have involved, among other measures, increases in interest rates, changes in tax policies, price controls, currency fluctuations, taxation on investment flows, capital controls, limits on imports and changes in regulations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as the market price of our securities, may be adversely affected by changes in policies or regulations involving, among others: · interest rates; · exchange rates and controls and restrictions on the movement of capital out of Brazil (such as those briefly imposed in 1989 and early 1990); · reserve requirements; 10 Table of Contents · capital requirements; · currency fluctuations; · inflation; · liquidity of the domestic capital and lending markets; and · tax and regulatory policies. Although the Brazilian government has implemented several economic policies over the past few years, uncertainty over whether the Brazilian government will implement changes in policy or regulation in the future may contribute to economic uncertainty in Brazil and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities markets and in the securities issued abroad by Brazilian issuers. These uncertainties and other developments in the Brazilian economy may adversely affect us and the market value of our securities. For example, near the end of 2010, in an effort to stabilize economic growth and prevent the economy from overheating, the Brazilian Central Bank began implementing certain restrictive monetary policies and other measures aimed at controlling consumer lending, including implementing new minimum capital requirement for certain loans and establishing minimum payment standards for consumers on outstanding credit card balances and expanding compulsory deposits for financial institutions. In the second half of 2011, as economic activity appeared to be weakening, the Brazilian Central Bank eased many of the prior restrictive measures and continued easing measures throughout 2012, which included reductions in demand and time deposit reserve requirements and changes in reserve requirements with respect to agricultural and automotive loans. In addition, state-owned banks have a sizable market share in Brazil, with access to certain dedicated funding programs not available for private owned banks, and on certain occasions the Brazilian government has used state-owned banks to foster competition. We are not able to fully estimate the impact of these measures on our business and lending activity, nor are we able to predict how current or future measures may impact our business. Any changes in regulatory capital requirements for lending, reserve requirements or credit card regulations, among others, may materially adversely affect our business. Government efforts to control inflation may hinder the growth of the Brazilian economy and could harm our business. Brazil has experienced extremely high rates of inflation in the past and has therefore implemented monetary policies that have resulted in one of the highest interest rates in the world. The Brazilian government’s measures to fight inflation, principally through the Brazilian Central Bank, have had and may in the future have significant effects on the Brazilian economy and our business. Tight monetary policies with high interest rates and high compulsory reserve requirements may restrict Brazil’s growth and the availability of credit, reduce our loan volumes and increase our loan loss provisions. Conversely, more lenient government and Brazilian Central Bank policies and interest rate decreases may trigger increases in inflation, and, consequently, growth volatility and the need for sudden and significant interest rate increases, which could negatively affect our interest rate spreads. From January 2000 to August 2005, the average interest rate in Brazil was 18.9%, with the minimum rate of 15.25% and maximum of 26.50% during this period. With the favorable macroeconomic environment and inflation stability, the Brazilian Central Bank began a cycle of reducing interest rates starting in September 2005 from 19.5% to 8.75% in March 2010, when the interest rate reached a historical low for that period. After this period, in order to balance domestic demand, the Brazilian Central Bank began another period of adjustment in interest rates, which reached 12.5% in July 2011. However, the Brazilian Central Bank revised its monetary policy in August 2011, when it implemented a monetary easing policy to mitigate the spillover effects of the ongoing international financial crisis (particularly in Europe). As a result of this change in policy, the Special System of Settlement and Custody (Sistema Especial de Liquidação e Custódia — SELIC rate (the benchmark interest payable to holders of certain Brazilian government securities) was reduced a number of times during the second half of 2011 and throughout 2012 to reach 7.25% at October 10, 2012. It remained at 7.25% as of December 31, 2012. The majority of our income, expenses, assets and liabilities are directly tied to interest rates. Therefore, our results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by inflation, interest rate fluctuations and related government monetary policies, all of which may materially and adversely affect the growth of the Brazilian 11 Table of Contents economy, our loan portfolios, our cost of funding and our income from credit operations. We estimate that in 2012, a 1% increase or decrease in the base interest rate would have resulted in a decrease or increase, respectively, in our net interest income of R$272 million. Any changes in interest rates may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, increases in base interest rates may adversely affect us by reducing the demand for our credit and investment products, increasing funding costs and increasing in the short run the risk of default by our customers. Inflation adversely affects our personnel and other administrative expenses that are directly or indirectly tied to inflation rates, generally IPCA (consumer price inflation) and IGP-M (producer price inflation). For example, considering the amounts in 2012, each additional percentage point change in inflation, would impact our personnel and other administrative expenses approximately in R$71 million an R$59 million, respectively. Fluctuations in interest rates may affect our obligations under legacy employee pension funds. We sponsor certain defined benefit pension plans and a health care plan that benefit certain of our former and current employees, most of which were inherited from Banespa (though we discontinued the use of defined benefit plans pension for our employees in 2005). In order to determine the funded status of each legacy defined benefit pension plan and consequently the carried reserves necessary to pay future beneficiaries, we use certain actuarial techniques and assumptions which are inherently uncertain and involve the exercise of significant judgment, including with respect to interest rates, which are a key assumption in determining our current obligations under the legacy pension plans as interest rates are used to calculate the present value of such obligations. Changes in the present value of our obligations under our legacy defined benefit pension plans, due to a reduction in the value of the pension fund assets (depending on the performance of financial markets) or an increase in the pension fund liabilities due to changes in mortality assumptions, the rate of increase of salaries, discount rate assumptions (primarily based on yield levels of high graded securities), inflation, the expected rate of return on plan assets, or other factors, could result in our having to make increased contributions to reduce or satisfy the deficits which would divert resources from use in other areas of our business and reduce our capital resources. While we can control a number of the above factors, there are some over which we have no or limited control. Increases in our pension liabilities and obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in an effort to stimulate economic growth, during 2012, the Brazilian Central Bank progressively lowered the SELIC rate to a historic low of 7.25% as of October 2012, which was the effective rate as of December 31, 2012. The real rate on government-linked bonds was also decreased from around 6% as of December 31, 2011 to approximately 4% by the end of 2012. Due to the decrease in interest rates, the present value of obligations under our legacy defined benefit pensions plans was higher as of December 31, 2012 compared to December 31, 2011. Further decreases in interest rates may materially and adversely affect the funded status of our defined benefit plans and require us to make additional contributions to these plans to meet our pension funding obligations. Changes in regulation may negatively affect us. Brazilian financial markets are subject to extensive and continuous regulatory review by the Brazilian government, principally by the Brazilian Central Bank, the CVM and CMN. We have no control over government regulations, which govern all aspects of our operations, including regulations that impose: · minimum capital requirements; · compulsory deposit and/or reserve requirements; · requirements for investments in fixed rate assets; · lending limits and other credit restrictions, including compulsory allocations; · limits and other restrictions on fees; 12 Table of Contents · limits on the amount of interest banks can charge or the period for capitalizing interest; · accounting and statistical requirements; and · other requirements or limitations in the context of the global financial crisis. The regulatory structure governing Brazilian financial institutions is continuously evolving, and the Brazilian Central Bank has been known to react actively and extensively to developments in our industry. The measures of the Brazilian Central Bank and the amendment of existing laws and regulations, or the adoption of new laws or regulations could adversely affect our ability to provide loans, make investments or render certain financial services. .Increases in reserve, compulsory deposit and minimum capital requirements may have a material adverse effect on business, financial condition and results of operations. The Brazilian Central Bank has periodically changed the level of reserves and compulsory deposits that financial institutions in Brazil are required to maintain with the Brazilian Central Bank. The Brazilian Central Bank may increase the reserve and compulsory deposit requirements in the future or impose new requirements. Increases in reserve and compulsory deposit requirements reduce our liquidity to make loans and other investments and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on business, financial condition and results of our operations. Compulsory deposits generally do not yield the same return as other investments and deposits because a portion of compulsory deposits: · do not bear interest; · must be held in Brazilian federal government securities; and · must be used to finance government programs, including a federal housing program and rural sector subsidies. In March 2013, the Brazilian Central Bank issued Basel III rules regarding capital requirements and a timeline for implementation in Brazil. However the final requirements of liquidity and leverage were not defined. We cannot fully estimate the impacts of any final rules implemented by the Central Bank. Changes in taxes and other fiscal assessments may adversely affect us. The Brazilian government regularly enacts reforms to the tax and other assessment regimes to which we and our customers are subject. Such reforms include changes in the rate of assessments and, occasionally, enactment of temporary taxes, the proceeds of which are earmarked for designated governmental purposes. The effects of these changes and any other changes that result from enactment of additional tax reforms have not been, and cannot be, quantified and there can be no assurance that these reforms will not, once implemented, have an adverse effect upon our business. Furthermore, such changes may produce uncertainty in the financial system, increasing the cost of borrowing and contributing to the increase in our non-performing credit portfolio. Future changes in tax policy that may affect financial operations include the creation of new taxes. For example, with the 2011 enactment of Provisional Measure 539 , the Brazilian government established the Tax on Financial Transactions (“IOF/Securities Derivatives”) at a 1.0% rate per day on the notional value of the increased foreign exchange exposure. Also, in March 2012 the government changed the rules applicable to the tax assessed on the settlement of exchange transactions for the inflow of funds related to foreign loans, setting forth that loans with term were beneath the 1,800 day threshold would be subject to 6.0% taxation. In June 2012, said rules were changed by the Brazilian government, so that the 1,800 days tenor was reduced to 720 days. In December 2012, the rule was changed again, stating that only foreign loans with tenors of less than 360 days would be subject to 6.0%. The tax rate (1.5%) was increased to 3.0% (April 2011) and subsequently decreased to 1.5% (0.5% in December 2011 and 1% in May 2012). Until 2007, certain financial transactions were subject to the provisional contribution on financial transactions (Contribuição Provisória sobre a Movimentação ou Transmissão de Valores e de Créditos e Direitos de Natureza Financeira, or “CPMF”). However, uncertainty remains as to whether the CPMF or a similar tax will be re-introduced in the future. Also, the Brazilian Congress may discuss broad tax reforms in Brazil to improve the 13 Table of Contents efficiency of allocation of economic resources, as proposed by the executive branch of the Brazilian federal government. Major tax reforms in Brazil have been discussed over the last few years. We cannot predict if such tax reforms will be implemented in the future, nor can we quantify the effects of any such changes, if implemented. Exchange rate volatility may have a material adverse effect on the Brazilian economy and on our business. Brazilian currency has during the past decades experienced frequent and substantial variations in relation to the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies. Between 2000 and 2002, the real depreciated significantly against the U.S. dollar, reaching a selling exchange rate of R$3.53 per U.S.$1.00 at the end of 2002. Between 2003 and mid-2008, the real appreciated significantly against the U.S. dollar due to the stabilization of the macroeconomic environment and a strong increase in foreign investment in Brazil, with the exchange rate reaching R$1.56 per U.S.$1.00 in August 2008. As a result of the crisis in the global financial markets since mid-2008, the real depreciated 31.9% against the U.S. dollar over the course of 2008 and reached R$2.34 per U.S.$1.00 on December 31, 2008. The real recovered in the second half of 2009 and continued to appreciate in 2010, reaching R$1.74 per U.S.$1.00 on December 31, 2009 and R$1.67 per U.S.$1.00 on December 31, 2010, mainly due to the recovery of consumer confidence and exports and foreign investments in the second half of 2009, the effects of which continued through 2010. The real continued to appreciate in early 2011 reaching R$1.53 per U.S.$1.00 on July 26, but depreciated during the second half of the year due to the ongoing international financial crisis (particularly in Europe) which caused certain selling pressure on the real and the exchange rate as of December 31, 2011 was R$1.88 per U.S.$1.00. The real appreciated during the beginning of 2012, reaching R$1.70 per U.S.$1.00 on February 28, 2012, but has since depreciated, reaching R$2.04 per U.S.$1.00 on December 31, 2012. Depreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar also could create inflationary pressures in Brazil and cause increases in interest rates, which could negatively affect the growth of the Brazilian economy as a whole and harm our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, depreciation of the real could make our foreign currency-linked obligations and funding more expensive, negatively affect the market price of our securities portfolios and have similar consequences for our borrowers. Conversely, appreciation of the real relative to the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies could lead to a deterioration of the Brazilian foreign exchange currency accounts, as well as dampen export-driven growth. Depending on the circumstances, either depreciation or appreciation of the real could materially and adversely affect the growth of the Brazilian economy and our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the year ended December 31, 2012, a variation of 1.0% in the exchange rate of reais to U.S. dollars would have resulted in a variation in interest expense on our outstanding liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars of R$155.3 million during that period. Developments and the perception of risk in other countries, especially in the United States, European countries and in emerging market countries, may adversely affect our access to financing and the market price of our securities. The market value of securities of Brazilian issuers is affected by economic and market conditions in other countries, including the United States, European countries (including Spain, where Santander Spain, our indirect controlling shareholder, is based), as well as in other Latin American and emerging market countries. Even though the world economy and the financial and capital markets had been recovering from the 2008 crisis throughout 2010 and early 2011, the conditions of the global markets again deteriorated in 2011 and continued through 2012. European countries encountered serious fiscal problems, including high debt levels that impair growth and increase the risk of sovereign default. Also in 2011, the United States faced fiscal difficulties, which culminated in the downgrade of the U.S. long-term sovereign credit rating by Standard & Poor’s. Ongoing political debates in 2012 with respect to how the United States government would address the so-called “fiscal cliff” contributed to economic uncertainty. In 2012, the world economy continued to grow at a slow pace. As the year progressed, spillovers from the crisis in Europe weighed negatively on activity and confidence and the global recovery slowed. Although economic conditions in Europe and the United States may differ significantly from economic conditions in Brazil, investors’ reactions to developments in these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Brazilian issuers. In particular, investor perceptions of the risks associated with our securities may be affected by perception of risk conditions in Spain. Additionally, crises in other emerging market countries may diminish investor interest in securities of Brazilian issuers, including our securities. This could adversely affect the market price of our securities, restrict our access to the capital markets and compromise our ability to finance our operations in the future on favorable terms, or at all. 14 Table of Contents In addition, we continue to be exposed to disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets because of their effects on the financial and economic environment in the countries in which we operate, particularly Brazil, such as a slowdown in the economy, an increase in the unemployment rate, a decrease in the purchasing power of consumers and the lack of credit availability. We lend primarily to Brazilian borrowers, and these effects could materially and adversely affect our customers and increase our non-performing loans, resulting in increased risk associated with our lending activity and requiring us to make corresponding revisions to our risk management and loan loss reserve models. For example, we experienced an increase in our non-performing loans overdue past 90 days, which reached 5.8%, at the end of December 2010 and 6.7% on December 31, 2011, due in part to increasing economic uncertainty globally and a slowdown in the Brazilian economy. As of December 31, 2012, this indicator reached 7.6%. Continued or worsening disruption or volatility in the global financial markets could further increase negative effects on the financial and economic environment in Brazil and the other countries in which we operate, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Risks Relating to our Business and the Brazilian Financial Services Industry The increasingly competitive environment and recent consolidations in the Brazilian financial services market may adversely affect our business prospects. The Brazilian financial markets, including the banking, insurance and asset management sectors, are highly competitive. We face significant competition in all of our main areas of operation from other Brazilian and international banks, both public and private, as well as insurance companies. In recent years, the competition has increased in the sectors of banking and insurance. Furthermore, the consolidation of the Brazilian financial sector, with the merger of large banks, especially in 2008 and 2009, and the privatization of public banks have also increased competition in the Brazilian market for banking and financial services. In 2009 and 2012, we experienced the compression of credit spreads by some of our competitors, following the public banks which aggressively increased their volume of loans with spreads lower than those charged by private banks. As was the case in 2009 and 2012, we may experience similar situations that may affect us negatively and reduce our market share in the future. New mergers and acquisitions of banks and insurance companies by one of our competitors would likely increase such competitor’s market share and customer base, and, as a result, we may face heightened competition. An increase in competition may negatively affect our business results and prospects by, among other things: · limiting our ability to increase our customer base and expand our operations; · reducing our profit margins on the banking, insurance, leasing and other services and products we offer; and · increasing competition for investment opportunities. Our securities and derivative financial instruments are subject to market price and liquidity variations due to changes in economic conditions and may produce material losses. Financial instruments including securities represent 17.7% of our total assets. Any realized or unrealized future gains or losses from these investments or hedging strategies could have a significant impact on our income. These gains and losses, which we account for when we sell or mark-to-market investments in financial instruments, can vary considerably from one period to another. If, for example, we enter into derivatives transactions to protect ourselves against decreases in the value of the real or in interest rates and the real instead increases in value or interest rates increase, we may incur financial losses. We cannot forecast the amount of gains or losses in any future period, and the variations experienced from one period to another do not necessarily provide a meaningful forward-looking reference point. Gains or losses in our investment portfolio may create volatility in net revenue levels, and we may not earn a return on our consolidated investment portfolio, or on a part of the portfolio in the future. Any losses on our securities and derivative financial instruments could materially and adversely affect our operating income and financial condition. In addition, any decrease in the value of these securities and derivatives portfolios may result in a decrease in our capital ratios, which could impair our ability to engage in lending activity at the levels we currently anticipate. 15 Table of Contents We may experience increases in our level of past due loans as our loan portfolio matures. Our loan portfolio has grown substantially in recent years. At the end of December 31, 2012 our loan portfolio grew 8.5% and our past-due loans grew 22.8%. Increases in our level of past due loans have generally lagged behind the rate of loan growth and the increase in our level of past due loans reflects, in part, the slowdown in economic activity during 2012. In particular, many of our borrowers, specifically industrial borrowers focused on production for retail sales, exhibited an increased appetite for borrowing in 2010 and 2011 (primarily to fund expansion of their manufacturing capabilities) with the expectation of favorable economic conditions that did not occur during 2012. In addition, in recent years, consumer credit was much more widely accessible to Brazilian families, due to a significant reduction in social and regional inequalities and increased purchasing power for Brazilian families; which led many Brazilian families to assume a high level of household debt, in large part due to lack of experience in managing credit. Combined with high interest rates and inflation, the increased availability of consumer credit resulted in higher rates of customer defaults and increases in our level of past due loans as our loan portfolio matures in this portfolio. Rapid loan growth (such as occurred lending to industrial and individual borrowers in 2010 and 2011) may also reduce our ratio of past due loans to total loans until growth slows or the portfolio becomes more seasoned. The market trends described above have contributed to increases in our level of past due loans and may result in increases in our loan loss provisions, charge-offs and the ratio of past-due loans to total loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our loan portfolio may not continue to grow at the same rate and economic uncertainty may lead to a contraction in our loan portfolio. There can be no assurance that our loan portfolio will continue to grow at rates similar to the historical growth rate we have experienced. A reversal of the rate of growth of the Brazilian economy, a slowdown in the growth of customer demand, an increase in market competition or changes in governmental regulation and an increase of the SELIC rate, could adversely affect the rate of growth of our loan portfolio and our risk index and, accordingly, increase our required allowances for loan losses. As a result of the slowdown in economic growth in 2012, our loan portfolio grew 8.5% in 2012, as compared to 20.9% in 2011. Ongoing economic uncertainty could materially adversely affect the liquidity, businesses and financial condition of our customers as well as lead to a general decline in consumer spending and a rise in unemployment. All this could in turn lead to decreased demand for borrowings in general, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our loan and investment portfolios are subject to risk of prepayment, which may result in reinvestment of assets on less profitable terms. Our loan and investment portfolios are subject to prepayment risk which results from the ability of a borrower to pay a loan prior to maturity and which comes at a time that is inconsistent with the financing of such loan by us. Generally, in a declining interest rate environment, prepayment activity increases with the effect of reducing weighted average lives of interest earning assets and adversely affecting results. Prepayment risk also has an adverse impact on our credit card and residential mortgage portfolios, since prepayments could shorten the weighted average life of these portfolios, which may result in a mismatch in funding or in reinvestment at lower yields. Credit, market and liquidity risks may have an adverse effect on our credit ratings and our cost of funds. Any downgrading in Brazil’s, our controlling shareholder’s, or our credit rating, would likely increase our cost of funding, require us to post additional collateral under some of our derivative contracts and adversely affect our interest margins and results of operations. Credit ratings affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding. Rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength, conditions that affect the financial services industry generally and the economic environment in which the company operates. During 2012, the three major risk rating agencies: Standard & Poor’s Rating Services (“S&P”), Fitch Ratings Ltd. (“Fitch”) and Moody’s Investor Services, Inc. (“Moody’s”) have downgraded the Sovereign Spain rating, due to the fiscal crises in Spain and in several other European countries. As a result, Santander Spain (our controlling shareholder) also had its credit rating downgraded by the three major rating agencies: Fitch Ratings (on June 11, 2012) from A to BBB+, Moody’s (on June 25, 2012) to Baa2 and S&P (on October 15, 2012) to BBB, which in each case was one notch above Spain’s sovereign rating. 16 Table of Contents Despite recent downgrades in the credit ratings of our controlling shareholder, Santander Spain, we have not had a considerable impact on our onshore funding costs during 2012, nor have any such downgrades resulted in a requirement for us to post additional collateral or limited our access to the capital markets. We believe we have a stable funding profile, with approximately 90.0% of our funding in the domestic market. Our long-term debt in foreign currency is currently rated as BBB with a stable outlook by S&P, as BBB with negative outlook by Fitch and as Baa2 with a positive outlook by Moody’s. A downgrade in Santander Brasil’s credit rating could increase our cost of international funding by around 200 bps. A scenario of 200 bps credit spread increase would result in preference to issue securities in the local market, where we concentrate our funding base. Any downgrade in Brazil’s sovereign credit ratings, those of our controlling shareholder, or in our ratings, would likely increase our borrowing costs. For example, a ratings downgrade could adversely affect our ability to sell or market certain of our products, such as subordinated securities, engage in certain longer-term and derivatives transactions, and retain our customers, particularly customers who need a minimum rating threshold in order to invest. This, in turn, could reduce our liquidity and have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In light of the difficulties in the financial services industry and the financial markets, there can be no assurance that the rating agencies will maintain their current ratings or outlooks, or with regard to those rating agencies that have a negative outlook with respect to us or our controlling shareholder, there can be no assurances that such agencies will revise such outlooks upward. Our failure to maintain favorable ratings and outlooks would likely increase our cost of funding and adversely affect our interest margins and results of operations. The effectiveness of our credit risk management is affected by the quality and scope of information available in Brazil. In assessing customers’ creditworthiness, we rely largely on the credit information available from our own internal databases, certain publicly available consumer credit information and other sources. Due to limitations in the availability of information and the developing information infrastructure in Brazil, our assessment of credit risk associated with a particular customer may not be based on complete, accurate or reliable information. In addition, we cannot assure that our credit scoring systems collect complete or accurate information reflecting the actual behavior of customers or that their credit risk can be assessed correctly. Without complete, accurate and reliable information, we have to rely on other publicly available resources and our internal resources, which may not be effective. As a result, our ability to effectively manage our credit risk and subsequently our loan loss allowances may be materially adversely affected. Since our principal sources of funds are short-term deposits, a sudden shortage of funds could cause an increase in costs of funding and an adverse effect on our revenues. Customer deposits are our primary source of funding. As of December 31, 2012, 54.0% of our customer deposits had remaining maturities of one year or less, or were payable on demand while 46.0% of our assets have longer maturities, resulting in a mismatch between the maturities of liabilities and the maturities of assets. If a substantial number of our depositors withdraw their demand deposits or do not roll over their time deposits upon maturity, our liquidity position, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that in the event of a sudden or unexpected shortage of funds in the banking system, any money markets in which we operate will be able to maintain levels of funding without incurring higher funding costs or the liquidation of certain assets. If this were to happen, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Exposure to Brazilian federal government debt could have a material adverse effect on us. Like many other Brazilian banks, we invest in debt securities issued by the Brazilian government. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 13.8% of our total assets, and 83% of our securities portfolio, was comprised of debt securities issued by the Brazilian government. Any failure by the Brazilian government to make timely payments under the terms of these securities, or a significant decrease in their market value, will have a material adverse effect on us. 17 Table of Contents We engage in transactions with related parties that others may not consider to be on an arm’s-length basis. We are likely to continue to engage in transactions with related parties (including our controlling shareholder) on an arm’s length basis. Conflicts of interest between us and related parties may arise. These conflicts are not required to be and may not be resolved in our favor. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions”. Our business is highly dependent on proper functioning and improvement of information technology systems. Our business is highly dependent on the ability of our information technology systems to accurately process a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets and products in a timely manner. The proper functioning of our financial control, risk management, accounting, customer service and other data processing systems is critical to our business and our ability to compete effectively. We have backup data for our key data processing systems that could be used in the event of a catastrophe or a failure of our primary systems, and have established alternative communication networks where available. However, we do not operate all of our redundant systems on a real time basis and cannot assure you that our business activities would not be materially disrupted if there were a partial or complete failure of any of these primary information technology systems or communication networks. Such failures could be caused by, among other things, major natural catastrophes, software bugs, computer virus attacks or conversion errors due to system upgrading. In addition, any security breach caused by unauthorized access to information or systems, or intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to remain competitive and achieve further growth will depend in part on our ability to upgrade our information technology systems and increase our capacity on a timely and cost effective basis. Any substantial failure to improve or upgrade information technology systems effectively or on a timely basis could materially and adversely affect our competitiveness, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to counterparty risk in our banking business. We are exposed to counterparty risks in addition to credit risks associated with lending activities. Counterparty risk may arise from, for example, investing in securities of third parties, entering into derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us, or executing securities, futures, currency or commodity trades from proprietary trading activities that fail to settle at the required time due to non-delivery by the counterparty or systems failure by clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries. We routinely transact with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual funds, hedge funds and other institutional clients. Defaults by, and even rumors or questions about the solvency of, certain financial institutions and the financial services industry generally have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by other institutions. Many of the routine transactions we enter into expose us to significant credit risk in the event of default by one of our significant counterparties. If these risks give rise to losses, this could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have a diversified loan portfolio, with no specific concentration exceeding 10.0% of total loans, however we cannot assure this will continue to be the case. If counterparty risks give rise to losses, this could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to protect personal information could adversely affect us. We manage and hold confidential personal information of customers in the conduct of our banking operations. Although we have procedures and controls to safeguard personal information in our possession, unauthorized disclosures could subject us to legal actions and administrative sanctions as well as damages that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our market, credit and operational risk management policies, procedures and methods may not be fully effective in mitigating our exposure to all risks, including unidentified or unanticipated risks. Our market and credit risk management policies, procedures and methods, including our use of value at risk, or “VaR”, and other statistical modeling tools, may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all economic market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that we fail to identify or anticipate. Some 18 Table of Contents of our qualitative tools and metrics for managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. We apply statistical and other tools to these observations to arrive at quantifications of our risk exposures. These qualitative tools and metrics may fail to predict future risk exposures. These risk exposures could, for example, arise from factors we did not anticipate or correctly evaluate in our statistical models. This would limit our ability to manage our risks. Our losses thus could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. In addition, our quantified modeling does not take all risks into account. Our more qualitative approach to managing those risks could prove insufficient, exposing us to material unanticipated losses. If existing or potential customers believe our risk management is inadequate, they could take their business elsewhere. This could harm our reputation as well as negatively affect our revenues and profits. Operational risk losses can result from inadequate personnel, inadequate or failed internal control processes and systems, information systems failures or from external events that interrupt normal business operations. We also face the risk that the design of our controls and procedures for mitigating operational risk is inadequate or insufficient. We have suffered losses from operational risk in the past, and there can be no absolute assurance that we will not suffer material losses from operational risk in the future. In addition the value of the collateral securing our loan portfolio may significantly fluctuate or decline due to factors beyond our control, including macroeconomic factors affecting Brazil’s economy. We may also not have sufficiently recent information on the value of collateral, which may result in an inaccurate assessment for impairment losses of our loans secured by such collateral. If this were to occur, we may need to make additional provisions to cover actual impairment losses of our loans, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Damage to our reputation could cause harm to our business prospects. Maintaining a positive reputation is critical to our attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees. Damage to our reputation can therefore cause significant harm to our business and prospects. Harm to our reputation may arise from numerous sources, including, among others, employee misconduct, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failure to deliver minimum standards of service and quality, compliance failures, unethical behavior, and the activities of customers and counterparties. Furthermore, negative publicity regarding us, whether true or not, may result in harm to our business prospects. Actions by the financial services industry generally or by certain members of, or individuals in, the industry may also affect our reputation. For example, the role played by financial services firms in the financial crisis and the seeming shift toward increasing regulatory supervision and enforcement has caused public perception of us and others in the financial services industry to decline. Any failure to establish or preserve a favorable reputation among our customers and in the market in general could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We plan to continue to expand our operations and we may not be able to manage such growth effectively, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. We allocate management and planning resources to develop strategic plans for organic growth and to identify possible acquisitions, disposals and areas for restructuring our businesses. We cannot provide assurance that we will, in all cases, be able to manage our growth effectively or achieve our strategic growth objectives. Challenges that may result from the strategic growth decisions include our ability to: · efficiently manage the operations and employees of expanding businesses; · maintain or grow our existing customer base; · assess the value, strengths and weaknesses of investment or acquisition candidates; · fully integrate strategic investments, or newly-established entities or acquisitions in line with our strategy; · align our current information technology systems adequately with those of a larger group; · apply our risk management policy effectively to a larger group; and · manage a growing number of entities without over-committing management or losing key personnel. 19 Table of Contents Any failure to manage growth effectively, including relating to any or all of the above challenges associated with our growth plans, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and business prospects. Risks Relating to Our Controlling Shareholder, Our Units and American Depositary Shares (ADSs) Our ultimate controlling shareholder has a great deal of influence over our business. Santander Spain, our ultimate controlling shareholder, currently owns, directly and indirectly, approximately 74.98% of our total capital. Due to its share ownership, our controlling shareholder has the power to control us and our subsidiaries, including the power to: · elect a majority of our directors that appoint our executive officers, set our management policies and exercise overall control over our company and subsidiaries; · influence the appointment of our principal officers; · declare the payment of any dividends; · agree to sell or otherwise transfer its controlling stake in our company; and · determine the outcome of substantially all actions requiring shareholder approval, including transactions with related parties, corporate reorganizations, acquisitions and dispositions of assets, and dividends. We operate as a stand-alone subsidiary within the Santander Group. Our controlling shareholder has no liability for our banking operations, except for the amount of its holdings of our capital stock. The interests of Santander Spain may differ from the interests of our other shareholders, and the concentration of control in Santander Spain will limit other shareholders’ ability to influence corporate matters. As a result, we may take actions that our other shareholders do not view as beneficial. Our status as a controlled company and a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain of the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), limiting the protections afforded to investors. We are a “controlled company” and a “foreign private issuer” within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a controlled company is exempt from certain NYSE corporate governance requirements. In addition, a foreign private issuer may elect to comply with the practice of its home country and not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that (1) a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) a nominating and corporate governance committee be established that is composed entirely of independent directors and has a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, (3) a compensation committee be established that is composed entirely of independent directors and has a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities and (4) an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees be undertaken. Although we have similar practices, they do not entirely conform to the NYSE requirements, therefore we currently use these exemptions and intend to continue using them. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all NYSE corporate governance requirements. Cancellation of units may have a material and adverse effect on the market for the units and on the value of the units. Holders of units may present these units or some of these units for cancellation in Brazil in exchange for the common shares and preferred shares underlying these units. If unit holders present a significant number of units for cancellation in exchange for the underlying common shares and preferred shares, the liquidity and price of the units may be materially and adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents The relative volatility and limited liquidity of the Brazilian securities markets may negatively affect the liquidity and market prices of the units and the ADSs. Although the Brazilian equity market is the largest in Latin America in terms of capitalization, it is smaller and less liquid than the major U.S. and European securities markets. The BM&FBOVESPA is significantly less liquid than the NYSE or other major exchanges in the world. As of December 31, 2012, the aggregate market capitalization of the BM&FBOVESPA was equivalent to approximately R$2.5 trillion (U.S.$1.2 trillion) and the top ten stocks in terms of trading volume accounted for approximately 51.8% of all shares traded on BM&FBOVESPA in the year ended December 31, 2012. In contrast, as of December 31, 2012, the aggregate market capitalization of the NYSE was approximately U.S.$18.8 trillion. Although any of the outstanding shares of a listed company may trade on the BM&FBOVESPA, in most cases fewer than half of the listed shares are actually available for trading by the public, the remainder being held by small groups of controlling persons, government entities or a principal shareholder. The relative volatility and limited liquidity of the Brazilian securities markets may substantially limit your ability to sell the units or ADSs at the time and price you desire and, as a result, could negatively impact the market price of these securities. The economic value of your investment may be diluted. We may, from time to time, need additional funds and, in the event that public or private financing is unavailable or if our shareholders decide, we may issue additional units or shares. Any additional funds obtained by such a capital increase may dilute your interest in our company. Actual or anticipated sales of a substantial number of units or our common shares or preferred shares in the future could decrease the market prices of the ADSs. Sales of a substantial number of our units or our common shares or preferred shares in the future, or the anticipation of such sales, could negatively affect the market prices of our units and ADSs. In connection with our listing on the BM&FBOVESPA, prior to October 7, 2012 (extendable under certain circumstances to October 7, 2014) we were required to have a public float representing at least 25.0% of our total capital. On October 5, 2012, the BM&FBOVESPA extended our period for our compliance with this requirement to October 7, 2013, a deadline that may be extended one additional year if, at least ninety days prior to October 7, 2013, we present a detailed plan to obtain the minimum percentage of outstanding shares by October 7, 2014. As of October 5, 2012, our outstanding public float was 24.4% of our total capital and Santander Spain had reported its intention to increase the public float to 25.0% through sales to qualified investors either in Brazil or abroad. If, in the future, substantial sales of units or common shares or preferred shares are made by existing or future holders, the market prices of the ADSs may decrease significantly. As a result, holders of ADSs may not be able to sell their ADSs at or above the price they paid for them. Delisting of our shares from Level 2 of BM&FBOVESPA may negatively affect the price of our ADSs and units. Companies listed on Level 2 of BM&FBOVESPA are required to have a public float of at least 25.0% of their total capital. As of October 5, 2012, our public float was approximately 24.4% of our outstanding capital. Initially, we had a grace period of three years from October 7, 2009, the date of the listing our shares on Level 2 of BM&FBOVESPA, extendable for an additional two years upon presentation of a plan to BM&FBOVESPA to comply with the minimum public float requirement. On October 5, 2012, the BM&FBOVESPA granted an extension for our compliance with this requirement until October 7, 2013, which deadline may be extended one additional year if at least ninety days prior to October 7, 2013, we present a detailed plan to obtain the minimum percentage of outstanding shares by October 7, 2014. Santander Spain has reported its intention to increase the public float to 25.0% through sales to qualified investors either in Brazil or abroad. If we do not meet the minimum public float requirement, we may be subject to fines and eventually be delisted from Level 2 of BM&FBOVESPA and be traded at the regular level of BM&FBOVESPA. Level 2 regulations are also subject to change, and we may not be able to comply with such changes. Although such delisting could result in the obligation of the controlling shareholder to carry out a mandatory tender offer for the shares of the minority shareholders, such delisting may result in a decrease of the price of our shares, units and ADSs. 21 Table of Contents Holders of our units and our ADSs may not receive any dividends or interest on shareholders’ equity. According to our by-laws, we must generally pay our shareholders at least 25.0% of our annual net income as dividends or interest on shareholders’ equity, as calculated and adjusted under Brazilian corporate law (“adjusted net income”), which may differ significantly from our net income as determined under IFRS. This adjusted net income may be capitalized, used to absorb losses or otherwise retained as allowed under Brazilian corporate law and may not be available to be paid as dividends or interest on shareholders’ equity. Additionally, Brazilian corporate law allows a publicly traded company like ours to suspend the mandatory distribution of dividends and interest on shareholders’ equity in any particular year if our board of directors informs our shareholders that such distributions would be inadvisable in view of our financial condition or cash availability. We paid R$3.5 billion, R$3.2 billion and R$2.7 billion (R$0.93, R$0.84 and R$0.70 per unit) as dividends and interest on shareholders’ equity in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively, in accordance with our dividend policy. See “Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Payment of Dividends and Interest Attributable to Shareholders’ Equity—Dividends”. Holders of ADSs may find it difficult to exercise voting rights at our shareholders’ meetings. Holders of ADSs will not be our direct shareholders and will be unable to enforce directly the rights of shareholders under our by-laws and Brazilian corporate law. Holders of ADSs may exercise voting rights with respect to the units represented by ADSs only in accordance with the deposit agreement governing the ADSs. Holders of ADSs will face practical limitations in exercising their voting rights because of the additional steps involved in our communications with ADS holders. For example, we are required to publish a notice of our shareholders’ meetings in specified newspapers in Brazil. Holders of our units will be able to exercise their voting rights by attending a shareholders’ meeting in person or voting by proxy. By contrast, holders of ADSs will receive notice of a shareholders’ meeting by mail from the American Depositary Receipts (“ADRs”) depositary following our notice to the depositary requesting the depository to do so. To exercise their voting rights, holders of ADSs must instruct the ADR depositary on a timely basis on how they wish to vote. This voting process necessarily will take longer for holders of ADSs than for holders of our units or shares. If the ADR depositary fails to receive timely voting instructions for all or part of the ADSs, the depositary will assume that the holders of those ADSs are instructing it to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us to vote their ADSs, except in limited circumstances. Holders of ADSs also may not receive the voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote the units underlying their ADSs. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions of the holders of ADSs or for the manner of carrying out those voting instructions. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may not be able to exercise voting rights, and they will have little, if any, recourse if the units underlying their ADSs are not voted as requested. Holders of ADSs could be subject to Brazilian income tax on capital gains from sales of ADSs. Law 10,833 of December 29, 2003 provides that the disposition of assets located in Brazil by a non-resident to either a Brazilian resident or a non-resident is subject to taxation in Brazil, regardless of whether the disposition occurs outside or within Brazil. This provision results in the imposition of income tax on the gains arising from a disposition of our units by a non-resident of Brazil to another non-resident of Brazil. It is unclear whether ADSs representing our units, which are issued by the ADR depositary outside Brazil, will be deemed to be “property located in Brazil” for purposes of this law. There is no judicial guidance as to the application of Law 10,833 of December 29, 2003 and, accordingly, we are unable to predict whether Brazilian courts may decide that it applies to dispositions of our ADSs between non-residents of Brazil. However, in the event that the disposition of assets is interpreted to include a disposition of our ADSs, this tax law would accordingly impose withholding taxes on the disposition of our ADSs by a non-resident of Brazil to another non-resident of Brazil. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Brazilian Tax Considerations”. Any gain or loss recognized by a U.S. taxpayer will generally be treated as U.S. source gain or loss. A U.S. taxpayer would not be able to credit any Brazilian tax imposed on the disposition of our units or ADSs against such person’s U.S. federal income tax liability, unless such credit can be applied (subject to applicable limitations) against tax due on other income of such person from foreign sources. 22 Table of Contents Judgments of Brazilian courts with respect to our units or ADSs will be payable only in reais. Our by-laws provide that we, our shareholders, our directors and officers and the members of our fiscal council shall submit to arbitration any and all disputes or controversies that may arise amongst ourselves relating to, or originating from, the application, validity, effectiveness, interpretation, violations and effects of violations of the provisions of Brazilian corporate law, our by-laws, the rules and regulations of the CMN, the Brazilian Central Bank and the CVM, as well as other rules and regulations applicable to the Brazilian capital markets in addition to the listing regulations of the Level 2 segment of the BM&FBOVESPA, our listing agreement for adhesion to the Level 2 segment of the BM&FBOVESPA, and the rules and regulations of the Arbitration Regulation of the Market Arbitration Chamber. However, in specific situations, including whenever precautionary motions are needed for protection of rights, the dispute or controversy may have to be brought to a Brazilian court. If proceedings are brought in the courts of Brazil seeking to enforce our obligations in respect of the units or ADSs, we will not be required to discharge our obligations in a currency other than reais. Under Brazilian exchange control limitations and according to Brazilian laws, an obligation in Brazil to pay amounts denominated in a currency other than reais may be satisfied in Brazilian currency only at the exchange rate, as determined by the Brazilian Central Bank or competent court, in effect on the date the judgment is obtained, and such amounts are then adjusted to reflect exchange rate variations through the effective payment date. The then prevailing exchange may not afford non-Brazilian investors with full compensation for any claim arising out of or related to our obligations under the units or ADSs. Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights with respect to our units underlying the ADSs. Holders of ADSs will be unable to exercise the preemptive rights relating to our units underlying ADSs unless a registration statement under the Securities Act, is effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to the shares relating to these preemptive rights or to take any other action to make preemptive rights available to holders of units or ADSs. We may decide, in our discretion, not to file any such registration statement. If we do not file a registration statement or if we and the ADR depository decide not to make preemptive rights available to holders of units or ADSs, those holders may receive only the net proceeds from the sale of their preemptive rights by the depositary, or if they are not sold, their preemptive rights will be allowed to lapse. As a holder of ADSs you will have different shareholders’ rights than in the United States and certain other jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our by-laws and Brazilian corporate law, which may differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States or in certain other jurisdictions outside Brazil. Holders of our common shares are allowed to vote in our shareholders’ meetings, and each common share shall entitle its owner to one vote. Our preferred shares only allow voting rights in respect of a few matters. See “Item 10. Additional Information—B. Memorandum and Articles of Association”. Holders of ADSs are not our direct shareholders and will be unable to enforce directly the rights of shareholders under our bylaws and Brazilian corporate law. Holders of ADSs may exercise voting rights with respect to the units represented by ADSs only in accordance with the deposit agreement governing the ADSs. See “—Holders of ADSs may find it difficult to exercise voting rights at our shareholders’ meetings. Thus, under Brazilian corporate law, holders of the ADSs and the holders of just the preferred shares may have fewer and less well-defined rights to protect their interests relative to actions taken by our board of directors or the holders of our common shares than under the laws of other jurisdictions outside Brazil. Although Brazilian corporate law imposes restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation, the form of these regulations and the manner of their enforcement may differ from that in the U.S. securities markets or markets in certain other jurisdictions. In addition, in Brazil, self-dealing and the preservation of shareholder interests may be regulated differently, which could potentially disadvantage you as a holder of the preferred shares underlying ADSs. 23 Table of Contents 