Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is highly dependent upon our ability to identify and respond to new and changing fashion trends, customer preferences and other related factors. Fashion trends and customer tastes are volatile and can change rapidly. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to effectively identify and respond to changing fashion trends and consumer demands, and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings in a timely manner. A small number of our employees, including our divisional merchandise managers, our Senior Vice President and General Merchandise Manager and our President and Chief Executive Officer, are primarily responsible for performing this analysis and making related product purchase decisions. Failure of these employees to identify and react appropriately to new and changing trends or tastes or to accurately forecast demand for certain product offerings could lead to, among other things, excess inventories, markdowns and write-offs, which could materially adversely affect us and our brand image. Because our success depends significantly on our brand image, damage to our brand in particular would have a negative impact on us. There can be no assurance that our new product offerings will be met with the same level of acceptance as our past product offerings or that we will be able to adequately and timely respond to the preferences of our customers. The failure of any new product offerings could have a material adverse effect on our business plan, results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Our growth strategy depends upon our ability to successfully open and operate a significant number of new stores each year in a timely and cost-effective manner without affecting the success of our existing store base. Our net sales have grown appreciably during the past several years, primarily as a result of the opening of new stores. We intend to continue to pursue our growth strategy of opening new stores for the foreseeable future, and our future operating results will depend largely upon our ability to successfully open and operate a significant number of new stores each year in a timely and cost-effective manner, and to profitably manage a significantly larger business. We believe there is a significant opportunity to expand our store base from 535 locations as of January 30, 2010 to more than 1,000 stores within five years. In fiscal year 2010, we plan to open 100 new stores, and convert 30 stores. Our ability to successfully open and operate new stores depends on many factors including, among others, our ability to: • identify suitable store locations primarily in strip centers and regional malls, the availability of which is largely outside of our control; • negotiate acceptable lease terms, desired tenant allowances and assurances from operators and developers that they can complete the project, which depend in part on the financial resources of the operators and developers; • obtain or maintain adequate capital resources on acceptable terms; • source sufficient levels of inventory at acceptable costs; • hire, train and retain an expanded workforce of store managers and other personnel; • successfully integrate new stores into our existing control structure and operations, including information system integration; • maintain adequate distribution facility, information system and other operational system capabilities; • identify and satisfy the merchandise and other preferences of our customers in new geographic areas and markets; and • address competitive, merchandising, marketing, distribution and other challenges encountered in connection with expansion into new geographic areas and markets. In addition, as the number of our stores increases, we may face risks associated with market saturation of our product offerings. To the extent our new store openings are in markets where we have existing stores, we may experience reduced net sales in existing stores in those markets. Finally, there can be no assurance that any newly opened stores will be received as well as, or achieve net sales or profitability levels comparable to those of, our existing stores in the time periods estimated by us, or at all. If our stores fail to achieve, or are unable to sustain, acceptable net sales and profitability levels, our business may be materially harmed and we may incur significant costs associated with closing those stores. Our failure to effectively address challenges such as these could adversely affect our ability to successfully open and operate new stores in a timely and cost-effective manner, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our current expansion plans are only estimates. The actual number of new stores we open each year and actual number of suitable locations for our new stores could differ significantly from these estimates. Any failure to successfully open and operate new stores in the time frames and at the costs estimated by us could have a material adverse effect on our business and result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Our growth strategy will require us to expand and improve our operations and could strain our existing resources and cause the performance of our existing stores to suffer. Our operating complexity will increase as our store base grows. Such increased complexity will require that we continue to expand and improve our operating capabilities, and grow, train and manage our employee base. We will 14 Table of Contents need to continually evaluate the adequacy of our information and distribution systems and controls and procedures related to financial reporting. Implementing new systems, controls and procedures and any changes to existing systems, controls and procedures could present challenges we do not anticipate and could negatively impact us. In addition, we may be unable to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of personnel or successfully manage our growth; moreover, our planned expansion will place increased demands on our existing operational, managerial, administrative and other resources. These increased demands could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in the financial performance of our individual stores or our overall business. Our rapid growth also makes it difficult for us to adequately predict the expenditures we will need to make in the future. This growth may also place increased burdens on our vendors, as we will likely increase the size of our merchandise orders. In addition, increased orders may negatively impact our approach of generally striving to minimize the time from purchase order to product delivery, and may increase our markdown risk. If we do not make the necessary capital or other expenditures necessary to accommodate our future growth, we may not be successful in our growth strategy. We cannot anticipate all of the demands that our expanding operations will impose on our business, personnel, systems and controls and procedures, and our failure to appropriately address such demands could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business depends in part on a strong brand image, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, particularly in new markets where we have limited brand recognition, we may be unable to attract a sufficient number of customers to our stores or sell sufficient quantities of our products. We believe that the brand image we have developed has contributed significantly to the success of our business. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand image, particularly in new markets where we have limited brand recognition, is important to maintaining and expanding our customer base. Maintaining and enhancing our brand image may require us to make substantial investments in areas such as merchandising, marketing, store operations, community relations, store promotions and employee training, and these investments may not be successful. Moreover, we do not utilize some of the advertising and marketing media used by some of our competitors, including advertising through the use of newspapers, magazines, billboards, television and radio. We believe our customers rely on word-of-mouth and social media marketing. As a result, we employ a viral approach to marketing that is designed to capture the interest of our customers and drive them into our stores. For example, we offer promotions and contests through our website, we provide product knowledge, trend statements and fashion blogs through Facebook, MySpace, Twitter and YouTube and we send regular “e-blasts” to customers to highlight key trends, new products and promotional events. Because we do not rely on traditional advertising channels, such as newspaper or television advertisements, if our viral marketing efforts are not successful, there may be no immediately available alternative marketing channel for us to build awareness of our products in a manner that we think will be successful. This may impair our ability to successfully integrate new stores into the surrounding communities, to expand into new markets or to maintain the strength or distinctiveness of our brand image in our existing markets. In addition, if our viral marketing efforts are unsuccessful or we are otherwise required to use traditional advertising channels in our overall marketing strategy, then we will incur additional expenses associated with the transition to and operation of traditional advertising channels. Failure to successfully market our products and brand in new and existing markets could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. As of January 30, 2010, our 535 stores are located in 516 cities in 43 states. A primary component of our strategy involves expanding into new geographic markets. As we expand into new geographic markets, we may be unable to develop, and consumers in these markets may not accept, our brand without significant additional expenditures or at all. Maintaining and enhancing our brand image will depend largely on our ability to offer a differentiated in-store experience to our customers and to continue to provide high quality products, which we may not continue to do successfully. In addition, our brand image may also be adversely affected if our public image or reputation is tarnished by negative publicity. The strength of our brand image is also dependent on our ability to successfully market our brand and product offerings to our customer demographic. To the extent the store and merchandise preferences of these customers change, the popularity of our brand may decline and our business may suffer. 15 Table of Contents Our inability to maintain or improve levels of comparable store sales could cause our stock price to decline. We may not be able to maintain or improve the levels of comparable store sales that we have experienced in the recent past. Although we have sustained net sales growth since fiscal year 2005, our quarter-to-quarter comparable store sales have ranged from a decrease of 8.1% to an increase of 14.2%. We have recently experienced strong comparable store sales, which we may not be able to sustain. If our future comparable store sales decline or fail to meet market expectations, the price of our common stock could decline. In addition, the aggregate results of operations of our stores have fluctuated in the past and will fluctuate in the future. A variety of factors affect comparable store sales, including fashion trends, competition, current national and regional economic conditions, pricing, inflation, the timing of the release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, inventory shrinkage, the success of our multi-channel marketing programs, the timing and level of markdowns and weather conditions. In addition, many retailers have been unable to sustain high levels of comparable store sales growth during and after periods of substantial expansion. These factors may cause our comparable store sales results to be materially lower than in recent periods and our expectations, which could harm our business and result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Our business is sensitive to global, national and regional consumer spending and economic conditions. Consumer purchases of discretionary retail items and specialty retail products, including our products, may be affected by economic conditions such as employment levels, salary and wage levels, the availability of consumer credit, inflation, high interest rates, high tax rates, high fuel prices and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. These consumer purchases may decline during recessionary periods or at other times when disposable income is lower. These risks may be exacerbated for retailers such as us that focus on selling discretionary fashion merchandise. Consumer sentiment has recently declined and may decline further due to national and regional economic conditions, resulting in a general decrease in discretionary purchases. Our financial performance is particularly susceptible to economic and other conditions in regions or states where we have a significant number of stores, such as Texas or Georgia. Current economic conditions and further slowdown in the economy could further adversely affect strip center and regional mall traffic and new strip center and regional mall development and could materially adversely affect us and our growth plans. Our plans to convert our existing stores and expand our product offerings may not be successful, and implementation of these plans may divert our operational, managerial and administrative resources, which could impact our competitive position. In addition to our store growth strategy, we plan to convert many of our existing stores and grow our business by expanding some of our existing product categories, including our rue21 etc! girls jewelry and accessories category, our footwear category and our Carbon guys apparel and accessories category. These plans involve various risks discussed elsewhere in these risk factors, including: • implementation of these plans may be delayed or may not be successful; • we may be unable to identify locations for conversion of existing stores to our larger rue21 etc! layout; • if our expanded product offerings fail to maintain and enhance our distinctive brand identity, our brand image may be diminished and our sales may decrease; • if we fail to expand our infrastructure, including by securing desirable store locations at reasonable costs and hiring and training employees, we may be unable to manage our expansion successfully; and • implementation of these plans may divert management’s attention from other aspects of our business and place a strain on our management, operational and financial resources, as well as our information systems. In addition, our ability to successfully carry out our plans to expand our product offerings may be affected by, among other things, inventory shrinkage that can result from an inventory that consists of smaller and easily concealable items such as jewelry, economic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer preferences and style trends. Our expansion plans could be delayed or abandoned, could 16 Table of Contents cost more than anticipated or could divert resources from other areas of our business, any one of which could negatively impact our competitive position and reduce our revenue and profitability. We could face increased competition from other retailers that could adversely affect us and our growth strategy. We face competition in the specialty retail industry. We compete on the basis of a combination of factors, including among others things, price, breadth, quality and style of merchandise offered, in-store experience, level of customer service, ability to identify and respond to new and emerging fashion trends, brand image and scalability. We compete with a wide variety of large and small retailers for customers, vendors, suitable store locations and personnel. We face competition from major specialty apparel retailers that offer their own private label assortment, including Aéropostale, American Eagle Outfitters, Charlotte Russe, Forever 21, the Gap, J. Crew, Metropark, Old Navy and Wet Seal, as well as national off-price apparel chains such as TJX Companies, Burlington Coat Factory, and Ross Stores. We also face competition from department stores such as Dillard’s, and JC Penney, and large value retailers such as Walmart, Target and Kohl’s. We also compete against local off-price and specialty retail stores, regional retail chains, web-based retail stores and other direct retailers that engage in the retail sale of junior and young men’s apparel, accessories, footwear and similar merchandise, which offer a variety of products, including apparel, for the value-conscious consumer. The competitive landscape we face, particularly among specialty retailers, is subject to rapid change which can affect customer preferences. Many of our competitors have substantially greater name recognition as well as financial, marketing and other resources and therefore may be able to adapt to changes in customer preferences more quickly, devote greater resources to marketing and sale of their products, generate national brand recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. Many of our competitors also utilize advertising and marketing media which we do not, including advertising through use of newspapers, magazines, billboards, television and radio, which may provide them with greater brand recognition than we have. Our competitors may also sell certain products or substantially similar products through the Internet or through outlet centers or discount stores, increasing the competitive pricing pressure for those products. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. Our expansion into markets served by our competitors and entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could have a material adverse effect on us. Competitive forces and pressures may intensify as our presence in the retail marketplace grows. We do not possess exclusive rights to many of the elements that comprise our in-store experience and product offerings. Some specialty retailers offer a personalized shopping experience that in some ways is similar to the one we strive to provide to our customers. Our competitors may seek to emulate facets of our business strategy and in-store experience, which could result in a reduction of any competitive advantage or special appeal that we might possess. In addition, some of our product offerings are sold to us on a nonexclusive basis. As a result, our current and future competitors may be able to duplicate or improve upon some or all of our in-store experience or product offerings that we believe are important in differentiating our stores and our customers’ shopping experience, especially those competitors with significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than ours. If our competitors were to duplicate or improve upon some or all of our in-store experience or product offerings, our competitive position and our business could suffer. We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain or replace these individuals or recruit additional personnel, which could harm our business. We believe that we have benefited substantially from the leadership and experience of our key personnel, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Robert N. Fisch, and our Senior Vice President and General Merchandise Manager, Kim A. Reynolds. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects, as we may not be able to find suitable individuals to replace such personnel on a timely basis. In addition, any such departure could be viewed in a negative light by investors and analysts, which could cause our common stock price to decline. None of our employees are subject to non-compete obligations at the present time. In addition, except for our President and Chief Executive Officer and employees 17 Table of Contents subject to stock option award agreements, our employees are not subject to non-solicitation obligations. Moreover, we do not have employment agreements with any of our employees and we do not maintain “key man” or “key woman” insurance policies on the lives of these individuals, except for our President and Chief Executive Officer. As a result, their employment may be terminated by us or them at any time. We may consider entering into employment agreements or other long-term incentive programs with certain members of senior management. As our business expands, our future success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. We are also currently in search of qualified and experienced individuals to fill open senior management positions. There is a high level of competition for experienced, successful personnel in the retail industry. Our inability to meet our staffing requirements in the future could impair our growth and harm our business. Our ability to attract customers to our stores that are located in strip centers, regional malls and outlet centers depends heavily on the success of the shopping centers in which our stores are located, and any decrease in customer traffic in these shopping centers could cause our net sales to be less than expected. Our stores are located in strip centers, regional malls and outlet centers and our expansion is expected to be predominantly focused on strip centers and regional malls. Net sales at these stores are derived, to a significant degree, from the volume of traffic in those shopping centers and the surrounding area. Our stores benefit from the ability of shopping centers’ other tenants, particularly anchor stores such as Walmart, Target and Kohl’s, to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores and the continuing popularity of the strip centers, regional malls and outlet centers as shopping destinations. Our sales volume and traffic may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns nationally or regionally, high fuel prices, increased competition, changes in consumer demographics, a decrease in popularity of shopping centers or of stores in the shopping centers in which our stores are located, the closing of anchor stores important to our business, or a deterioration in the financial condition of shopping center operators or developers which could, for example, limit their ability to finance tenant improvements for us and other retailers. A reduction in consumer traffic as a result of these or any other factors, or our inability to obtain or maintain prominent store locations within shopping centers, could have a material adverse effect on us. Although we do not have specific information in respect to the strip centers, regional malls and outlet centers in which we locate or plan to locate our stores, we believe strip center, regional mall and outlet center vacancy rates have been rising and traffic has been decreasing nationally. We plan to use cash from operations to fund our expanding business and execute on our growth strategy and may require additional financing, which may not be available to us. We have grown rapidly, with our net sales increasing from $192.8 million for fiscal year 2005 to $525.6 million for fiscal year 2009. During fiscal year 2009, capital expenditures, net of tenant allowances, were $24.3 million, of which $9.2 million was related to the 88 new stores we opened during fiscal year 2009. In addition, we spent approximately $2.3 million to convert our existing stores during fiscal year 2009. We plan to continue our growth and expansion, including opening a significant number of additional stores, as well as converting existing stores. Our plans to expand our store base may not be successful and the implementation of these plans may not result in expected increases in our net sales even though they increase our costs. To support our expanding business and execute on our growth strategy, we will need significant amounts of cash from operations, including funds to pay our lease obligations, build out new store space, purchase inventory, pay personnel, further invest in our infrastructure and facilities, and pay for the increased costs associated with operating as a public company. In particular, payments under the operating leases associated with our stores and our distribution facility account for a significant portion of our operating expenses. We primarily depend on cash flow from operations and our senior secured credit facility to fund our business and growth plans. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund these activities, and sufficient funds are not otherwise available to us under our senior secured credit facility, we may need additional equity or debt financing. If such financing is not available to us on satisfactory terms, our ability to run and expand our business or to respond to competitive pressures would be limited and we could be required to delay, significantly curtail or eliminate planned store openings or operations or other elements of our growth strategy. If we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, your ownership may be 18 Table of Contents diluted. Our senior secured credit facility and any additional debt financing we may incur may impose upon us covenants that restrict our operations, including limitations on our ability to incur liens or additional debt, pay dividends, redeem our common stock, make certain investments and engage in certain merger, consolidation or asset sale transactions. Moreover, any borrowings under any future debt financing will require interest payments and need to be repaid or refinanced, and would create additional cash demands and financial risk for us, which could be exacerbated by then-existing business or prevailing financial market conditions. We have many important vendor relationships and our ability to obtain merchandise at competitive prices could suffer as a result of any deterioration or change in those relationships or events that adversely affect our vendors or their ability to obtain financing for their operations. We have many important vendor relationships that we believe provide us with a competitive advantage. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. We instead purchase all of our merchandise from third-party vendors. Over the last twelve months, we sourced a majority of our merchandise from our various merchandise vendors, with no single vendor accounting for more than 8% of our merchandise. Our financial performance depends in large part on our ability to purchase desired merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices from these and other vendors. In some cases, we obtain exclusive use of select products from our vendors for a period of time. Moreover, from time to time, some of our vendors, with their prior consent, allow us to return certain merchandise purchased from them. In addition, we are typically able to return merchandise that does not meet our preset specifications. However, we generally have no long-term purchase contracts or other contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products. Any of our vendors could discontinue supplying us with desired products in sufficient quantities for a variety of reasons. The benefits we currently experience from our vendor relationships could be adversely affected if our vendors: • choose to discontinue selling non-exclusive or exclusive products to us; • refuse to allow us to return merchandise purchased from them; • raise the prices they charge us; • sell similar or identical products to certain of our competitors, many of whom purchase products in significantly greater volume and, in some cases, at lower prices than we do; • enter into arrangements with competitors that could impair our ability to sell their products, including by giving our competitors exclusive licensing arrangements or exclusive access to styles, brands and products or limiting our access to such arrangements or styles, brands or products; • initiate or expand sales of their products through their own stores or through the Internet to the retail market and therefore compete with us directly; or • sell their products through outlet centers or discount stores, increasing the competitive pricing pressure we face. Some of our vendors are small and specialized with limited resources, production capacities and operating histories. Events that adversely affect our vendors could impair our ability to obtain desired merchandise in sufficient quantities. Such events include difficulties or problems associated with our vendors’ business, finances, labor, importation of products, costs, production, insurance and reputation. For example, some of our vendors are extended credit by units of the CIT Group, or CIT, and if CIT ceases to do business or materially decreases its level of credit to our vendors, we may be required to pay for merchandise from our vendors earlier than our historical practice. There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on acceptable terms or at all in the future, especially if we need significantly greater amounts of inventory in connection with the growth of our business. Any inability to acquire suitable merchandise in sufficient quantities and at acceptable prices, in particular exclusive merchandise, due to the loss of or a deterioration or change in our relationship with one or more key vendors, or events harmful to our vendors, may materially adversely affect us. 19 Table of Contents We are subject to risks associated with leasing substantial amounts of space, including future increases in occupancy costs. We do not own any real estate. Instead, we lease all of our store locations, our corporate headquarters in Warrendale, Pennsylvania and our distribution facility in Weirton, West Virginia. We lease our distribution facility from the State of West Virginia under a lease that expires in 2011, with two five-year renewal options. Although some of our leases are for ten-year periods, we typically occupy our stores under operating leases with terms of five years, with additional five-year renewal options. We have been able to negotiate favorable rental rates over the last year due in part to the state of the economy and high vacancy rates within some shopping centers; however, there is no guarantee that we will be able to continue to negotiate such favorable terms, and this can cause our occupancy rates to be higher in future years or may force us to close stores in desirable locations. Some of our leases have early cancellation clauses, which permit the lease to be terminated by us or the landlord if certain sales levels are not met in specific periods or if the strip center does not meet specified occupancy standards. In addition to future minimum lease payments, some of our store leases provide for additional rental payments based on a percentage of net sales, or “percentage rent,” if sales at the respective stores exceed specified levels, as well as the payment of common area maintenance charges, real property insurance and real estate taxes. Many of our lease agreements have defined escalating rent provisions over the initial term and any extensions. As we expand our store base, our lease expense and our cash outlays for rent under the lease agreements will increase. Our substantial operating lease obligations could have significant negative consequences, including: • requiring that a substantial portion of our available cash be applied to pay our rental obligations, thus reducing cash available for other purposes; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business or in the industry in which we compete; and • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing. Any of these consequences could place us at a disadvantage with respect to our competitors. We depend on cash flow from operations to pay our lease expenses and to fulfill our other cash needs. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to fund these expenses and needs, we may not be able to service our lease expenses, grow our business, respond to competitive challenges or to fund our other liquidity and capital needs, which would harm our business. Additional sites that we lease may be subject to long-term non-cancelable leases if we are unable to negotiate our current standard lease terms. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. Moreover, even if a lease has an early cancellation clause, we may not satisfy the contractual requirements for early cancellation under that lease. Our inability to enter into new leases or renew existing leases on terms acceptable to us or be released from our obligations under leases for stores that we close would materially adversely affect us. Our failure to find store employees that reflect our brand image and embody our culture, especially in light of our growth strategy, could adversely affect our business. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of store employees, including store managers, who understand and appreciate our corporate culture and customers, and are able to adequately and effectively represent our culture and establish credibility with our customers. The store employee turnover rate in the retail industry is generally high. If we are unable to hire and retain store personnel capable of consistently providing a high level of customer service, as demonstrated by their enthusiasm for our culture, understanding of our customers and knowledge of the merchandise we offer, our ability to open new stores may be impaired, the performance of our existing and new stores could be materially adversely affected and our brand image may be negatively impacted. We are also dependent upon temporary personnel to adequately staff our stores and distribution facility, with heightened dependence during busy periods such as the Easter and spring break 20 Table of Contents season, back-to-school season and the winter holiday season and when multiple new stores are opening. There can be no assurance that we will receive adequate assistance from our temporary personnel, or that there will be sufficient sources of suitable temporary personnel to meet our demand. Any such failure to meet our staffing needs or any material increases in employee turnover rates could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our net sales and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis or due to store events or promotions, leaving our operating results particularly susceptible to changes in seasonal shopping patterns and related risks. Our net sales are typically disproportionately higher in the second through the fourth fiscal quarters due to increased net sales during the summer and winter holiday seasons. Net sales during these periods cannot be used as an accurate indicator of annual results. Likewise, as is the case with many retailers of apparel, accessories and gifts, we typically experience lower net sales in the first fiscal quarter relative to other quarters. Any significant decrease in net sales during the summer or winter holiday seasons would have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, in order to prepare for these seasons, we must order and keep in stock significantly more merchandise than we carry during other parts of the year. This inventory build-up may require us to expend cash faster than is generated by our operations during this period. Any unanticipated decrease in demand for our products during these peak shopping seasons could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability, ability to repay any indebtedness and our brand image. In addition, we may experience variability in net sales as a result of a variety of other factors, including the timing of new store openings, store events, promotions or other marketing activities, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate on a quarterly basis and relative to corresponding periods in prior years. We only have one distribution facility and have not yet implemented disaster recovery procedures, and if we encounter difficulties associated with our distribution facility or if it were to shut down for any reason, we could face shortages of inventory that would have a material adverse affect on our business operations and harm our reputation. Our only distribution facility is located in Weirton, West Virginia. Our distribution facility supports our entire business. All of our merchandise is shipped to the distribution facility from our vendors, and then packaged and shipped from our distribution facility to our stores. The success of our stores depends on their timely receipt of merchandise. The efficient flow of our merchandise requires that we have adequate capacity in our distribution facility to support our current level of operations, and the anticipated increased levels that may follow from our growth plans. If we encounter difficulties associated with our distribution facility or if it were to shut down for any reason, including by fire, natural disaster, or a prolonged shutdown, we could face shortages of inventory, resulting in “out-of-stock” conditions in our stores, and incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing merchandise to our stores. This could have a material adverse effect on our business and harm our reputation. We are in the process of developing disaster recovery and business continuity plans that would allow us to be fully operational regardless of casualties or unforeseen events that may affect our corporate headquarters or distribution center. Without proper disaster recovery and business continuity plans, if we encounter difficulties with our distribution facility or other problems or disasters arise, we cannot ensure that critical systems and operations will be restored in a timely manner or at all and this would have a material adverse effect on our business. We have implemented an upgrade of our distribution facility during fiscal year 2009, which we believe will support our growth to approximately 1,300 stores with little additional capital investment. We may need to further increase the capacity of this facility to support our growth, which may require us to secure additional favorable real estate or may require us to obtain additional financing. Appropriate locations or financing for the purchase or lease of such additional real estate may not be available at reasonable costs or at all. Our failure to provide adequate order fulfillment and secure additional distribution capacity when necessary could impede our growth plans, and the further increase of this capacity would increase our costs. 21 Table of Contents We rely upon independent third-party transportation providers for substantially all of our product shipments. We currently rely upon independent third-party transportation providers for substantially all of our product shipments, including shipments to all of our stores. Our utilization of their delivery services for shipments, or those of any other shipping companies we may elect to use, is subject to risks, including increases in fuel prices, which would increase our shipping costs, and employee strikes and inclement weather, which may impact the shipping company’s abilities to provide delivery services that adequately meet our shipping needs. If we change shipping companies, we could face logistical difficulties that could adversely affect deliveries and we would incur costs and expend resources in connection with such change. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as those received from the independent third-party transportation providers we currently use, which in turn would increase our costs. We also face shipping and distribution risks and uncertainties associated with the upgrade of our distribution facility and related systems. Our ability to source our merchandise profitably or at all could be hurt if new trade restrictions are imposed or existing trade restrictions become more burdensome. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs, safeguards or quotas, on apparel and accessories could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us. Under the World Trade Organization, or WTO, Agreement, effective January 1, 2005, the United States and other WTO member countries removed quotas on goods from WTO members, which in certain instances affords us greater flexibility in importing textile and apparel products from WTO countries from which we source our merchandise. However, as the removal of quotas resulted in an import surge from China, the United States in May 2005 imposed safeguard quotas on seven categories of goods and apparel imported from China. Effective January 1, 2006, the United States imposed quotas on approximately twelve categories of goods and apparel from China, and may impose additional quotas in the future. These and other trade restrictions could have a significant impact on our sourcing patterns in the future. The extent of this impact, if any, and the possible effect on our purchasing patterns and costs, cannot be determined at this time. We cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our merchandise is currently manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the United States and foreign governments, nor can we predict the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as United States or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to us or may require us to modify our current business practices, any of which could hurt our profitability. We rely significantly on information systems and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of those systems could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. Our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory, and to ship products to our stores and our customers on a timely basis, depends significantly on our information systems, including our Island Pacific Inc., or Island Pacific, enterprise resource planning system and Epicor Software Corporation, or Epicor, including its Customer Relationship Management and store point-of-sale, or POS, system. We believe that utilizing this suite of products has allowed us to avoid the expense associated with internally developing and managing our own hardware and software systems. See “Business — Management Information Systems.” To manage the growth of our operations, personnel and real estate portfolio, we will need to continue to improve and expand our operational and financial systems, real estate management systems, transaction processing and internal controls and business processes; in doing so, we could encounter transitional issues and incur substantial additional expenses. If we are unable to maintain our current relationships with Island Pacific or Epicor, there is no assurance that we will be able to locate replacements on a timely basis or on acceptable terms. The failure of our information systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems or expanding them into new stores, or a breach in security of these systems, could adversely impact the promptness and accuracy of our merchandise distribution, transaction processing, financial accounting and reporting, the efficiency of our operations and our ability to properly forecast earnings and cash requirements. We could be required to make significant additional 22 Table of Contents expenditures to remediate any such failure, problem or breach. Such events may have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, we may now and in the future implement new systems to increase efficiencies and profitability. To manage growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve and expand our operational and financial systems, transaction processing, and internal controls and business processes. In doing any implementation or change to existing processes, we may encounter transitional issues and incur substantial additional expenses. System security risk issues could disrupt our internal operations or information technology services, and any such disruption could harm our net sales, increase our expenses, and harm our reputation and stock price. Experienced computer programmers and hackers, or even internal users, may be able to penetrate our network security or that of Island Pacific or Epicor and misappropriate our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. As a result, we could incur significant expenses addressing problems created by security breaches of our network. This risk is heightened because we collect and store customer information for marketing purposes. Any compromise of customer information could subject us to customer or government litigation and harm our reputation, which could adversely affect our business and growth. Moreover, we could incur significant expenses or disruptions of our operations in connection with system failures or breaches. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we procure from third parties, including that of Island Pacific or Epicor, may contain defects in design or manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the systems. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate security problems, viruses and bugs, or any problems associated with the outsourced services provided by Island Pacific or Epicor, could be significant, and such efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service that may impede our sales, distribution or other critical functions. We may suffer risks if our vendors fail to follow our vendor guidelines, including the risk we could acquire merchandise without full rights to sell it and the risks that a vendor or a manufacturer may fail to use acceptable labor practices, comply with other applicable laws or face interruption with its operations. We sometimes purchase merchandise from vendors who hold manufacturing and distribution rights under the terms of certain licenses or who themselves own intellectual property rights to the merchandise. In addition, we purchase merchandise that may be subject to design copyrights, design patents, or otherwise may incorporate protected intellectual property. We are not involved in the manufacture of any of the merchandise we purchase from our vendors for sale to our customers, and we do not independently investigate whether these vendors legally hold intellectual property rights to merchandise that they are manufacturing or distributing. As a result, we rely upon vendors’ representations set forth in our purchase orders and vendor agreements concerning their right to sell us the products that we purchase from them. If a third party claims to have licensing rights with respect to merchandise we purchased from a vendor, or we acquire unlicensed merchandise, we could be obligated to remove such merchandise from our stores, incur costs associated with destruction of such merchandise if the distributor or vendor is unwilling or unable to reimburse us, and be subject to liability under various civil and criminal causes of action, including actions to recover unpaid royalties and other damages and injunctions. Although our purchase orders and vendor agreement with each vendor require the vendor to indemnify us against such claims, a vendor may not have the financial resources to defend itself or us against such claims, in which case, we may have to pay the costs and expenses associated with defending such claim. Any of these results could harm our brand image and have a material adverse effect on our business and growth. Many of the products sold in our stores are manufactured outside of the United States, which may increase the risk that the labor, manufacturing safety and other practices followed by the manufacturers of these products may differ from those generally accepted in the United States. Although we require each of our vendors to sign a purchase order and vendor agreement that requires adherence to accepted labor practices and compliance with labor, manufacturing safety and other laws, we do not supervise, control or audit our vendors or the manufacturers that produce the merchandise we sell to our customers, and we have no direct relationship and very limited contact 23 Table of Contents with any of the manufacturers. We do reserve the right to conduct random testing of products and we use a third-party resource to conduct such random testing on designated categories of items to further address our concern for customer safety. However, some of our vendors are small and may not have adequate procedures in place to assure compliance with applicable labor, manufacturing safety and other laws. The violation of such labor, manufacturing safety or other laws by any of our vendors or these manufacturers, or the divergence of the labor practices followed by any of our vendors or these manufacturers from those generally accepted in the United States, could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt, the shipment of finished products to us or damage our brand image and/or subject us to boycotts by our customers or activist groups. In fiscal year 2009, substantially all of our merchandise was sourced from foreign factories, many of which were located in China and India. Any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from Asia, Central America or elsewhere, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, could materially harm our operations. We have no long-term merchandise supply contracts, and many of our imports are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of certain types of goods that may be imported into the United States from countries in Asia, Central America or elsewhere. We compete with other companies for production facilities and import quota capacity. Our vendors’ sourcing operations may also be hurt by political and financial instability, strikes, health concerns regarding infectious diseases in countries in which our merchandise is produced, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters that may occur in Asia, Central America or elsewhere or acts of war or terrorism in the United States or worldwide, to the extent these acts affect the production, shipment or receipt of merchandise. Our future operations and performance will be subject to these factors, which are beyond our control, and these factors could materially hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations or may require us to modify our current business practices or incur increased costs. There are claims made against us from time to time that can result in litigation or regulatory proceedings which could distract management from our business activities and result in significant liability or damage to our brand image. As a growing company with expanding operations, we increasingly face the risk of litigation and other claims against us. Litigation and other claims may arise in the ordinary course of our business and include employee claims, commercial disputes, intellectual property issues, product-oriented allegations and slip and fall claims. Often these cases raise complex factual and legal issues, which are subject to risks and uncertainties and which could require significant management time. Litigation and other claims against us could result in unexpected expenses and liability, as well as materially adversely affect our operations and our reputation. We may be subject to liability if we infringe upon the trademarks or other intellectual property rights of third parties. We may be subject to liability if we infringe upon the trademarks or other intellectual property rights of third parties. If we were to be found liable for any such infringement, we could be required to pay substantial damages and could be subject to injunctions preventing further infringement. Such infringement claims could subject us to boycotts by our customers or otherwise harm our brand image. In addition, any payments we are required to make and any injunctions we are required to comply with as a result of such infringement actions could adversely affect our financial results. Changes in laws, including employment laws and laws related to our merchandise, could make conducting our business more expensive or otherwise change the way we do business. We are subject to numerous regulations, including labor and employment, customs, truth-in-advertising, consumer protection and zoning and occupancy laws and ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of stores and warehouse facilities. If these regulations were to change or were violated by our management, employees, vendors, buying agents or trading companies, the costs of certain goods could increase, or we could experience delays in shipments of our goods, be 24 Table of Contents subject to fines or penalties, or suffer reputational harm, which could reduce demand for our merchandise and hurt our business and results of operations. In addition to increased regulatory compliance requirements, changes in laws could make ordinary conduct of our business more expensive or require us to change the way we do business. For example, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws could raise the wage requirements for certain of our employees, which would likely cause us to reexamine our entire wage structure for stores. Other laws related to employee benefits and treatment of employees, including laws related to limitations on employee hours, supervisory status, leaves of absence, mandated health benefits or overtime pay, could also negatively impact us, such as by increasing compensation and benefits costs for overtime and medical expenses. Moreover, changes in product safety or other consumer protection laws could lead to increased costs to us for certain merchandise, or additional labor costs associated with readying merchandise for sale. For example, in August 2008, the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, or CPSIA, was signed into law. The CPSIA imposes new requirements for the textile and apparel industries. These new requirements relate to all products marketed to children 12 years of age and under. Among other requirements, the Consumer Product Safety Commission requires certification and testing of certain regulated substances. We have engaged an accredited third party testing service to ensure our vendors’ compliance with consumer safety laws and to meet further product safety goals. It is often difficult for us to plan and prepare for potential changes to applicable laws and future actions or payments related to such changes could be material to us. We may incur indebtedness in the future and that indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and harm our ability to react to changes to our business. Any future indebtedness may contain covenants that limit our business activities. We may incur indebtedness in the future. Any increase in the amount of our indebtedness could require us to divert funds identified for other purposes for debt service and impair our liquidity position. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, we may need to refinance our debt, dispose of assets or issue equity to obtain necessary funds. We do not know whether we will be able to take any of such actions on a timely basis, on terms satisfactory to us or at all. Our level of indebtedness has important consequences to you and your investment in our common stock. For example, our level of indebtedness may: • require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our debt, which would reduce the funds available to us for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to pay future dividends; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, expansion plans and other investments, which may limit our ability to implement our business strategy; • result in higher interest expense if interest rates increase on any floating rate borrowings; • heighten our vulnerability to downturns in our business, the industry or in the general economy and limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the retail industry; or • prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities as they arise or successfully carrying out our plans to expand our store base and product offerings. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to make payments on our indebtedness or to fund our operations. Any indebtedness we incur may contain covenants that restrict our ability to incur additional debt, pay dividends, make acquisitions or investments or do certain other things that may impact the value of our common stock. 25 Table of Contents The terms of our senior secured credit facility may restrict our current and future operations, which would adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and to manage our operations. Our senior secured credit facility contains, and any future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things: • place liens on our or our direct or indirect subsidiaries’ assets; • make investments other than permitted investments; • incur additional indebtedness, subject to certain exceptions; • prepay or redeem certain indebtedness; • merge, consolidate and dissolve; • sell assets; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • change the nature of our business; • change our or our direct or indirect subsidiaries’ fiscal year or organizational documents; and • make restricted payments, including certain equity issuances and payment of dividends in a form other than in common stock. A failure by us to comply with the covenants or financial ratios contained in our senior secured credit facility could result in an event of default under our credit facility, which could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and manage our operations. A change in control of our company is also an event of default under our senior secured credit facility. Under our senior secured credit facility, a change in control of our company will occur if, among other things, any person or entity other than the funds advised by Apax Partners or us or our subsidiaries acquires, directly or indirectly, more than 35% of the outstanding equity interests of us or a greater percentage of the equity interest than is beneficially owned by the funds advised by Apax Partners. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior secured credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be due and payable, require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these amounts and exercise other remedies as set forth in the senior secured credit facility. If the indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay this indebtedness in full. We may be unable to protect our trademarks or other intellectual property rights. We are not aware of any claims of infringement upon or challenges to our right to use any of our brand names or trademarks in the United States. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks or proprietary rights of others. Also, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other proprietary rights or claim that we are infringing on their proprietary rights, and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In addition, we do not register our marks internationally, and the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Because we have not registered our trademarks in any foreign countries, international protection of our brand image and the use of these marks could be limited. Other entities may have rights to trademarks that contain portions of our marks or may have registered similar or competing marks for apparel and accessories in foreign countries in which our vendors source our merchandise. There may also be other prior registrations in other foreign countries of which we are not aware. Accordingly, it may be possible for others to enjoin the manufacture, sale or exportation of our branded goods to the United States. If we were unable to reach a licensing arrangement with these parties, our vendors may be unable to manufacture our products in those countries. Our inability to register our trademarks or purchase or license the right to use our trademarks or logos in these jurisdictions could limit our ability to obtain 26 Table of Contents supplies from less costly markets or penetrate new markets should our business plan change to include selling our merchandise in those jurisdictions outside the United States. We may be subject to unionization, work stoppages, slowdowns or increased labor costs, especially if the Employee Free Choice Act is adopted. Currently, none of our employees is represented by a union. However, our employees have the right at any time under the National Labor Relations Act to form or affiliate with a union. If some or all of our workforce were to become unionized and the terms of the collective bargaining agreement were significantly different from our current compensation arrangements, it could increase our costs and adversely impact our profitability. The Employee Free Choice Act of 2007: H.R. 800, or EFCA, was passed in the United States House of Representatives last year and the same legislation has been introduced again in 2009 as H.R. 1409 and S. 560. President Obama and leaders of Congress have made public statements in support of this bill. Accordingly, this bill or a variation of it could be enacted in the future and the enactment of this bill could have an adverse impact on our business, by making it easier for workers to obtain union representation and increasing the penalties employers may incur if they engage in labor practices in violation of the National Labor Relations Act. Maintaining and improving our financial controls and the requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management’s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and The NASDAQ Stock Market rules. The requirements of these rules and regulations will significantly increase our legal and financial compliance costs, including costs associated with the hiring of additional personnel, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly, and may also place undue strain on our personnel, systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act will require, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. We are in the initial stage of documenting our internal control procedures and have not begun testing these procedures in order to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404. Section 404, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm auditing our effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting beginning with fiscal year 2010. Both we and our independent registered public accounting firm will be testing our internal controls in connection with the Section 404 requirements and could, as part of that documentation and testing, identify material weaknesses, significant deficiencies or other areas for further attention or improvement. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may require specific compliance training for our directors, officers and employees, require the hiring of additional finance, accounting and other personnel, entail substantial costs to modify our existing accounting systems, and take a significant period of time to complete. Such changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 on a timely basis could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. We expect that various rules and regulations applicable to public companies will make it more difficult and more expensive for us to maintain directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to maintain coverage. If we are unable to maintain adequate directors’ and officers’ insurance, our ability to recruit and retain qualified officers and directors, especially those 27 Table of Contents directors who may be deemed independent for purposes of The NASDAQ Stock Market rules, will be significantly curtailed. Concentration of ownership among our existing executive officers, directors and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders own, in the aggregate, approximately 38.0% of our outstanding common stock and will own options that will enable them to own, in the aggregate, approximately 39.5% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions and will have significant influence over our management and policies. Two of the six members of our board of directors are principals of Apax Partners. Funds advised by Apax Partners can take actions that have the effect of delaying a change in control of us or discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares, which could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. These actions may be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. The concentration of voting power among funds advised by Apax Partners may have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. The interests of these stockholders may not be consistent with your interests as a stockholder. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation will provide that the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL, that relate to business combinations with interested stockholders will apply to us. Section 203 of the DGCL prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination transaction with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the interested stockholder became such unless the transaction fits within an applicable exemption, such as board approval of the business combination or the transaction which resulted in such stockholder becoming an interested stockholder. The provisions of Section 203 of the DGCL may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer or other transaction that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the doctrine of corporate opportunity does not apply to Apax Partners, funds advised by Apax Partners, or any of our directors who are employees of or affiliated with Apax Partners, acting on Apax Partners’ behalf, or funds advised by Apax Partners, in a manner that would prohibit them from investing or participating in competing businesses. To the extent they invest in such other businesses, Apax Partners or funds advised by Apax Partners may have differing interests than our other stockholders. We were a controlled company within the meaning of The NASDAQ Stock Market rules, and, as a result, relied upon exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to stockholders of other companies. Prior to the completion of a secondary offering of our common stock on February 26, 2010, funds advised by Apax Partners owned more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock and, as such, we were a controlled company under The NASDAQ Stock Market corporate governance listing standards. We ceased to be a controlled company on February 26, 2010 and have one year to comply with the NASDAQ Stock Market rules. As a controlled company, certain exemptions under The NASDAQ Stock Market listing standards exempted us from the obligation to comply with certain of the NASDAQ Stock Market corporate governance requirements, including the requirements: • that a majority of our board of directors consist of independent directors, as defined under the rules of The NASDAQ Stock Market; • that we have a corporate governance and nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and • that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities. 28 Table of Contents Accordingly, until we are required to comply with the corporate governance listing standards of the NASDAQ Stock Market, holders of our common stock will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of The NASDAQ Stock Market corporate governance requirements. Our stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance or other factors. Shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering in November 2009 at a price of $19.00 per share, and our common stock has subsequently traded as high as $32.82 during the period from our initial public offering to January 30, 2010. There has been a public market for our common stock for only a short period of time. An active, liquid and orderly market for our common stock may not be sustained, which could depress the trading price of our common stock. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital to continue to fund operations by selling shares and may impair our ability to acquire other companies by using our shares as consideration. In addition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: • fashion trends and changes in consumer preferences; • market conditions or trends in our industry or the economy as a whole and, in particular, in the retail sales environment; • the timing of new store openings and the relative proportion of our new stores to existing stores; • the performance and successful integration of any new stores that we open; • changes in our merchandise mix; • timing of promotional events; • changes in key personnel; • entry into new markets; • our levels of comparable store sales; • announcements by us or our competitors of new product offerings or significant acquisitions; • actions by competitors or other strip center, regional mall and outlet center tenants; • weather conditions, particularly during the holiday shopping period; • the level of pre-opening expenses associated with our new stores; • the level of expenses associated with our store conversions; • inventory shrinkage beyond our historical average rates; • changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other retail companies; • the public’s response to press releases or other public announcements by us or third parties, including our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and announcements relating to litigation; • the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; • changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our common stock, our failure to meet these estimates or failure of those analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our common stock; • ratings downgrades by any securities analysts who follow our common stock; • the development and sustainability of an active trading market for our common stock; • future sales of our common stock by our officers, directors and significant stockholders; 29 Table of Contents • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, acts of terrorism, natural disasters or responses to these events; and • changes in accounting principles. In addition, the stock markets, and in particular The NASDAQ Global Select Market, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many retail companies. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were involved in securities litigation, we could incur substantial costs and our resources and the attention of management could be diverted from our business. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions: • establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board of directors are elected at one time; • authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter, or repeal our amended and restated bylaws; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If no securities or industry analysts cover our company, the trading price for our common stock would be negatively impacted. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our common stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. The continued operation and expansion of our business will require substantial funding. Accordingly, we do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends on shares of our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, including our senior secured credit facility and other indebtedness we may incur, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board of directors deems relevant. 30 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 