ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The Company had a net loss during the last two full fiscal years, and losses may continue in the future. The Company had net losses of $710 thousand and $660 thousand for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The primary reasons for the losses in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 were impairment losses of trust preferred securities of $1.9 million, providing $1.3 million for loan losses, and an increase in non-interest expense of $567 thousand. See “—If the Company’s allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, earnings will decrease” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Comparison of Operating Results for the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2010 and 2009.” Any further losses in the future could negatively impact the value of the Company’s stock. Because the Company intends to increase its commercial real estate and commercial business loan originations, credit risk will increase and continued downturns in the local real estate market or economy could adversely affect earnings. The Company intends to continue its recent emphasis on originating commercial real estate and commercial business loans. Commercial real estate and commercial business loans generally have more risk than one- to four-family residential real estate loans. Because the repayment of commercial real estate and commercial business loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower’s properties or related businesses, repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the local real estate market or economy. Commercial real estate and commercial business loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of related borrowers. A downturn in the real estate market or the local economy could adversely affect the value of properties securing the loan or the revenues from the borrower’s business, thereby increasing the risk of nonperforming loans. As the Company’s commercial real estate and commercial business loan portfolios increase, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans may also increase. A significant portion of the commercial business loan portfolio is unseasoned. The Company has grown the commercial business loan portfolio to $26.2 million, or 9.4%, of gross loan portfolio, at June 30, 2010 from $4.6 million, or 1.5% of the gross loan portfolio, at June 30, 2007. The future performance of this part of the loan portfolio is difficult to assess due to the recent origination or purchase of these loans. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above the Company’s historical experience, which could adversely affect future performance. 20 Table of Contents If the Company’s allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, earnings will decrease. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of the Company’s borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of the Company’s loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, Management reviewed the loans and the loss and delinquency experience, and evaluated economic conditions. If the assumptions are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in the Company’s loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance could materially decrease the Company’s net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require the Company to increase the allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Higher FDIC insurance premiums and special assessments will adversely affect earnings. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule levying a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. The Company recorded an expense to reflect the special assessment. Any further special assessments that the FDIC levies will be recorded as an expense during the appropriate period. In addition, at that time, the FDIC increased the general deposit insurance assessment rate and, therefore, the Company’s FDIC insurance premium expense increased compared to prior periods. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the reserve ratio of the Deposit Insurance Fund to increase from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits by September 30, 2020, although banks with assets of less than $10 billion are exempt from any additional assessments to achieve the higher reserve ratio. The FDIC also adopted a rule pursuant to which all insured depository institutions were required to prepay their estimated assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. This pre-payment was due on December 30, 2009. The assessment rate for 2010 was based on the Company’s total base assessment rate for the third quarter of 2009, modified to assume that the assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009 had been in effect for the entire third quarter, and the assessment rate for 2011 and 2012 will be equal to the modified third quarter assessment rate plus an additional three basis points. In addition, each institution’s base assessment rate for each period will be calculated using its third quarter assessment base, adjusted quarterly for an estimated 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. The Company recorded the pre-payment as a prepaid expense, which will be amortized to expense over three years. The Company’s branch network expansion strategy may negatively affect the Company’s financial performance. The Company intends to expand its branch network over the next five years. This strategy may not generate earnings, or may not generate earnings within a reasonable period of time. Numerous factors contribute to the performance of a new branch, such as a suitable location, qualified personnel, and an effective marketing strategy. Additionally, a new branch takes time to originate sufficient loans and generate sufficient deposits to produce enough income to offset expenses, some of which, like salaries and occupancy expense, are relatively fixed costs. 21 Table of Contents Future changes in interest rates could reduce profits. The Company’s ability to make a profit largely depends on net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: • the interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and • the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. As a result of the Company’s historical focus on one- to four-family residential real estate loans, the majority of which have fixed interest rates, the interest rates earned on loans are generally fixed for a long period of time. Additionally, many of the Company’s securities in the investment portfolio have lengthy maturities with fixed interest rates. Like many savings institutions, the focus on deposit accounts as a source of funds, which have no stated maturity date or shorter contractual maturities, results in liabilities having a shorter duration than assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on assets, such as loans and investments, may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on liabilities, such as deposits. In a period of declining interest rates, the interest income earned on assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest paid on liabilities. Changes in interest rates creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that Management may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates earned on the prepaid loans or securities in a declining interest rate environment. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make the repayment of adjustable-rate loans difficult for borrowers. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” Concentration of loans in the Company’s primary market area, which has recently experienced an economic downturn, may increase risk. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in Howard and Montgomery Counties, Maryland and the District of Columbia, as nearly all of the Company’s loans are to customers in these markets. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in these markets have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans as well as the Company’s ability to originate new loans. As such, a further decline in real estate values in these markets would also lower the value of the collateral securing loans on properties in these markets. In addition, a continued weakening in general economic conditions, such as; inflation, recession, unemployment, or other factors beyond the Company’s control could negatively affect financial results. Financial reform legislation recently enacted by Congress will, among other things, eliminate the Office of Thrift Supervision, tighten capital standards, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase the Company’s costs of operations. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, investment, trading, and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act will eliminate the Company’s current primary federal regulator, the OTS, and require the Bank to be regulated by the OCC. The Dodd-Frank Act also authorizes the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to supervise and regulate all savings and loan holding companies like the Company, in addition to bank holding companies which it currently regulates. As a result, the Federal Reserve Board’s current regulations applicable to bank holding companies, including holding company capital requirements, will apply to savings and loan holding companies like the Company. These capital requirements are substantially similar to the capital requirements currently applicable to the Company, as described in “Supervision and Regulation—Federal Banking Regulation—Capital Requirements.” The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the Federal Reserve Board to set minimum capital levels for bank holding companies that are as stringent as those required for the insured depository 22 Table of Contents subsidiaries, and the components of Tier 1 capital would be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. Bank holding companies with assets of less than $500 million are exempt from these capital requirements. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the proceeds of trust preferred securities are excluded from Tier 1 capital unless such securities were issued prior to May 19, 2010 by bank or savings and loan holding companies with less than $15 billion of assets. The legislation also establishes a floor for capital of insured depository institutions that cannot be lower than the standards in effect today, and directs the federal banking regulators to implement new leverage and capital requirements within 18 months that take into account off-balance sheet activities and other risks, including risks relating to securitized products and derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets will be examined by their applicable bank regulators. The new legislation also weakens the federal preemption available for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce applicable federal consumer protection laws. Also effective one year after the date of enactment is a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act that eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse effect on interest expense. The legislation also broadens the base for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance assessments. Assessments will now be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions, and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2009, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2013. Lastly, the Dodd-Frank Act will increase stockholder influence over boards of directors by requiring companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and by authorizing the SEC to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded. The effect of new legislation and implementing regulations will have on community banks, including the lending and credit practices of such banks, is difficult to predict. Moreover, many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will not take effect for at least a year, and the legislation requires various federal agencies to promulgate numerous and extensive implementing regulations over the next several years. Although the substance and scope of these regulations cannot be determined at this time, it is expected that the legislation and implementing regulations, particularly those relating to the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, will increase operating and compliance costs. The Company is subject to extensive regulatory oversight. The Company is subject to extensive regulation and supervision. Regulators have intensified their focus on bank lending criteria and controls, and on the USA PATRIOT Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. There also is increased scrutiny of compliance practices generally and particularly with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. The Company’s failure to comply with these and other regulatory requirements could lead to, among other remedies, administrative enforcement actions and legal proceedings. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations are likely to have a significant effect on the financial services industry, which are likely to increase operating costs and reduce profitability. Regulatory or legislative changes could make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive, and could cause changes to or limits on some products and services, or the way business is operated. 23 Table of Contents Legislative or regulatory responses to perceived financial and market problems could impair the Company’s rights against borrowers. Current and future proposals made by members of Congress would reduce the amount distressed borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans, and may limit the ability of lenders to foreclose on mortgage collateral. If proposals such as these, or other proposals limiting the Bank’s rights as a creditor, were to be implemented, the Company could experience increased credit losses on loans and mortgage-backed securities, or increased expense in pursuing remedies as a creditor. Recent health care legislation could increase the Company’s expenses or require the Company to pass further costs on to employees, which could adversely affect the Company’s operations, financial condition, and earnings. Legislation enacted in 2010 requires companies to provide expanded health care coverage to their employees, such as affordable coverage to part-time employees and coverage to dependent adult children of employees. Companies will also be required to enroll new employees automatically into one of their health plans. Compliance with these and other new requirements of the health care legislation will increase employee benefits expense, and may require the Company to pass these costs on to employees, which could create a competitive disadvantage in hiring and retaining qualified employees. If the Company’s investment in the common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta is classified as other-than-temporarily impaired or as permanently impaired, the Company’s earnings and stockholders’ equity could decrease. The Company owns common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta. The Company holds this stock to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta’s advance program. There is no market for Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta common stock. Recent published reports indicate that certain member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank System may be subject to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In an extreme situation, the capital of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, the Company believes that there is a risk that the investment in Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta common stock could be impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment charge. Strong competition within the Company’s market areas may limit the Company’s growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In the Company’s market areas, the Company competes with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that the Company does not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively, which could affect the Company’s ability to grow and remain profitable on a long-term basis. The Company’s profitability depends upon the continued ability to successfully compete in the Company’s market areas. If interest rates paid on deposits increase or interest rates charged on loans decrease, net interest margin and profitability could be adversely affected. For additional information see “Business of OBA Bank—Competition.” 24 Table of Contents The Company’s stock value may be negatively affected by federal regulations that restrict takeovers. For three years following the Company’s stock offering, OTS regulations prohibit any person from acquiring or offering to acquire more than 10% of the Company’s common stock without the prior written approval of the OTS. The corporate governance provisions in the Company’s articles of incorporation and bylaws, OBA Bank’s Charter, and the corporate governance provisions under Maryland law, may prevent or impede the holders of the Company’s common stock from obtaining representation on the Company’s Board of Directors and may impede takeovers of the company that the board might conclude are not in the best interest of OBA Financial Services, Inc. or its stockholders. Provisions in the Company’s articles of incorporation and bylaws may prevent or impede holders of the Company’s common stock from obtaining representation on the Company’s Board of Directors and may make takeovers of OBA Financial Services, Inc. more difficult. For example, the Company’s Board of Directors is divided into three staggered classes. A classified board makes it more difficult for stockholders to change a majority of the directors because it generally takes at least two annual elections of directors for this to occur. The Company’s articles of incorporation include a provision that no person will be entitled to vote any shares of the Company’s common stock in excess of 10% of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock. This limitation does not apply to the purchase of shares by a tax-qualified employee stock benefit plan established by us. In addition, the Company’s articles of incorporation and bylaws restrict who may call special meetings of stockholders and how directors may be removed from office. The charter of OBA Bank generally provides that for a period of five years from the closing of the stock offering, no person other than OBA Financial Services, Inc. may directly or indirectly acquire or offer to acquire the beneficial ownership of more than 10% of any class of equity security of OBA Bank. In addition, during this five-year period, all shares owned over the 10% limit may not be voted on any matter submitted to stockholders for a vote. Additionally, in certain instances, the Maryland General Corporation Law requires a supermajority vote of stockholders to approve a merger or other business combination with a large stockholder, if the proposed transaction is not approved by a majority of the Company’s Board of Directors. The requirement to account for certain assets at estimated fair value and a proposal to account for additional financial assets and liabilities at estimated fair value, may adversely affect results of operations. The Company reports certain assets, including securities, at fair value, and a recent proposal would require the Company to report most of the financial assets and liabilities at fair value. Generally, for securities that are reported at fair value, the Company uses quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize observable market inputs to estimate fair value. Because these assets are carried on the Company’s books at their estimated fair value, the Company may record losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. Under proposed accounting requirements, the Company may be required to record reductions in the fair value of nearly all financial assets and liabilities (including loans) either through a charge to net income or through a reduction to accumulated other comprehensive income. Accordingly, the Company could be required to record losses on assets such as loans where the Company has no intention to sell the loan and expect the loan to be repaid in full. This could result in a decrease in net income, a decrease in stockholders’ equity, or both. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 25 Table of Contents 