D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company We may encounter difficulties in successfully opening new centers or renewing agreements for existing centers due to the limited number of suitable hospital partners and their potential ability to finance the purchase of medical equipment directly. Our growth was driven by our ability to expand our network of radiotherapy and diagnostic imaging centers by primarily entering into new agreements with top-tier hospitals in China, which are 3A hospitals, the highest ranked hospitals by quality and size in China as determined in accordance with the standards of the MOH. The agreements that hospitals enter into with us and our competitors are typically long-term in nature with terms of up to 20 years. As a result, in any locality or at any given time, there may only be a limited number of top-tier hospitals that have not yet entered into long-term agreements with us or our competitors and with which we are able to enter into new agreements. In addition, quotas imposed by government authorities as to the number and type of certain medical equipment that can be purchased, such as head gamma knife systems or PET-CT scanners, will further limit the number of top-tier hospitals that we or our competitors can enter into agreements within a given period. See “— Risks Related to Our Industry — Healthcare administrative authorities in China currently set procurement quotas for certain types of medical equipment.” Due to the limited supply of suitable top-tier hospitals and increasing competition, we may not be able to enter into agreements with new hospital partners or renew agreements with existing hospital partners on terms as favorable as those that we have been able to obtain in the past, or at all. Agreements with our hospital partners for three of the centers in our network, which accounted for 9.7% of our total net revenues in 2009, will expire in 2010. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources than us, which may provide them with an advantage in negotiating new agreements with hospitals, including our existing hospital partners. In addition, if adequate funding becomes available for hospitals to purchase medical equipment directly, hospitals may choose to purchase and manage radiotherapy and diagnostic imaging equipment on their own instead of entering into or renewing agreements with us or our competitors. If we are unable to compete effectively in entering into agreements with new hospital partners or to renew existing agreements on favorable terms, or at all, or if hospitals choose to purchase and manage their own medical equipment, our growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Finally, the development of new centers generally involves a ramp-up period during which time the operating efficiency of such centers may be lower than our established centers, which may negatively affect our profitability. 5 Table of Contents We have historically derived a significant portion of our revenues from centers located at a limited number of our hospital partners and regions in which we operate and our accounts receivable are also concentrated with a few hospital partners. We have historically derived a large portion of our total net revenues from a limited number of our partner hospitals. For the period from January 1, 2007 to October 30, 2007, the period from September 10, 2007 to December 31, 2007, for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, net revenues derived from our top five hospital partners amounted to approximately 61.6%, 64.7%, 37.8% and 33.6% of our total net revenues, respectively. For these same periods, three, three, one and one of our hospital partners, respectively, accounted for more than 10.0% of our total net revenues, and our largest hospital partner accounted for 21.7%, 24.2%, 13.5% and 10.1% of our total net revenues during those periods, respectively. In addition, centers located in Beijing, Henan province and Guangdong province accounted for 26.1%, 11.0% and 8.0% of our total net revenues in 2008, respectively, and 21.7%, 9.9% and 8.3% of our total net revenues in 2009, respectively. We may continue to experience such revenue concentration in the future. Due to the concentration of our revenues and dependence on a limited number of hospital partners, any one or more of the following events, among others, may cause material fluctuations or declines in our revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects: • reduction in the number of patient cases at the centers located at these partner hospitals; • loss of key experienced medical professionals; • decrease in the profitability of such centers; • failure to maintain or renew our agreements with these hospital partners; • any failure of these hospital partners to pay us our contracted percentage of any such center’s revenue net of specified operating expenses; • any regulatory changes in the geographic areas where our hospital partners are located; or • any other disputes with these hospital partners. In addition, three of our hospital partners, including one of our top five hospital partners, accounted for 5.8% of our total accounts receivable as of December 31, 2009. Any significant delay in the payment of such accounts receivable could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We conduct our business in a heavily regulated industry. The operation of our network of centers is subject to various laws and regulations issued by a number of government agencies at the national and local levels. Such rules and regulations relate mainly to the procurement of large medical equipment, the pricing of medical services, the operation of radiotherapy and diagnostic imaging equipment, the licensing and operation of medical institutions, the licensing of medical staff and the prohibition on non-profit civilian medical institutions from entering into cooperation agreements with third parties to set up for-profit centers that are not independent legal entities. Our growth prospects may be constrained by such rules and regulations, particularly those relating to the procurement of large medical equipment. If we or our hospital partners fail to comply with such applicable laws and regulations, we could be required to make significant changes to our business and operations or suffer fines or penalties, including the potential loss of our business licenses, the suspension from use of our medical equipment, and the suspension or cessation of operations at centers in our network. In addition, many of the agreements we have entered into with our hospital partners provide for termination in the event of major government policy changes that cause the agreements to become inexecutable. Our hospital partners may invoke such termination right to our disadvantage. 6 Table of Contents We depend on our hospital partners to recruit and retain qualified doctors and other medical professionals to ensure the high quality of treatment services provided in our network of centers. Our success is dependent in part upon our hospital partners’ ability to recruit and retain doctors and other medical professionals and on our and our hospital partners’ ability to train and manage these medical professionals. Although we may help our hospital partners to identify and recruit suitable, qualified doctors and other medical professionals, almost all of these medical professionals are employed by our partner hospitals rather than by us. As a result, we may have little control over whether such medical professionals will continue to work in the centers in our network. In addition, there is a limited pool of qualified medical professionals with expertise and experience in radiotherapy and diagnostic imaging in China, and our hospital partners face competition for such qualified medical professionals from other public hospitals, private healthcare providers, research and academic institutions and other organizations. In the event that our hospital partners fail to recruit and retain a sufficient number of these medical professionals, the resulting shortage could adversely affect the operation of centers in our network and our growth prospects. Any failure by our hospital partners to make contracted payments to us or any disputes over, or significant delays in receiving, such payments could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Most of the centers in our network are established through long-term lease and management services arrangements entered into with our hospital partners. We also provide management services to certain radiotherapy and diagnostic imaging centers through service-only agreements. Payments for treatment and diagnostic imaging services provided in the centers in our network are typically collected by our hospital partners who then pass on to us our contracted percentage of such revenue net of specific operating expenses on a periodic basis. Our total outstanding accounts receivable from our hospital partners were RMB92.8 million (US$13.6 million) and RMB111.3 million (US$16.3 million) as of December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 10.5% of our accounts receivable reported on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2008 were still outstanding. The average turnover days of the accounts receivable in 2009 were 127 days. Any failure by our hospital partners to pay us our contracted percentage, or any disputes over or significant delays in receiving such payments from our hospital partners, for any reason, could negatively impact our financial condition. Accordingly, any failure by us to maintain good working relationships with our hospital partners, or any dissatisfaction on the part of our hospital partners with our services, could negatively affect the operation of the centers and our ability to collect revenue, reduce the likelihood that our agreements with hospital partners will be renewed, damage our reputation and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations through new acquisitions or joint ventures or to successfully realize the anticipated benefits of any such acquisition or joint venture. We have historically complemented our organic development of new centers through the selective acquisition of complementary businesses or assets or the formation of joint ventures, and we may continue to do so in the future. For example, we recently experienced a significant growth in our business and increase in our results of operations as a result of our acquisition of China Medstar and other businesses. The identification of suitable acquisition targets or joint venture candidates can be difficult, time consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully capitalize on identified opportunities. We may not be able to continue to grow our business as anticipated if we are unable to successfully identify and complete potential acquisitions in the future. Even if we successfully complete an acquisition or establish a joint venture, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired businesses or assets or cooperate successfully with the joint venture partner. Integration of the acquired business or assets or cooperation with the joint venture partners can be expensive, time consuming and may strain our resources. Such integration or cooperation could also require significant attention from our management team, which may prevent key members of our management from focusing on other important aspects of our business. In addition, we may be unable to successfully integrate or retain employees or management of the acquired businesses or assets or retain the acquired entity’s patients, suppliers or other partners. Consequently, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions or joint ventures. Furthermore, future acquisitions or joint ventures could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity or equity-linked securities or the incurrence of debt, 7 Table of Contents contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in negotiating the conversion of a few of our cooperation agreements with our partner hospitals into lease and management agreements due to regulatory changes. Since the effectiveness in September 2000 of the Implementation Opinions on the Classified Management of Urban Medical Institutions, which was promulgated by the MOH, the State Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine, the Ministry of Finance and the National Development Reform Committee, or NDRC, non-profit civilian medical institutions are no longer permitted to enter into cooperation agreements or to continue to operate under existing cooperation agreements with third parties pursuant to which the parties jointly invest in or cooperate to set up for-profit centers or units that are not independent legal entities. However, according to the Opinions on Certain Issues Regarding Classified Management of Urban Medical Institutions issued in July 2001 by the same authorities, a non-profit civilian medical institution may, if lacking sufficient funds to purchase medical equipment outright, enter into a leasing agreement pursuant to which the medical institution leases medical equipment from its partner at market rates. To comply with these regulatory changes, we have transitioned most of our cooperation agreements with non-profit civilian hospitals to lease and management agreements. However, we are still negotiating the transition of our cooperation agreements relating to 13 of our centers located at eight of our partner hospitals, which centers’ combined revenues in 2008 and 2009 constituted approximately 17.3% and 6.0% of our total net revenues during those two periods, respectively. Although neither we nor any of our hospital partners have incurred any penalties to date for continuing to operate under cooperation agreements at these centers, there can be no assurance that we will not incur penalties in the future or that we will be able to successfully negotiate the conversion of these agreements. If we are unable to successfully negotiate the conversion of our cooperation agreements with these hospitals or if government authorities decide to assess penalties against either us or our hospital partners or to suspend the operation of these centers before we are able to complete the transition, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. We are not aware of any similar restriction imposed by military healthcare administrative authorities on the cooperation agreements that we have entered into with military hospitals, which are hospitals regulated by the military but most of which are otherwise the same as other government-owned civilian hospitals open to the public. Accordingly, we have maintained our cooperation agreements with nine military hospitals as of December 31, 2009. However, as military hospitals are also government-owned, if military hospitals are required by military healthcare administrative authorities to transition away from cooperation agreements in the future, we will have to negotiate a similar conversion of the agreements with our military hospital partners. If we are unable to successfully negotiate lease and management or other alternative agreements with our existing military hospital partners on terms not less favorable than those under our cooperation agreements, our business, financial condition and results of operation may be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that government authorities will not interpret regulations differently from us to find that our lease and management agreements are still not in compliance with relevant regulations. Based on the opinion of our PRC counsel, Jingtian & Gongcheng Attorneys At Law, we believe that our lease and management agreements with civilian public hospital partners, which terms continue to provide that our revenues from hospital-based centers are to be calculated based on contracted percentages of each center’s revenue net of specified operating expenses, are in compliance with the Implementation Opinions on the Classified Management of Urban Medical Institutions and the Opinions on Certain Issues Regarding Classified Management of Urban Medical Institutions. However, we and our PRC counsel cannot assure you that the MOH or other competent authorities will not interpret these regulations differently to find that our lease and management agreements are still not in compliance with such regulations, in which instance, such authorities could, among other things, declare our lease and management agreements to be void, order our civilian hospital partners to terminate such agreements with us, order our civilian hospitals partners to suspend or cease operation of the centers governed by such agreements, suspend the use of our medical equipment, or confiscate revenues generated under the noncompliant agreements. Furthermore, we may have to change our business model which may not be successful. If any of the above were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents There may be corrupt practices in the healthcare industry in China, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage if our competitors engage in such practices and may harm our reputation if our hospital partners and the medical personnel who work in our centers, over whom we have limited control, engage in such practices. There may be corrupt practices in the healthcare industry in China. For example, in order to secure agreements with hospital partners or to increase direct sales of medical equipment or patient referrals, our competitors, other service providers or their personnel or equipment manufacturers may engage in corrupt practices in order to influence hospital personnel or other decision-makers in violation of the anti-corruption laws of China and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA. We have adopted a policy regarding compliance with the anti-corruption laws of China and the FCPA to prevent, detect and correct such corrupt practice. However, as competition persists and intensifies in our industry, we may lose potential hospital partners, patient referrals and other opportunities to the extent that our competitors engage in such practices or other illegal activities. In addition, our partner hospitals or the doctors or other medical personnel who work in our network of centers may engage in corrupt practices without our knowledge to procure the referral of patients to centers in our network. Although our policies prohibit such practices, we have limited control over the actions of our hospital partners or over the actions of the doctors and other medical personnel who work in our network of centers since they are not employed by us. If any of them were to engage in such illegal practices with respect to patient referrals or other matters, we or the centers in our network may be subject to sanctions or fines and our reputation could be adversely affected by any negative publicity stemming from such incidents. We are planning to establish and operate specialty cancer hospitals that will be majority owned by us and are subject to significant risks. As part of our growth strategy we plan to establish specialty cancer hospitals that will focus on providing radiotherapy services as well as diagnostic imaging services, chemotherapy and surgery. In addition, at the Beijing Proton Medical Center, one of our planned specialty cancer hospitals, we plan to offer proton beam therapy treatment services with which we have had no prior experience. Since we do not have experience in operating our own specialty cancer hospital, or in providing many of the services that we plan to offer in our specialty cancer hospitals, such as chemotherapy treatments, surgical procedures or proton beam therapy, we may not be able to provide as high a level of service quality for those treatment options as for the other treatments that are currently offered at our network of centers, which may result in damage to our reputation and our future growth prospects. In addition, we may not be successful in recruiting qualified medical professionals to effectively provide the services that we intend to offer in our specialty cancer hospitals. Furthermore, although our brand name is well known among referring doctors, patients are not currently familiar with our brand as we do not carry our own brand name in our network of centers under our existing agreements with our hospital partners. Therefore, when we establish our own specialty cancer hospitals under our brand name, we may not be able to immediately gain wide acceptance among patients and, thus, may be unable to attract a sufficient number of patients to our new hospitals. We could also face increased exposure to liability claims at our specialty cancer hospitals, including claims for medical malpractice. We may need to obtain medical malpractice insurance and other types of insurance that we do not currently carry, each of which could increase our expenses and decrease our profitability. In addition, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be available at a reasonable price or that we will be able to maintain adequate levels of liability insurance coverage, if at all. In addition, our specialty cancer hospitals will also be required to obtain various quotas, permits and authorizations, which are currently the responsibility of our hospital partners under our existing agreements. See “— Risks Related to Our Industry — Healthcare administrative authorities in China currently set procurement quotas for certain types of medical equipment” and “— Risks Related to Our Industry — We or our hospital partners may be unable to obtain various permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities in China relating to our medical equipment, which could delay the installation or interrupt the operation of our equipment.” Finally, if our plans change for any reason or the anticipated timetable or costs of development change for our specialty cancer hospitals, our business and future prospects may be negatively impacted. There can be no assurance that the planned specialty cancer hospitals will be completed or that, if completed, they will achieve sufficient patient cases to generate positive operating margins. In addition, as our currently planned specialty cancer hospitals are to be established through joint ventures with other parties, we also may not be successful in 9 Table of Contents cooperating with such joint venture partners in operating our specialty cancer hospitals. See "— Risk Factors Related to Our Business — We may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations through any new acquisitions or joint ventures, which we may not be able to successfully execute.” We rely on the doctors and other medical professionals providing services in our network of centers to make proper clinical decisions and we rely on our hospital partners to maintain proper control over the clinical aspects of the operation of our network of centers. We rely on the doctors and other medical professionals who work in our network to make proper clinical decisions regarding the diagnosis and treatment of their patients. Although we develop treatment protocols for doctors, provide periodic training for medical professionals in our network of centers on proper treatment procedures and techniques and host seminars and conferences to facilitate consultation among doctors providing services in our network of centers, we ultimately rely on our hospital partners to maintain proper control over the clinical activities of each center and over the doctors and other medical professionals who work in such centers. Any incorrect clinical decisions on the part of doctors and other medical professionals or any failure by our hospital partners to properly manage the clinical activities of each center may result in unsatisfactory treatment outcomes, patient injury or possibly death. Although part of the liability for any such incidents may rest with our partner hospitals and the doctors and other medical professionals they employ, we may be made a party to any such liability claim which, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs for us, harm our reputation, and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The centers in our network have experienced claims as to a limited number of medical disputes since they commenced operations. As of December 31, 2009, three centers in our network have agreed to pay an aggregate amount of approximately RMB100,000 (US$14,650) to settle such claims. Any expenses resulting from such liability claims are generally required to be accounted for as expenses of the relevant center, which could reduce our revenue derived from such center. We do not carry malpractice or other liability insurance at many of the centers in our network, and at those centers that do carry such insurance, it may not be sufficient to cover any potential liability that may result from such claims. For our specialty cancer hospitals that are currently under development, we will likely face direct liability claims for any such incidents. Any failures or defects of the medical equipment in our network of centers or any failure of the medical personnel who work at the centers in our network to properly operate our medical equipment could subject us to liability claims and we may not have sufficient insurance to cover any potential liability. Our business exposes us to liability risks that are inherent in the operation of complex medical equipment, which may contain defects or experience failures. We rely to a large degree on equipment manufacturers to provide technical training to the medical technicians who work in our network of centers on the proper operation of our complex medical systems. If such medical technicians are not properly and adequately trained by the equipment manufacturers or by us, they may misuse or ineffectively use the complex medical equipment in our network of centers. These medical technicians may also make errors in the operation of the complex medical equipment even if they are properly trained. Any medical equipment defects or failures or any failure of the medical personnel who work in the centers to properly operate the medical equipment could result in unsatisfactory treatment outcomes, patient injury or possibly death. Although the liability for any such incidents rests with the equipment manufacturers or the medical technicians, we may be made a party to any such liability claim which, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs for us, harm our reputation, and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any expenses resulting from such liability claims may be accounted for as expenses of the center, which could reduce our revenue derived from such center. We do not carry product liability insurance at any of the centers in our network. Any downtime for maintenance and repair of our medical equipment could lead to business interruptions that could be expensive and harmful to our reputation and to our business. Significant downtime associated with the maintenance and repair of medical equipment used in our network of centers would result in the inability of the centers to provide radiotherapy treatment or diagnostic imaging services to patients in a timely manner. We primarily rely on equipment manufacturers or third party service companies for maintenance and repair services. The failure of manufacturers or third party service companies to provide timely repairs on our equipment could interrupt the operation of centers in our network for 10 Table of Contents extended periods of time. Such extended downtime could result in lost revenues for us and our partner hospitals, dissatisfaction on the part of patients and our partner hospitals and damage to the reputation of the centers in our network, our partner hospitals and our company. We rely on a limited number of equipment manufacturers. Much of the medical equipment used in our network of centers is highly complex and is produced by a limited number of equipment manufacturers. These equipment manufacturers provide training on the proper operation of our medical equipment to the medical personnel who work in the centers in our network as well as maintenance and repair services for such equipment. Any disruption in the supply of the medical equipment or services from these manufacturers, including as a result of failure by any such manufacturers to obtain the requisite third-party consents and licenses for the intellectual property used in the equipment they manufacture, may delay the development of new centers or negatively affect the operation of existing centers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may fail to protect our intellectual property rights or we may be exposed to misappropriation and infringement claims by third parties, either of which may have a material adverse effect as to our business. We have applied in the PRC for the registration of our trademark “Medstar” to protect our corporate name. As of December 31, 2009, we also owned the rights to 146 domain names that we use in connection with the operation of our business. We believe that such domain names provide us with the opportunity to enhance our marketing efforts for the treatments and services provided in our network and enhance patients’ knowledge as to cancers, the benefits of radiotherapy and the various treatment options that are available. Our failure to protect our trademark or such domain names may undermine our marketing efforts and result in harm to our reputation and the growth of our business. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that the equipment manufacturers from whom we purchase equipment have all requisite third-party consents and licenses for the intellectual property used in the equipment they manufacture. As a result, those equipment manufacturers may be exposed to risks associated with intellectual property infringement and misappropriation claims by third parties which, in turn, may subject us to claims that the equipment we have purchased infringes the intellectual property rights of third parties. We have in the past been subject to, and may in the future continue to be subject to, such claims by third parties. As a result, we may be named as a defendant in, or joined as a party to, any intellectual property infringement proceedings against equipment manufacturers relating to any equipment we have purchased. If a court determines that any equipment we have purchased from our equipment manufacturers infringes the intellectual property rights of any third party, we may be required to pay damages to such third party and the centers in our network may be prohibited from using such equipment, either of which could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any such proceeding may also be costly to defend and may divert our management’s attention and other resources away from our business. Furthermore, the standard equipment purchase agreements that we enter into with our equipment manufacturers typically do not contain indemnification provisions for intellectual property claims. Although we have obtained specific indemnity from one equipment manufacturer for a patent infringement claim, there can be no assurance that we would be able to recover any damages, lost profits or litigation costs resulting from any intellectual property infringement claims or proceedings in which we are named as a party. On December 4, 2009, we received a notice that a legal proceeding was initiated against us that alleges a gamma knife system currently in use in certain centers in our network was previously found to infringe upon the patent of a third party. This claim relates to a patent used in the head gamma knife system manufactured by one of our equipment manufacturers, Our Medical New Technology Co., Ltd., or Our Medical New Technology. A previous legal proceeding involving such patent was initiated in June 2000 against Our Medical New Technology, its related parties and our subsidiary, AMS. The relevant PRC court determined in 2004 that all head gamma knife systems manufactured by Our Medical New Technology after the patent owner began to contest the use of such patent on December 23, 1999 were manufactured without the requisite consent to use the patent in question. The relevant PRC court also ordered the use of such equipment to cease. We are currently assessing the validity and the potential impact of the claim filed against us. Based on our current assessment, we have identified one head gamma knife system in one of the centers in our network that may be subject to such claim. Revenue derived from such 11 Table of Contents center represented approximately 1.5% and 0.9% of our total net revenues in 2008 and 2009, respectively. Our Medical New Technology, the manufacturer of the head gamma knife system that may be subject to this claim, has agreed to indemnify us for any damages or losses that we may incur from any intellectual property infringement by such system. We are also continuing to assess whether there is any other medical equipment in our network that might be subject to this claim. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and other key personnel, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. We depend on key members of our management team, which includes Mr. Jianyu Yang, a director and our chief executive officer and president, Dr. Zheng Cheng, a co-chairman of our board of directors and our chief operating officer, Mr. Steve Sun, a co-chairman of our board of directors and our chief financial officer, Mr. Jing Zhang, a director and our executive president, Mr. Yaw Kong Yap, a director and our financial controller, and Mr. Boxun Zhang, our corporate vice president, as well as other key personnel for the continued growth of our business. The loss of any of these members of our management team or other key employees could delay the implementation of our business strategy and adversely affect our operations. Our future success will also depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified management personnel. The process of hiring suitable, qualified personnel is often lengthy and such talented and highly qualified management personnel is often in short supply in China. If our recruitment and retention efforts are unsuccessful in the future, it may be more difficult for us to execute our business strategy. Although none of the key members of our management team is nearing retirement age in the near future and we are not aware of any key members of our management team or other key personnel planning to retire or leave us, if one or more of such personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all. Consequently, our business may be severely disrupted, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers. In addition, we do not maintain key employee insurance. We have entered into employment agreements and confidentiality agreements with all of the key members of our management team and other key personnel. However, if any disputes arise between any of our key members of our management team or other key personnel and us, we cannot assure you, in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system, the extent to which any of these agreements could be enforced in China, where all key members of our management team and other key personnel reside and hold some of their assets. See “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us.” Our reported earnings could decline if we recognize impairment losses on intangible assets and goodwill relating to the OMS reorganization and other acquisitions. As a result of the OMS reorganization in October 2007 and our acquisitions of China Medstar and other businesses in 2008, we have recorded goodwill as well as certain acquired intangibles, which intangibles are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives. In addition, we may continue to selectively acquire complementary businesses in the future that may result in increases in recorded goodwill and acquired intangibles. Such goodwill is tested for impairment by us annually or more frequently if an event occurs or a circumstance develops that would require more frequent assessments. Examples of such events or circumstances include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in the legal or business climate, an adverse regulatory action or unanticipated competition. In the future, we could recognize impairment losses on the intangible assets and goodwill, which could result in a charge to our reported results of operations and cause our reported earnings to decline. We do not have insurance coverage for some of our medical equipment and do not carry any business interruption insurance. We do not have insurance for six units of our medical equipment, which are electroencephalography and thermotherapy equipment from which centers we derived less than 1.0% of our total revenues in each of 2008 and 2009. Damage to, or the loss of, such uninsured equipment due to natural disasters, such as fires, floods or earthquakes, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. In addition, the operations in our network of centers may be particularly vulnerable to natural disasters that disrupt transportation since many patients travel long distances to reach such centers. Also, we do not have any business interruption insurance. Any business disruption could result in substantial expenses and diversion of resources and could have a 12 Table of Contents material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, the strong earthquake that struck Sichuan Province in May 2008 resulted in the suspension of operations at three of our centers in Chengdu, the provincial capital of Sichuan Province, for approximately one month due to the diversion of hospital resources toward the treatment of earthquake victims. Most of our radiotherapy and diagnostic imaging equipment contains radioactive materials or emits radiation during operation. Most of the radiotherapy and diagnostic imaging equipment in our network of centers, including gamma knife systems, proton beam therapy systems, linear accelerators and PET-CT systems, contain radioactive materials or emit radiation during operation. Radiation and radioactive materials are extremely hazardous unless properly managed and contained. Any accident or malfunction that results in radiation contamination could cause significant harm to human beings and could subject us to significant legal expenses and result in harm to our reputation. Although equipment manufacturers and our hospital partners and their staff may bear some or all of the liability and costs associated with any accidents or malfunctions, if we are found to be liable in any way we may also face severe fines, legal reparations and possible suspension of our operating permits, all of which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Also, certain of our medical equipment require the periodic replacement of their radioactive source materials. We do not directly oversee the handling of radioactive materials during the replacement or reloading process or during the disposal process, and any failure on the part of our hospital partners to handle or dispose of such radioactive materials in accordance with PRC laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on the operation of such centers. Any change in the regulations governing the use of medical data in China, which are still in development, could adversely affect our ability to use our medical data and could potentially subject us to liability for our past use of such medical data. The centers in our network collect and store medical data from radiotherapy treatments for purposes of analysis, use in training doctors providing services in our network and improving the effectiveness of the treatments provided in our network of centers. In addition, doctors in our network utilize such medical data to conduct clinical research. We do not make any such medical data public and only keep such medical data for our internal use and for research purposes by doctors upon the approval of our medical affairs department and our hospital partners. Chinese regulations governing the use of such medical data are still in development but currently do not impose any restrictions on the internal use of such data by us as long as we have the permission of our hospital partners who have ownership of such data. Any change in the regulations governing the use of such medical data could adversely affect our ability to use such medical data and could subject us to liability for past use of such data, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. Our directors, executive officers and significant shareholders have substantial influence over our company and their interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. As of the date of this annual report, our directors, executive officers and significant shareholders beneficially owned approximately 44.9% of our outstanding share capital. As such, they have substantial influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our third amended and restated articles of association limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred 13 Table of Contents shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADS or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or to make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors issues preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be adversely affected. We may be unable to establish and maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, and as a result we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Prior to the listing of our ADSs, we were a private company with limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal controls and procedures. In connection with the audits of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009, our independent registered public accounting firm communicated to us two material weaknesses and certain significant and other deficiencies in our internal control procedures, which could adversely affect our ability to initiate, authorize, record, process and report financial data reliably in accordance with U.S. GAAP. As a result, there is more than a remote likelihood that a more than inconsequential misstatement of our consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Specifically, the material weaknesses identified were (i) related to us not having a sufficient number of professionals in our financial accounting and reporting group with the requisite knowledge of U.S. GAAP and SEC reporting requirements and (ii) the significant amount of advances made to hospitals held and disbursed by employees without evidence of a formal review of the details of such disbursement in advance as to the use of such monies. The significant deficiencies identified consist of (i) a lack of a formalized and timely assessment process for its accounts receivable, (ii) a lack of formal documentation for cash advances to certain of our customer hospitals or suppliers, (iii) a lack of documentation of our growing business investments with Chang’an Hospital and the assessment of how each of the historical contractual arrangements will be affected by subsequent follow-on arrangements, (iv) a lack of a formal policy requiring management to keep formal documentation of the feasibility and profitability assessment of each project, (v) a lack of standard control policies and procedures in connection with the drafting, approval and management of our business contracts, and (vi) a lack of a formal control policy requiring management to develop and retain supporting documents for service rendered. We are in the process of remediating such material weakness and significant and other deficiencies. However, the remedial measures that we have taken or intend to take may not fully address such material weakness and significant and other deficiencies, and additional material weakness and significant and other deficiencies, in our internal control over financial reporting may be identified in the future. We are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, which require that we include a management assessment of, and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm on, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report on Form 20-F beginning with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2010. During the assessment process that we will undertake for compliance with Section 404, we may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by Section 404, and our management may conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. In addition, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may determine that our internal controls over financial reporting is not effective and may issue an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our failure to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could increase the risk of material misstatements in our financial statements and cause failure to meet our financial and other reporting obligations, which would likely cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and lead to a significant decline in the trading price of our ADSs. In addition, unlike most companies, our internal controls over financial reporting will need to be designed to cover a significant number of our hospital partners located in cities throughout China due to the fact that we are heavily dependent on timely and accurate receipt of key financial information from our hospital partners so we can complete our financial reporting process. We may identify control deficiencies as a result of the assessment process that we will undertake to comply with Section 404, including but not limited to internal audit resources and formalized and documented closing and reporting processes. We plan to remediate control deficiencies identified in 14 Table of Contents time to meet the deadline imposed by the requirements of Section 404 but we may be unable to do so. Our failure to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial reporting processes, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. We may require additional funding to finance our operations, which financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, and if we are able to raise funds, the value of your investment in us may be negatively impacted. Our business operations may require expenditures that exceed our available capital resources. To the extent that our funding requirements exceed our financial resources, we will be required to seek additional financing or to defer planned expenditures. There can be no assurance that we can obtain these bank loans or additional funds on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, our ability to raise additional funds in the future is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including, but not limited to: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for capital raising and debt financing activities; and • economic, political and other conditions in China and elsewhere. Furthermore, if we raise additional funds through equity or equity-linked financings, your equity interest in our company may be diluted. Alternatively, if we raise additional funds by incurring debt obligations, we may be subject to various covenants under the relevant debt instruments that may, among other things, restrict our ability to pay dividends or obtain additional financing. Servicing such debt obligations could also be burdensome to our operations. If we fail to service such debt obligations or are unable to comply with any of these covenants, we could be in default under such debt obligations and our liquidity and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We have granted security interests over certain of our medical equipment in order to secure bank borrowings. Any failure to satisfy our obligations under such borrowings could lead to the forced sale of such equipment. In order to secure bank loans in an aggregate amount of RMB112.8 million (US$16.5 million) and RMB149.9 million (US$22.0 million) as of December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively, we have granted security interests in equipment with a net carrying value of RMB81.6 million (US$12.0 million) and RMB155.8 million (US$22.8 million), respectively, representing 23.4% and 27.2% of the net value of our net property, plant and equipment of RMB349.1 million (US$51.1 million) and RMB573.0 million (US$84.0 million) as of December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively. Any failure on our part to satisfy our obligations under these loans could lead to the forced sale of our medical equipment that secure these loans, the suspension of the operation of the centers in which such medical equipment is used, or otherwise damage our relationship with our hospital partners and our reputation in the medical community, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We may grant additional security interests in our equipment in order to secure future bank borrowings. Our business may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi as a significant portion of our capital expenditures relates to the purchase of medical equipment priced in U.S. dollars. A significant portion of our capital expenditures relates to the purchase of radiotherapy and diagnostic imaging equipment from manufacturers outside of China. As the price of such equipment is denominated almost exclusively in U.S. dollars, any depreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could cause a significant increase our capital expenditures, reduce the profitability of our network of centers and have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents If we grant employee share options, restricted shares or other equity incentives in the future, our net income could be adversely affected. We adopted our 2008 share incentive plan on October 16, 2008, which was subsequently amended on November 17, 2009. We are required to account for share-based compensation in accordance with ASC 718-10, Compensation-Stock Compensation, Overall (formerly referenced as Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Statement No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment), which requires a company to recognize, as an expense, the fair value of share options and other equity incentives to employees based on the fair value of equity awards on the date of the grant, with the compensation expense recognized over the period in which the recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the equity award. On November 27, 2009, we granted options to purchase an aggregate of 4,765,800 ordinary shares under our 2008 share incentive plan, of which options to purchase an aggregate of 1,716,500 ordinary shares were granted to our executive officers and directors, and the remainder to other employees. We also granted share options in 2007, before adopting our 2008 share incentive plan, to certain executive officers that were subsequently exercised in 2008. As a result, we have incurred share-based compensation expenses of approximately RMB49.5 million for the period from September 10, 2007 to December 31, 2007, RMB4.2 million (US$0.6 million) in 2008 and RMB1.0 million (US$0.1 million) in 2009 related to such options. Our share-based compensation has resulted in us incurring a net loss for the period from September 10, 2007 to December 31, 2007 of RMB48.3 million. If we grant more options, restricted shares or other equity incentives in the future, we could incur significant compensation charges and our results of operations could be adversely affected. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, you may have less protection for your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, as amended and restated from time to time, the Companies Law (as amended) of the Cayman Islands and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. public company. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state and it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. 16 Table of Contents We are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. We are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE, by virtue of being a foreign private issuer. We are required to provide a brief description of the significant differences between our corporate governance practices and the corporate governance practices required to be followed by U.S. domestic companies under the NYSE rules. The standards applicable to us are considerably different than the standards applied to U.S. domestic issuers. The significantly different standards applicable to us do not require us to: • have a majority of the board be independent (other than due to the requirements for the audit committee under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act); • have a minimum of three members in our audit committee; • have a compensation committee, a nominating or corporate governance committee; • provide annual certification by our chief executive officer that he or she is not aware of any non-compliance with any corporate governance rules of the NYSE; • have regularly scheduled executive sessions with only non-management directors; • have at least one executive session of solely independent directors each year; • seek shareholder approval for (i) the implementation and material revisions of the terms of share incentive plans, (ii) the issuance of more than 1% of our outstanding ordinary shares or 1% of the voting power outstanding to a related party, (iii) the issuance of more than 20% of our outstanding ordinary shares, and (iv) an issuance that would result in a change of control; • adopt and disclose corporate governance guidelines; or • adopt and disclose a code of business conduct and ethics for directors, officers and employees. We intend to rely on all such exemptions provided by the NYSE to a foreign private issuer, except that we have established a compensation committee, will seek shareholder approval for the implementation of share incentive plans and for the increase in the number of shares available to be granted under share incentive plans and have adopted and disclosed corporate governance guidelines and a code of business conduct and ethics for directors, officers and employees. As a result, you may not be provided with the benefits of certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States Holders. We believe that we were not a “passive foreign investment company,” or a PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ending December 31, 2009, and we do not expect to become one for our current taxable year or in the future, although there can be no assurance in this regard. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and depends on the composition of our income and assets. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income (which includes cash). The market value of our assets may be determined in large part by the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares, which is likely to fluctuate. In addition, the composition of our income and assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend our cash. If we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which United States Holders (as defined in “Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — Material United States Federal Income Tax Consequences”) hold ADSs or ordinary shares, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences 17 Table of Contents could apply to such United States Holders. See “Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — Material United States Federal Income Tax Consequences — Passive Foreign Investment Company.” Risks Related to Our Industry Healthcare administrative authorities in China currently set procurement quotas for certain types of medical equipment. The procurement, installation and operation of large medical equipment in China are regulated by the Rules on Procurement and Use of Large Medical Equipment issued on December 31, 2004 by the MOH, the NDRC, and the Ministry of Finance. Pursuant to these rules, quotas for large medical equipment are set by the NDRC and the MOH or the relevant provincial healthcare administrative authorities, and hospitals must obtain a large medical equipment procurement license prior to the procurement of any such equipment. For medical equipment classified as Class A large medical equipment, which includes gamma knife systems, proton beam therapy systems and PET-CT scanners, procurement planning and approval are conducted by the MOH and the NDRC and large medical equipment procurement licenses are issued by the MOH. For medical equipment classified as Class B large medical equipment, which includes linear accelerators and MRI and CT scanners, procurement planning and approval are conducted by the relevant provincial healthcare administrative authorities with ratification by the MOH and the large medical equipment procurement licenses are issued by the relevant provincial healthcare administrative authorities. These rules apply to all public and private civilian medical institutions, whether non-profit or for-profit. Although these rules do not directly apply to military hospitals in China, which are hospitals regulated by the military but most of which are otherwise the same as other government-owned civilian hospitals open to the public, they are used as a reference by the healthcare administrative authority of the general logistics department of the PRC People’s Liberation Army, or the PLA, in approving the procurement of such medical equipment. The procurement regulations issued by the MOH stipulate that from 2007 to 2010, the issuance of procurement licenses for no more than 60 head gamma knife systems shall be approved nationwide. Of these 60 systems, 37 have already been allocated as of the date of this annual report, out of which four have been allocated to our hospital partners. In addition, procurement regulations issued by the MOH stipulate that from 2008 to 2010, the total number of PET-CT large medical equipment procurement licenses issued in China cannot exceed 38 and by the end of 2010 the total number of PET-CT systems in China can not exceed 110. Such procurement plan was subsequently amended and after consultation with the MOH, by the end of 2010, the total number of PET-CT systems in China can not exceed 110 after such modification. Out of the total number of PET-CT system quota that are available by the end of 2010, 41 have already been allocated as of the date of this annual report and none has been allocated to our hospital partners since all of our partner hospitals where our PET-CT scanners are located are military hospitals as of the date of this annual report. There is currently no guidance as to the total number of Class A large medical equipment procurement licenses that may be issued for other types of Class A large medical equipment that the centers in our network operate. In addition, many provincial administrative authorities do not provide the general public with information on their procurement planning and quotas for Class B large medical equipment procurement licenses, if any. Although we do not expect the current number of procurement licenses available to have a significant impact on our existing expansion plan until the end of 2010, any unexpected change as to the number of procurement licenses currently available as a result of any change in government policy, increases in competition and the number of applicants for the procurement licenses or other factors, or any failure of our hospital partners to obtain such licenses as expected, could all adversely affect our existing expansion plan resulting in a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the limitation on the number of procurement licenses available and any adverse change to such procurement licenses available in the future may affect our expansion plan after 2010, which could have a material adverse effect on our future prospects. In addition, for most of the medical equipment that we intend to install and operate in our specialty cancer hospitals, we will need to obtain large medical equipment procurement licenses from the MOH or provincial level healthcare administrative authorities. Such licenses might not be obtained in a timely manner or at all, which could delay or prevent the opening of our specialty cancer hospitals, and could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy and results of operations. See “— Risks Related to Our Business — We are planning to establish and operate specialty cancer hospitals that are majority owned by us and are subject to significant risks.” 18 Table of Contents Certain of our hospital partners have not received large medical equipment procurement licenses or interim procurement permits for some of the medical equipment in our network of centers which could result in fines or the suspension from use of such medical equipment. The quota requirement for large medical equipment procurement became effective in March 2005. A medical institution that houses equipment purchased prior to that time is required to retroactively apply for and obtain a large medical equipment procurement license. If a medical institution is unable to obtain a procurement license as a result of a lack of procurement quotas for such medical equipment allocated to the region in which the medical institution is located, an interim procurement permit for large medical equipment must be obtained in lieu thereof. As of the date of this annual report, of the 78 units of medical equipment in the centers in our network that are subject to large medical equipment procurement quota requirements, 46 were issued with a procurement license, three were issued with an interim procurement permit subsequent to the implementation of the quota requirement, 21 were issued with procurement permits or authorizations by competent regulatory authorities prior to the implementation of the quota requirement but have not received new procurement licenses or interim procurement permits under the quota requirements that became effective in 2005, and eight, which accounted for approximately 8.4% and 7.1% of our total net revenues in 2008 and 2009, respectively, have not yet been issued with any procurement license or permit. Although our hospital partners have applied to the competent regulatory authorities for procurement licenses for these last 29 centers, we cannot assure you that they will be successful. If our hospital partners fail to receive either a procurement license or an interim procurement permit, the centers in our network operating such medical equipment may be required to discontinue operations and may be deprived of the revenue derived from the operation of such equipment or assessed a fine, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Based on the opinion of our PRC counsel, Jingtian & Gongcheng Attorneys At Law, we believe that the 21 units of equipment, for which procurement permits or authorizations were obtained from the regulatory authorities prior to the implementation of the quota requirement but no new procurement licenses or interim procurement permits under the 2005 quota requirements have been issued, are unlikely to face fines or other penalties from such regulatory authorities, although we cannot be certain. These 21 units of equipment accounted for approximately 28.6% and 19.1% of our total net revenues in 2008 and 2009, respectively. In addition, for the three units of medical equipment that were issued with interim procurement permits subsequent to the implementation of the quota requirement, the relevant regulations require that hospitals pay taxes derived from the use of equipment covered by such interim permits, which may increase the operating costs of the centers in our network that operate such equipment. Also, upon the expiration of the useful life of medical equipment issued with interim procurement permits, hospitals are not permitted to replace such medical equipment with a newer model, in which case we may not be able to continue or renew our agreements with such hospital partners with interim procurement permits for medical equipment reaching the end of its life unless they are able to obtain a new procurement license. Pricing for the services provided by our network of centers may be adversely affected by reductions in treatment and examination fees set by the Chinese government. Centers in our network are primarily located in non-profit civilian and military hospitals in China. The medical service fees charged by these non-profit hospitals are subject to price ceilings set by the relevant provincial or regional price control authorities and healthcare administrative authorities in accordance with the Opinion Concerning the Reform of Medical Service Pricing Management issued on July 20, 2000 by the NDRC and the MOH. These price ceilings can be adjusted by those authorities downwards or upwards from time to time. For example, in 2006, treatment fees for the head gamma knife in one of the centers in our network decreased by approximately 30% and in 2007, and treatment fees for the body gamma knife in one of the centers in our network decreased by approximately 25%. However, overall, the average medical service fees for each of the treatments and diagnostic imaging services provided across our network of centers have remained stable since 2007. The relevant price control authorities and healthcare administrative authorities provide notices to hospitals, who in turn provide immediate notice to us, as to any change in the pricing ceiling for medical services. The timing between when notices are provided by the relevant price control authorities and healthcare administrative authorities and the effective date of such pricing change varies in different cities and regions as well as the relevant medical services in question, but typically ranges from one to three months. According to the Implementation Plan for the Recent Priorities of the Health Care System Reform (2009-2011), which was issued by the State Council on March 18, 2009, the Chinese government is aiming to reduce the examination fees for large medical equipment. In addition, 19 Table of Contents according to the Opinion on the Reform of Pharmaceuticals and Healthcare Service Pricing Structures issued on November 9, 2009 by the NDRC, the MOH and the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security, or the MHRSS, the Chinese government is also aiming to reduce the treatment fees for large medical equipment. If the examination or treatment fees for the services provided by the centers in our network are reduced by the government under these or other policies, our contracted percentage of each center’s revenue net of specified operating expenses may decrease, hospitals may be discouraged from entering into or renewing their agreements with us, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our business may be harmed by technological and therapeutic changes or by shifts in doctors’ or patients’ preferences for alternative treatments. The treatment of cancer patients is subject to potentially revolutionary technological and therapeutic changes. Future technological developments could render our equipment and the services provided in our network of centers obsolete. We may incur significant costs in replacing or modifying equipment in which we have already made a substantial investment prior to the end of its anticipated useful life. In addition, there may be significant advances in other cancer treatment methods, such as chemotherapy, surgery, biological therapy, or in cancer prevention techniques, which could reduce demand or even eliminate the need for the radiotherapy services that we provide. Also, patients and doctors may choose alternative cancer therapies over radiotherapy due to any number of reasons. Any shifts in doctors’ or patients’ preferences for other cancer therapies over radiotherapy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The technology used in some of our radiotherapy equipment, particularly our body gamma knife and our proton beam therapy system, has been in use for a limited period of time and the international medical community has not yet developed a large quantity of peer-reviewed literature that supports their safe and effective use. The technology in some of our radiotherapy equipment, particularly the body gamma knife system and the proton beam therapy system, has been in use for a limited period of time, and the international medical community has not yet developed a large quantity of peer-reviewed literature that supports their safe and effective use. As a result, such technology may not continue to gain acceptance by doctors and patients in China or may lose any acceptance such technology has previously gained if negative information were to emerge concerning their effectiveness or safety. As our agreements with manufacturers do not directly address such contingencies, we cannot assure you that equipment manufacturers would allow us to return their equipment or to otherwise reimburse us for any losses that we may suffer under all such circumstances. Since each unit of our medical equipment represents a significant investment, any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Our business may be adversely affected by impending healthcare reforms in China. In January 2009, the Chinese government approved in principle a healthcare reform plan to address the affordability of healthcare services, the rural healthcare system and healthcare service quality in China. In March, 2009, the Chinese government published the healthcare reform plan for 2009 to 2010, which broadly addressed medical insurance coverage, essential medicines, provision of basic healthcare services and reform of public hospitals. The published healthcare reform plan also called for additional government spending on healthcare over the next three years of RMB850.0 billion to support the reform plan. According to the Implementation Plan for the Recent Priorities of the Health Care System Reform (2009-2011), which was issued by the State Council on March 18, 2009, the Chinese government is aiming to reduce the examination fees for large medical equipment. In addition, according to the Opinion on the Reform of Pharmaceuticals and Healthcare Service Pricing Structures issued on November 9, 2009 by the NDRC, the MOH and the MHRSS, the Chinese government is also aiming to reduce the treatment fees for large medical equipment. Although many details related to the implementation of the healthcare reform plan are not yet clear, the implementation of any policy that reduces examination or treatment fees for large medical equipment or provides more funding for hospitals to purchase their own equipment may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some details of the implementation of the healthcare reform that have been published, including a policy drafted jointly by five ministries, including the Ministry of Finance, NDRC and MOH, providing general principles and guidelines for government subsidies and investments in the public healthcare system, a policy statement 20 Table of Contents allowing doctors to practice in up to three hospital within the same province, and the release of a list of 307 essential drugs whose prices are subject to central government guidelines and provincial government tenders. The distribution of these drugs is expected to encompass all government-owned healthcare facilities by 2020. In addition, the government has implemented a pilot plan as to the new rural healthcare insurance program whereby patients are required to pay hospitals only a portion of their medical expenses upfront and hospitals are required to seek payment of the balance from the government. Any resulting disputes or late or delinquent reimbursement payments may affect the collection of revenue at our network of centers and could increase our accounts receivables days. On February 11, 2010, the MOH, the State Commission Office for Public Sector Reform, the NDRC, the Ministry of Finance and the MHRSS jointly issued the Guidance of Pilots of Public Hospital Reform, or the Public Hospital Reform Guidance, which provides the general plan and policy of public hospital reforms that encourages private capital to invest in the medical service industry. Hospitals may take measures through cooperation, management and reorganization to promote the rational distribution of medical resources. The Public Hospital Reform Guidance may result in an increase competition as hospitals receive more private capital to finance the construction and operation of their own radiotherapy and diagnostic imaging center. In addition, the PRC government also calls for the reduction of the examination or treatment fees for large medical equipment in the Public Hospital Reform Guidance which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “— Pricing for the services provided by our network of centers may be adversely affected by reductions in treatment and examination fees set by the Chinese government.” We or our hospital partners may be unable to obtain various permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities in China relating to our medical equipment, which could delay the installation or interrupt the operation of our equipment. For our hospital-based centers, our hospital partners are required to obtain a radiation safety permit from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, or MEP, and a radiotherapy permit from the competent healthcare administrative authorities in order to operate the medical equipment in our network of centers that contains radioactive materials or emit radiation during operation. Our hospital partners are also required to obtain a radiation worker permit from the competent provincial healthcare administrative authorities for each medical technician who operates such equipment. Any failure on the part of our hospital partners to obtain approvals or renewals of these permits from the MEP or the competent healthcare administrative authorities could delay the installation, or interrupt the operation, of our medical equipment, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Each of our planned specialty cancer hospitals that will be majority owned by us will be required to obtain a radiation safety permit from the MEP and a radiotherapy permit as well as a medical institution practicing license and radiation worker permits for our staff from the relevant provincial healthcare administrative authorities. Any failure on our part to obtain approvals or renewals of these permits could delay the opening, or interrupt the operation, of our specialty cancer hospitals, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. For more information on risks related to our planned specialty cancer hospitals, see “— Risks Related to Our Business — We are planning to establish and operate specialty cancer hospitals that are majority owned by us and are subject to significant risks.” If the government and public insurers in the PRC do not continue to provide sufficient coverage and reimbursement for the radiotherapy and diagnostic imaging services provided by our network of centers, our revenues could be adversely affected. Although self payments account for a high percentage of total medical expenses in China, approximately 20.4% of total medical expenses were sourced from direct payments by the government and approximately 34.5% of total medical expenses were sourced from government-directed public medical insurance schemes, commercial insurance plans and employers in 2007, according to the MOH. For public servants and others covered by 1989 Administrative Measure on Public Health Service and the 1997 Circular of Reimbursement Coverage of Large Medical Equipment of Public Health Service, the government currently either fully or partially reimburses medical expenses for certain approved cancer diagnosis and radiotherapy treatment services, including treatments utilizing linear accelerators and diagnostic imaging services utilizing CT and MRI scanners. However, gamma knife treatments and PET scans are currently not eligible for reimbursement under this plan. Urban residents in China are covered by one of two urban public medical insurance schemes and rural residents are covered under a new rural 21 Table of Contents healthcare insurance program launched in 2003. The urban employees basic medical insurance scheme, which covers employed urban residents, partially reimburses urban workers for treatments utilizing linear accelerators and gamma knife systems and diagnostic imaging services utilizing CT and MRI scanners, with reimbursement levels varying from province to province. For urban non-workers and rural residents, the types of cancer diagnosis and radiotherapy treatments that are covered are generally set with reference to the policy for urban employees in the same region of the country, but the reimbursement levels for covered medical expenses for urban non-workers and rural residents, which vary widely from region to region and treatment to treatment, are generally lower than those for urban employees in the same region. We cannot assure you that the current coverage or reimbursement levels for cancer diagnosis or radiotherapy treatments will persist. If the national or provincial authorities in China decide to reduce the coverage or reimbursement levels for the radiotherapy and diagnostic imaging services provided by our network of centers, patients may opt for or be forced to resort to other forms of cancer therapy and our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political, economic and other policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could materially and adversely affect the growth of our business and our competitive position. All of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the degree of government involvement; • the level of development; • the growth rate; • the control of foreign exchange; • the allocation of resources; • an evolving regulatory system; and • lack of sufficient transparency in the regulatory process. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past 30 years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese economy has also experienced certain adverse effects due to the recent global financial crisis. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the Chinese government could materially and adversely affect our business. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. 22 Table of Contents Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on overall economic growth and the level of healthcare investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation since then has been to significantly enhance the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. We conduct all of our business through our subsidiaries established in China. These subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involves uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, some regulatory requirements issued by certain PRC government authorities may not be consistently applied by other government authorities (including local government authorities), thus making strict compliance with all regulatory requirements impractical, or in some circumstances, impossible. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into with our business partners, customers and suppliers. In addition, such uncertainties, including the inability to enforce our contracts, together with any development or interpretation of PRC law that is adverse to us, could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Furthermore, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors, including you. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and management attention. The M&A rule establishes more complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. The M&A rule establishes additional procedures and requirements that could make some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a Chinese domestic enterprise. We may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses. Complying with the requirements of the M&A rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. Recent PRC regulations, particularly SAFE Circular No. 75 relating to acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign entities, may limit our ability to acquire PRC companies and adversely affect the implementation of our strategy as well as our business and prospects. In 2005, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE issued a number of rules regarding offshore investments by PRC residents. The currently effective rule, the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Return Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted Via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, known as SAFE Circular No. 75, was issued on October 21, 2005 and further clarified by Circular No. 106 issued by the SAFE on May 29, 2007. SAFE Circular No. 75 requires PRC residents to register with and receive approvals from the SAFE in connection with certain offshore investment activities. Since we are a Cayman Islands company that is controlled by PRC residents, we are affected by the 23 Table of Contents registration requirements imposed by SAFE Circular No. 75. Also, any failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to comply with SAFE Circular No. 75, or change in SAFE policy and regulations in respect of SAFE Circular No. 75, could adversely affect us in a variety of ways. SAFE Circular No. 75 provides, among other things, that prior to establishing or assuming control of an offshore company for the purpose of transferring to that offshore company assets of, or equity interests in, an enterprise in the PRC, each PRC resident (whether a natural or legal person) who is an ultimate controller of the offshore company must complete prescribed registration procedures with the relevant local branch of the SAFE. Such PRC resident must amend his or her SAFE registration under certain circumstances, including upon any further transfer of equity interests in, or assets of, an onshore enterprise to the offshore company as well as any material change in the capital of the offshore company, including by way of a transfer or swap of shares, a merger or division, a long-term equity or debt investment or the creation of any security interests in favor of third parties. The registration and filing procedures under SAFE rules are prerequisites for other approval and registration procedures necessary for capital inflow from the offshore entity, such as inbound investments or shareholder loans, or capital outflow to the offshore entity, such as the payment of profits or dividends, liquidating distributions, equity sale proceeds, or the return of funds upon a capital reduction. SAFE Circular No. 75 applies retroactively and to indirect shareholdings. PRC residents who have established or acquired direct or indirect control of offshore companies that have made onshore investments in the PRC in the past are required to complete the registration procedures by March 31, 2006. The failure or inability of a PRC resident shareholder to receive any required approvals or make any required registrations could subject the PRC subsidiary to fines and legal sanctions, restrict the offshore company’s additional investments in the PRC subsidiary, or limit the PRC subsidiary’s ability to make distributions or pay dividends offshore. Due in part to the uncertainties relating to the interpretation and implementation of SAFE Circular No. 75, its effect on companies such as ours is difficult to predict. Currently, several of our shareholders who are residents in the PRC and are subject to the above registration or amendment of registration requirements have applied to SAFE’s local branches to make the required make-up SAFE registration with respect to their existing investments in our company. Because of the current suspension of acceptance of such make-up registration by the SAFE authorities due to reportedly forthcoming new SAFE regulations, such shareholders’ applications are still pending. We cannot assure you that these shareholders’ pending applications will eventually be approved by the authorities. Furthermore, there may be additional PRC shareholders, whose identities we may not be aware of and whose actions we do not control, who are not in compliance with the registration procedures set forth in SAFE Circular No. 75. If the SAFE determines that any of our PRC shareholders failed to make filings that they should have made with respect to any of our offshore entities, we could be subject to fines and legal penalties, or the SAFE could impose restrictions on our foreign exchange activities, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to us or our affiliates and our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to receive capital from us. Any of these actions could, among other things, materially and adversely affect our business operations, acquisition opportunities and financing alternatives. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds of our initial public offering to make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. In utilizing the proceeds from our initial public offering in December 2009 or from any further offerings, as an offshore holding company of our PRC subsidiaries, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC regulations and approvals. For example, loans by us to our wholly owned PRC subsidiaries in China, each of which is a foreign-invested enterprise, to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the SAFE or its local counterpart. We may also decide to finance our PRC subsidiaries through capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce in China or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or capital contributions by us to our subsidiaries or any of their respective subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to use the proceeds of our initial public offering and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. 24 Table of Contents Governmental control of currency conversion may limit our ability to use our revenues effectively and the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to obtain financing. We receive all of our revenues in Renminbi, which currently is not a freely convertible currency. Restrictions on currency conversion imposed by the PRC government may limit our ability to use revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our expenditures denominated in foreign currencies or our business activities outside China, if any. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, Renminbi may be freely converted into foreign currency for payments relating to “current account transactions,” which include among other things dividend payments and payments for the import of goods and services, by complying with certain procedural requirements. Our PRC subsidiaries are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to us without prior approval from the SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. Our PRC subsidiaries may also retain foreign currency in their respective current account bank accounts for use in payment of international current account transactions. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, and of foreign currencies into Renminbi, for payments relating to “capital account transactions,” which principally includes investments and loans, generally requires the approval of SAFE and other relevant PRC governmental authorities. Restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi for capital account transactions could affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make investments overseas or to obtain foreign currency through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. In particular, if our PRC subsidiaries borrow foreign currency from us or other foreign lenders, they must do so within approved limits that satisfy their approval documentation and PRC debt to equity ratio requirements. Further, such loans must be registered with the SAFE or its local counterpart. In practice, it could be time-consuming to complete such SAFE registration process. If we finance our PRC subsidiaries through additional capital contributions, the amount of these capital contributions must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce in China or its local counterpart. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. The notice requires that Renminbi converted from the foreign currency-denominated capital of a foreign-invested company may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC unless specifically provided for otherwise in its business scope. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of Renminbi funds converted from the foreign currency-denominated capital of a foreign-invested company. The use of such Renminbi may not be changed without approval from SAFE, and may not be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used for purposes within the company’s approved business scope. Violations of Circular 142 may result in severe penalties, including substantial fines as set forth in the Foreign Exchange Administration Regulations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the necessary government registrations or obtain the necessary government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries or with respect to future capital contributions by us to our PRC subsidiaries. If we fail to complete such registrations or obtain such approvals, our ability to use the proceeds we receive from our initial public offering and to capitalize or otherwise fund our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. Fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, has historically been set by the People’s Bank of China. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a band against a basket of certain foreign currencies, determined by the Bank of China, against which it can rise or fall by as much as 0.3% each day. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to further liberalize its currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the 25 Table of Contents U.S. dollar. In addition, as we rely entirely on dividends paid to us by our PRC subsidiaries, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition, and the value of any dividends payable on our ADSs in foreign currency terms. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars that we receive from a future offering into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount that we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. The increase in the PRC enterprise income tax and the discontinuation of the preferential tax treatment currently available to us could, in each case, result in a decrease of our net income and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our PRC subsidiaries are incorporated in the PRC and are governed by applicable PRC income tax laws and regulations. Prior to January 1, 2008, entities established in the PRC were generally subject to a 30% state and 3% local enterprise income tax rate. There were various preferential tax treatments promulgated by national tax authorities that were available to foreign-invested enterprises or enterprises located in certain areas of China. In addition, some local tax authorities may allow enterprises registered in their tax jurisdiction to enjoy lower preferential tax treatments according to local preferential tax policy. For example, Shanghai Medstar was entitled to a reduced enterprise income tax rate of 15% before January 1, 2008 due to its status as a foreign-invested manufacturing enterprise registered in the Shanghai Waigaoqiao free trade zone. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, was enacted on March 16, 2007 and became effective on January 1, 2008. The implementation regulations under the EIT Law issued by the PRC State Council became effective January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law and the implementation regulations, the PRC has adopted a uniform tax rate of 25% for all enterprises (including foreign-invested enterprises) and revoked the previous tax exemption, reduction and preferential treatments applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. However, there is a transition period for enterprises, whether foreign-invested or domestic, that received preferential tax treatments granted in accordance with the then prevailing tax laws and regulations prior to January 1, 2008. Enterprises that were subject to an enterprise income tax rate lower than 25% prior to January 1, 2008 may continue to enjoy the lower rate and gradually transition to the new tax rate within five years after the effective date of the EIT Law. In 2009, our subsidiaries Aohua Medical and Shanghai Medstar each had a preferential income tax rate of 20% that is scheduled to increase to 22% in 2010, 24% in 2011 and 25% in 2012. We cannot assure you that the preferential income tax rates that we enjoy will not be phased out at a faster rate or will not be discontinued altogether, either of which could result in a decrease of our net income and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Also, the reduced enterprise income tax rate of 15%, as described above, that our subsidiary Shanghai Medstar enjoyed before January 1, 2008, for which only foreign-invested manufacturing enterprises registered in the Shanghai Waigaoqiao free trade zone were eligible, was granted based on Shanghai tax authorities’ local preferential tax policy. It is uncertain whether the transitional tax rates under the EIT Law would apply to companies that enjoyed a preferential reduced tax rate of 15% under a local preferential tax policy. If Shanghai Medstar cannot enjoy the such transitional tax rates under the EIT Law, it will be subject to the standard enterprise income tax rate, which is currently 25%, and our income tax expenses would increase, which would have a material adverse effect on our net income and results of operation. In addition, under current PRC regulations, if it is determined that a taxpayer has underpaid tax due to prior incorrect advice from relevant tax authorities, the taxpayer may still be required to retroactively pay the full amount of unpaid tax within three years of such determination, although the taxpayer would not be subject to any penalty or late payment fee. If we are required to make such retroactive tax payments due to the retroactive cancellation of Shanghai Medstar’s preferential reduced enterprise income tax rate of 15%, our financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents We rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs, and any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We conduct all of our business through our consolidated subsidiaries incorporated in China. We rely on dividends paid by these consolidated subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay any dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities established in China is subject to limitations. Regulations in China currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Each of our PRC subsidiaries, including wholly foreign-owned enterprises, or WFOEs, and joint venture enterprises is also required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves or statutory capital reserve fund until the aggregate amount of such reserves reaches 50% of its respective registered capital. Our statutory reserves are not distributable as loans, advances or cash dividends. We anticipate that in the foreseeable future our PRC subsidiaries will need to continue to set aside 10% of their respective after-tax profits to their statutory reserves. In addition, if any of our PRC subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Any limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. In addition, under the EIT law, the Notice of the State Administration of Taxation on Negotiated Reduction of Dividends and Interest Rates, or Notice 112, which was issued on January 29, 2008, the Arrangement between the PRC and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion, or the Double Taxation Arrangement (Hong Kong), which became effective on December 8, 2006, and the Notice of the State Administration of Taxation Regarding Interpretation and Recognition of Beneficial Owners under Tax Treaties, or Notice 601, which became effective on October 27, 2009, dividends from our PRC subsidiaries paid to us through our Hong Kong subsidiary may be subject to a withholding tax at a rate of 10%, or at a rate of 5% if our Hong Kong subsidiary is considered as a “beneficial owner” that is generally engaged in substantial business activities and entitled to treaty benefits under the Double Taxation Arrangement (Hong Kong). Furthermore, the ultimate tax rate will be determined by treaty between the PRC and the tax residence of the holder of the PRC subsidiary. We are actively monitoring the proposed withholding tax and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to minimize the corresponding tax impact. Dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The EIT Law provides that a maximum income tax rate of 20% may be applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC, and the State Council has reduced such rate to 10%, in the absence of any applicable tax treaties that may reduce such rate, through the implementation regulations. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and substantially all of our income may be derived from dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC. If we are required under the EIT Law to pay income tax for any dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, the amount of dividends, if any, we may pay to our shareholders and ADS holders may be materially and adversely affected. According to the Double Taxation Arrangement (Hong Kong), Notice 112 and Notice 601, dividends paid to enterprises incorporated in Hong Kong are subject to a withholding tax of 5% provided that a Hong Kong resident enterprise owns over 25% of the PRC enterprise distributing the dividend and can be considered as a “beneficial owner” and entitled to treaty benefits under the Double Taxation Arrangement (Hong Kong). Thus, as Cyber Medical Network Limited, or Cyber Medical, is a Hong Kong company and owns 100% of CMS Hospital Management, under the aforementioned arrangement dividends paid to us through Cyber Medical by CMS Hospital Management may be subject to the 5% income tax if we and Cyber Medical are considered as “non-resident enterprises” under the EIT Law and Cyber Medical is considered as a “beneficial owner” and entitled to treaty benefits under the Double Taxation Arrangement (Hong Kong). If Cyber Medical is not regarded as the beneficial owner of any such dividends, it will not be entitled to the treaty benefits under the Double Taxation Arrangement (Hong Kong). As a result, such dividends would be subject to normal withholding income tax of 10% as provided by the PRC domestic law rather than the favorable rate of 5% applicable under the Double Taxation Arrangement (Hong Kong). 27 Table of Contents The British Virgin Islands, where OMS, the direct holding company of Aohua Medical and Aohua Leasing, is incorporated, does not have a tax treaty with the PRC. Thus, if OMS is considered a “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT law, the 10% withholding tax would be imposed on our dividend income received from Aohua Medical and Aohua Leasing. We may be classified as a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, which could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. The EIT Law provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on their worldwide income. In addition, a recent circular issued by the State Administration of Taxation on April 22, 2009 regarding the standards used to classify certain Chinese-invested enterprises controlled by Chinese enterprises or Chinese group enterprises and established outside of China as “resident enterprises” clarified that dividends and other income paid by such “resident enterprises” will be considered to be PRC source income, subject to PRC withholding tax, currently at a rate of 10%, when recognized by non-PRC enterprise shareholders. This recent circular also subjects such “resident enterprises” to various reporting requirements with the PRC tax authorities. Under the implementation regulations to the enterprise income tax, a “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and properties of an enterprise. In addition, the recent circular mentioned above sets out criteria for determining whether “de facto management bodies” are located in China for overseas incorporated, domestically controlled enterprises. However, as this circular only applies to enterprises established outside of China that are controlled by PRC enterprises or groups of PRC enterprises, it remains unclear how the tax authorities will determine the location of “de facto management bodies” for overseas incorporated enterprises that are controlled by individual PRC residents like us and some of our subsidiaries. Therefore, although substantially all of our management is currently located in the PRC, it remains unclear whether the PRC tax authorities would require or permit our overseas registered entities to be treated as PRC resident enterprises. We do not currently consider our company to be a PRC resident enterprise. However, if the PRC tax authorities disagree with our assessment and determine that we are a “resident enterprise,” we may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide income and dividends paid by us to our non-PRC shareholders as well as capital gains recognized by them with respect to the sale of our shares may be subject to a PRC withholding tax. This will have an impact on our effective tax rate, a material adverse effect on our net income and results of operations, and may require us to withhold tax on our non-PRC shareholders. Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gains on the sale of our ADSs or ordinary shares may become subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the EIT Law and implementation regulations issued by the State Council, a 10% PRC income tax is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC or which have such establishment or place of business but have income not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or shares by such investors is also subject to a 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. It is unclear whether dividends paid on our ordinary shares or ADSs, or any gain realized from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and would as a result be subject to PRC tax. If we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” then any dividends paid to our overseas shareholders or ADS holders that are “non-resident enterprises” may be regarded as being derived from PRC sources and, as a result, would be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of 10%. In addition, if we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” non-resident enterprise shareholders of our ordinary shares or ADSs may be eligible for the benefits of income tax treaties entered into between China and other countries. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, the value of your investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. 28 Table of Contents If we are found to have failed to comply with applicable laws, we may incur additional expenditures or be subject to significant fines and penalties. Our operations are subject to PRC laws and regulations applicable to us. However, the scope of many PRC laws and regulations are uncertain, and their implementation could differ significantly in different localities. In certain instances, local implementation rules and their implementation are not necessarily consistent with the regulations at the national level. Although we strive to comply with all applicable PRC laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC government authorities will not determine that we have not been in compliance with certain laws or regulations. We face risks related to natural disasters and health epidemics in China, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by natural disasters or the outbreak of health epidemics in China. For example, in May 2008, Sichuan Province experienced a strong earthquake, measuring approximately 8.0 on the Richter scale, that caused widespread damage and casualties. In addition, as our network of radiotherapy and diagnostic imaging centers are located in hospitals across China, our operations may be particularly vulnerable to any health epidemic. In the last decade, the PRC has suffered health epidemics related to the outbreak of avian influenza and severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. In April 2009, an outbreak of the H1N1 virus, also commonly referred to as “swine flu”, occurred in Mexico and has spread to other countries, including China. If the outbreak of swine flu were to become widespread in China or increase in severity, it could have an adverse effect on economic activity in China, and our business and operations could be adversely affected. Any future natural disasters or health epidemics in the PRC could also have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares and ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market price for our ADSs is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • regulatory developments in China affecting us or our competitors; • announcements of studies and reports relating to the effectiveness or safety of the services provided in our network of centers or those of our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and changes or revisions of our expected results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other medical services companies; • addition or departure of our senior management and other key personnel; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; and • sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations 29 Table of Contents may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation against that company. If we were involved in a class action suit or other securities litigation, it would divert the attention of our senior management, require us to incur significant expense and, whether or not adversely determined, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of December 31, 2009, we had 147,455,500 ordinary shares outstanding, including 36,000,000 ordinary shares represented by 12,000,000 ADSs that were sold in our initial public offering in December 2009. Sales of our ordinary shares or ADSs held by our significant shareholders or any other shareholder, or the availability of these securities for future sale, may have a negative effect on the market price of our ADSs. In addition, certain of our shareholders or their transferees and assignees have the right to cause us to register the sale of their shares under the Securities Act upon the occurrence of certain circumstances. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights as our shareholders and may only exercise voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under the deposit agreement, if the vote is by show of hands, the depositary will vote the deposited securities in accordance with the voting instructions received from a majority of holders of ADSs that provided timely voting instructions. If the vote is by poll, the depositary will vote the deposited securities in accordance with the voting instructions it timely receives from ADS holders. In the event of poll voting, deposited securities for which no instructions are received will not be voted. Under our third amended and restated articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is seven days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ordinary shares are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholder meeting. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems is expedient to do so in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 30 Table of Contents Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may, from time to time, distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make any such rights available to you in the United States unless we register such rights and the securities to which such rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and you will not receive such distribution. ITEM 4. INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY A. History and Development of the Company Concord Medical Services Holdings Limited, or Concord Medical, was incorporated in the Cayman Islands on November 27, 2007 and became our ultimate holding company on March 7, 2008, when the shareholders of Ascendium Group Limited, or Ascendium, a holding company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands on September 10, 2007, exchanged all of their shares for shares of Concord Medical. Prior to that, on October 30, 2007, Ascendium had acquired 100% of the equity interest in Our Medical Services, Ltd., or OMS, resulting in a change in control. We refer to this transaction as the OMS reorganization in this annual report. Prior to the OMS reorganization, OMS, together with Shenzhen Aohua Medical Services Co., Ltd., or Aohua Medical, in which OMS effectively held all of the equity interest at the time, operated all of our business. Aohua Medical was incorporated by OMS on July 23, 1997 and OMS contributed RMB4.8 million to Aohua Medical, representing 90% of the equity interest in Aohua Medical. The other 10% of Aohua Medical was held by two nominees who acted as the custodians of such equity interest. On June 10, 2009, this 10% equity interest was transferred to our subsidiary Shenzhen Aohua Medical Leasing and Services Co., Ltd., or Aohua Leasing. The two nominees have not maintained their required capital contributions at any time subsequent to the incorporation of Aohua Medical. Due to this capital deficiency as well as other legal conditions, the two nominees had no legal rights to participate either retrospectively or prospectively at any time in any profits or losses of Aohua Medical or to share in any residual assets or any proceeds in the event that Aohua Medical encountered a liquidation event. For these reasons, we do not account for this 10% equity interest as a minority interest in our consolidated results of operations or financial position. On July 31, 2008, our subsidiary Ascendium acquired 100% of the equity interest in China Medstar together with its wholly owned PRC subsidiary, Medstar (Shanghai) Leasing Co., Ltd., or Shanghai Medstar, for approximately £17.1 million or approximately RMB238.7 million (US$35.0 million). China Medstar, through its then subsidiary Shanghai Medstar, engaged in the provision of medical equipment leasing and management services to hospitals in the PRC. On March 1, 2009, 100% of the equity interest in Shanghai Medstar was transferred from China Medstar to Ascendium. On August 17, 2009, the registration for such transfer was completed. On October 28, 2008, we acquired control of Beijing Xing Heng Feng Medical Technology Co., Ltd., or Xing Heng Feng Medical, through our subsidiaries Aohua Leasing and CMS Hospital Management Co., Ltd., or CMS Hospital Management, by acquiring 100% of its equity interest, which corresponded to its then paid-in 31 Table of Contents registered capital. We paid total consideration of approximately RMB35.0 million (US$5.1 million) for this acquisition. We currently conduct substantially all of our operations through the following subsidiaries in the PRC: • Shenzhen Aohua Medical Services Co., Ltd., our wholly owned subsidiary incorporated in the PRC that engages in the provision of radiotherapy and diagnostic center management services to hospitals in the PRC; • Shenzhen Aohua Medical Leasing and Services Co., Ltd., our wholly owned subsidiary incorporated in the PRC that engages in the provision of radiotherapy and diagnostic equipment leasing services to hospitals in the PRC; • Medstar (Shanghai) Leasing Co., Ltd., our wholly owned subsidiary incorporated in the PRC that engages in the sale of medical equipment and the provision of radiotherapy and diagnostic equipment leasing and management services to hospitals in the PRC; • CMS Hospital Management Co., Ltd., our wholly owned subsidiary incorporated in the PRC that engages in the provision of radiotherapy and diagnostic equipment management services to hospitals in the PRC; and • Beijing Xing Heng Feng Medical Technology Co., Ltd., our wholly owned subsidiary incorporated in the PRC that engages in the provision of radiotherapy and diagnostic equipment management services to hospitals in the PRC. On December 11, 2009, our ADSs were listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Our principal executive offices are located at 18/F, Tower A, Global Trade Center, 36 North Third Ring Road East, Dongcheng District, Beijing, People’s Republic of China, 100013. Our telephone number at this address is (86 10) 5903-6688 and our fax number is (86 10) 5957-5252. Our registered office in the Cayman Islands is at Scotia Centre, 4th Floor, P.O. Box 2804, George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands KY1-1112. Our website is www.cmsholdings.com. The information contained on our website is not a part of this annual report. We had capital expenditures of RMB65.9 million, RMB31.6 million and RMB228.7 million (US$33.5 million) for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. Our capital expenditures were related primarily to the purchase of medical equipment and the acquisition of assets from third parties, including the purchase in 2009 from Chang’an Hospital six units of radiotherapy and diagnostic imaging equipment that were located at the six centers that we managed under service-only agreements with Chang’an Hospital for the total consideration of approximately RMB72.7 million (US$10.6 million). Our capital expenditures are primarily funded by net cash provided by financing activities and to a lesser extent by cash generated from our operations. We estimate that our expected aggregate capital expenditures in 2010 will be approximately RMB400 million (US$58.6 million) to RMB450 million (US$65.9 million), which we will use mainly for the continued expansion of our network of radiotherapy and diagnostic imaging centers, including for the purchase of medical equipment and for the establishment of our specialty cancer hospitals. We expect such capital expenditure to be funded by proceeds raised from our initial public offering, our operating cash flow and bank loans. B. Business Overview Overview We operate the largest network of radiotherapy and diagnostic imaging centers in China in terms of revenues and the total number of centers in operation in 2008, according to a report by Frost & Sullivan commissioned by us that compared our pro forma revenues against the revenues of our competitors in 2008 and our number of centers and units of equipment against those of our competitors as of the end of 2008. As of December 31, 2009, our network comprised 88 centers based in 57 hospitals, spanning 36 cities across 21 provinces and 32 Table of Contents administrative regions in China. These hospitals are substantially comprised of 3A hospitals, the highest ranked hospitals by quality and size in China as determined in accordance with the standards of the Ministry of Health, or the MOH. Cancer was the leading cause of death in China in 2008 according to the MOH, and there is a relatively low penetration of radiotherapy and diagnostic imaging equipment compared to developed countries. We believe that our leading network and our experience and expertise uniquely position us to address the underserved market in China for radiotherapy and diagnostic imaging services. Most of the centers in our network are established through long-term lease and management services arrangements entered into with our hospital partners. Under these arrangements, we receive a contracted percentage of each center’s revenue net of specified operating expenses. Each center is located on the premises of our hospital partners and is typically equipped with a primary unit of advanced radiotherapy or diagnostic imaging equipment, such as a linear accelerator, head gamma knife system, body gamma knife system, positron emission tomography-computed tomography scanner, or PET-CT scanner, or magnetic resonance imaging scanner, or MRI scanner. We provide clinical support services to doctors who work in the centers in our network, which include developing treatment protocols for doctors and organizing joint diagnosis between doctors in our network and clinical research. In addition, we help recruit and determine the compensation of doctors and other medical personnel in our network and are typically in charge of most of the non-clinical aspects of the centers’ daily operations, including marketing, training and administrative duties. Our hospital partners are responsible for the centers’ clinical activities, the medical decisions made by doctors, and the employment of the doctors in accordance with regulations. We believe that our success is largely due to the high quality clinical care provided at our network of centers and our market-oriented management culture and practices. Many of the doctors who work in our network have extensive clinical experience in radiotherapy, some of whom are recognized as leading experts in radiation oncology in China. We enhance the quality of clinical care in our network through established training of, and on-going clinical education for, doctors in our network. We believe that our market-oriented management culture and practices allow us to manage centers more efficiently and offer more consistent and better patient services than our competitors. We believe that our success has given us a strong reputation within the medical community, which in turn gives us a competitive advantage in gaining patient referrals and establishing new centers. To complement our organic growth, we have also selectively acquired businesses to expand our network. In July 2008, we acquired China Medstar Pte. Ltd., or China Medstar, a company then publicly listed on the Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange, or the AIM, for approximately £17.1 million or approximately RMB238.7 million (US$35.0 million). At the time of the acquisition, China Medstar jointly managed 23 centers with its hospital partners across 14 cities in China. To further enhance our reputation and to employ high quality doctors, we plan to establish and operate specialty cancer hospitals in China. We intend for our specialty cancer hospitals to be centers of excellence. We have entered into an agreement in April 2010 to establish our first specialty cancer hospital, the Chang’an CMS International Cancer Center, in Xi’an, Shaanxi Province. We are also in the process of establishing the Beijing Proton Medical Center, another specialty cancer hospital, which is expected to commence operation in 2012. We expect that the Beijing Proton Medical Center will be the first proton beam therapy treatment center in China equipped with a proton beam therapy system licensed for clinical use. Our business has grown significantly in recent years through development of new centers, increases in the number of patient cases of existing centers and acquisitions. We have increased the number of centers in our network from 41 at the end of 2007 to 72 as of December 31, 2008 and to 88 as of December 31, 2009. Our total net revenues were RMB67.4 million, RMB14.0 million, RMB171.8 million and RMB292.4 million (US$42.8 million) for the period from January 1, 2007 to October 30, 2007 (Predecessor Period), the period from September 10, 2007 to December 31, 2007 (Successor Period) and for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2009 (Successor Period), respectively. Our total net revenues increased for the year ended 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to (i) an increase in the number of patient cases from existing centers and an increase in the number of centers in our network and (ii) consolidation of China Medstar’s revenues for the whole of 2009 as compared to for the last five months of 2008, as a result of the acquisition of China Medstar being completed in July 2008. For periods prior to October 30, 2007, our predecessor is deemed the reporting entity for financial reporting purposes as a result of our reorganization. We report the financial statements of our successor entity from September 10, 2007, the date of inception of our successor entity. For additional information relating to our history and reorganization and our 33 Table of Contents financial presentation, see “— History and Development of the Company,” “— Organizational Structure” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” Our Network of Centers and Specialty Cancer Hospitals As of December 31, 2009, we operated an extensive network of 88 centers based in 57 hospitals, spanning 36 cities across 21 provinces and administrative regions in China. These hospitals are substantially comprised of 3A hospitals, the highest ranked hospitals by quality and size in China as determined in accordance with the standards of the MOH. Our network includes 78 radiotherapy and diagnostic imaging centers and 10 centers that provide other treatment and diagnostic services, such as electroencephalography for the diagnosis of epilepsy, thermotherapy to increase the efficacy of and for pain relief after radiotherapy and chemotherapy, high intensity focused ultrasound therapy for the treatment of cancer, stereotactic radiofrequency ablation for the treatment of Parkinson’s Disease and refraction and tonometry for the diagnosis of ophthalmic conditions. Each center is typically equipped with a primary unit of medical equipment, such as a linear accelerator, head gamma knife system, body gamma knife system, PET-CT scanner or MRI scanner. Each center is located on the premises of our hospital partners with the facilities of the centers provided by the hospitals. Each center is usually comprised of a treatment area, a patient preparation and observation room, working areas for the center’s doctors and other personnel and a waiting and reception area. In addition to our network of centers, we plan to establish and operate specialty cancer hospitals that will be majority owned by us. We have entered into an agreement in April 2010 to establish the Chang’an CMS International Cancer Center in Xi’an, Shaanxi Province. We are also currently sin the process of establishing the Beijing Proton Medical Center in Beijing. Our Arrangements with Hospital Partners Lease and Management Services Arrangements As of December 31, 2009, we had 85 centers that were established under lease and management services arrangements. We typically establish such centers with civilian hospitals by entering into a lease agreement and a management agreement. Centers at military hospitals, which are regulated by the military but most of which are otherwise the same as other government-owned hospitals open to the public, are typically established under a cooperation agreement. The reason for the two different contractual structures is to comply with the different regulations governing civilian and military hospitals in China. See “