Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Financial Reporting Processes The Restatement of our consolidated financial statements has had, and could continue to have, a material adverse impact on us. In connection with the Restatement, we incurred substantial unanticipated costs (primarily accounting related) of approximately $23.1 million in 2013 and approximately $44.7 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2014. In addition, we have incurred and will continue to incur in 2014 additional costs related to the Restatement and related internal control remediation. We have been required to expend significant time and resources in connection with the Restatement, and the attention of our management team has been diverted by these efforts. Because of the Restatement, and the delay in completing our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, we have been unable to timely file with the SEC the required periodic reports associated with these years and the required periodic reports for 2014. As a result of these events, we have become subject to significant risks and occurrences relating to the following matters, which are described in more detail below: • possible adverse consequences of failure to file past SEC reports; • limitations on access to public debt and equity capital markets; • impacts of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting; • potential changes in tax liabilities; and • civil litigation. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which, if not corrected, could affect the reliability of our consolidated financial statements and have other adverse consequences. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related SEC rules require management of certain public companies to assess the effectiveness of their internal control over financial reporting annually and to include in Annual Reports on Form 10-K a management report on that assessment, together with an attestation report by an 18 Table of Contents independent registered public accounting firm. Under Section 404 and the SEC rules, a company cannot conclude that its internal control over financial reporting is effective if there exist any material weaknesses in its financial controls. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013. These material weaknesses are described in “Part II - Item 9A - Controls and Procedures” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have taken and will continue to take actions to remediate the material weaknesses and improve the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot, however, assure you that we will be able to correct these material weaknesses in a timely manner. Any failure in the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, particularly if it results in misstatements in our financial statements, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and could adversely affect investor perceptions of our company. As a result of our Restatement, we face limitations in registering securities for a public offering, acquisitions or equity incentive plans, which could adversely affect our business. As a result of the Restatement and our delayed filings, we are ineligible to use “short-form” registration statements that would allow us to incorporate by reference our SEC reports into our registration statements, or to use “shelf” registration statements until we have filed all of our periodic reports in a timely manner for a period of 12 months. This could increase the costs of selling securities publicly and could significantly delay such sales and adversely affect our business. This also has resulted in our inability to permit use of our registration statement on Form S-8, which we filed to register the issuance and sales of securities under our equity incentive plans, which could adversely affect our ability to grant awards to adequately incentivize and retain employees. Risks Relating to our Business and Industry We may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. We incurred net losses in 2012 and 2011. We expect to report additional quarterly and annual losses in future periods, in accordance with GAAP. We incurred significant expenses during 2013 and 2012 related to, among other things, legal defense, crisis management costs, and stranded personnel costs arising from the lawsuit filed in January 2012 by the Minnesota Attorney General that is described in “Part I – Item 3 – Legal Proceedings.” and that we settled in 2012. We incurred significant costs for restructuring our operations in 2013 and in connection with restating our financial statements. We have incurred, and are likely to continue to incur, additional significant costs for legal proceedings, the Restatement and restructuring activities in 2014. Further, we anticipate continuing to incur significant additional costs for technology to improve the quality and reliability of the processes used to secure patient health information. We intend to continue to increase our operating expenses associated with sales and marketing in future years in an effort to expand our business. If our revenue does not increase to offset these increases in costs, our operating results would be adversely affected. You should not consider our historical operating results as indicative of future operating results, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Each of the risks described in this “Risk Factors” section, as well as other factors, may adversely affect our future operating results. Litigation has materially adversely affected our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows and caused unfavorable publicity and is likely to continue to do so. We were named as a defendant in a lawsuit filed in January 2012 by the Minnesota Attorney General alleging violations of federal and Minnesota state health privacy laws and regulations, Minnesota debt collection laws and Minnesota consumer protection laws resulting from, among other things, the theft in Minnesota in 2011 of an employee’s laptop that contained PHI. In addition, in April 2012, the Attorney General released to the public a “Compliance Review” alleging, or raising questions about, our non-compliance with federal and Minnesota health privacy laws, the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act, EMTALA, federal and Minnesota debt 19 Table of Contents collections laws and Minnesota consumer protection laws. All disputes with the Minnesota Attorney General (and related investigations by the Minnesota Department of Commerce and Minnesota Department of Human Services) were fully and finally resolved in a Settlement Agreement, Release, and Consent Order dated July 30, 2012, without any admission of liability or wrongdoing by us. There have been other inquiries related to these matters, including one by the FTC. On December 31, 2013, without any admission of liability or wrongdoing and without payment of any monetary penalty or fine, we entered into a Consent Order agreement with the FTC to resolve the FTC’s investigation. Pursuant to the Consent Order, we agreed, among other things, to maintain a comprehensive information security program reasonably designed to protect the security, confidentiality and integrity of personal information collected from or about consumers. A 30-day comment period related to the Consent Order expired on January 30, 2014 and the FTC gave final approval to the Consent Order on February 24, 2014. If we fail to maintain a comprehensive information security program, we may be subject to future inquiries or litigation. The Minnesota-related legal matters and related inquiries led to several securities-related class action and derivative lawsuits. The securities-related class actions were settled within the limits of our insurance coverage while the derivative suits remain pending. The Restatement has also led to litigation. A securities-related class action lawsuit has been filed and amended against us, a current director, and certain of our former officers in connection with the Restatement. The SEC’s Division of Enforcement in the Chicago Regional Office is also conducting an investigation regarding the circumstances surrounding the Restatement. In addition, one of the Minnesota-related derivative suits was amended to include claims regarding the Restatement. These lawsuits and investigation are described in “Part I – Item 3 – Legal Proceedings.” The lawsuit and investigation have resulted in, and may lead to additional, unfavorable publicity for us and may have a disruptive effect upon the operation of our business and consume the time and attention of our senior management. In addition, we incurred substantial expenses in connection with these litigation matters, including substantial fees for attorneys. Although we maintain insurance that may provide coverage for some or all of these expenses, and we have given notice to our insurers of the claims, our insurers have responded by reserving their rights under the policies, including the rights to deny coverage under various policy exclusions. There is risk that the insurers will rescind the policies, that some or all of the claims will not be covered by such policies, or that, even if covered, our ultimate liability will exceed the available insurance. We are unable to predict the outcome of pending legal actions. The ultimate resolution of the securities class action lawsuit related to the Restatement and the pending derivative suits related to the Minnesota-related matters and the Restatement could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, financial condition or liquidity, and on the trading price of our common stock. The above matters and attendant publicity have resulted in widespread, unfavorable publicity for us and have materially adversely affected, and may continue to materially adversely affect, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows in various ways, including as follows: • in 2012, we and Fairview Health Services, or Fairview, decided to amend the RCM agreement between us to transition the management of the revenue cycle operations to Fairview leadership, and we received a notice of termination from Fairview of the population health solutions agreement between us. In December 2013, following mediation, we reached a confidential agreement to resolve all of our differences with Fairview; • in 2012, in connection with the settlement of the Minnesota Attorney General lawsuit, as disclosed in “Part I – Item 3 – Legal Proceedings,” we voluntarily agreed to cease all remaining operations in Minnesota and have wound down our operations with our Minnesota customers; • other customers have terminated or may seek to terminate or modify their service agreements with us; 20 Table of Contents • we believe that potential new customers have been deterred from entering into service agreements with us, and the terms on which we are able to enter into new service agreements, or renew agreements with existing customers, in the future may be less favorable to us; • the time and attention of management has been diverted from our business; • we have encountered increased difficulty in attracting and retaining employees; • we have incurred, and will continue to incur, substantial legal and other expenses in defending the pending and settled lawsuits; and • the remaining pending lawsuits could subject us to significant liability or result in significant settlement payments. In addition, other governmental authorities could initiate inquiries into our business practices, and additional lawsuits may be filed against us. Additional litigation could result in the incurrence of substantial additional expense, subject us to significant liability or result in significant settlement payments, further divert management’s attention from our business, and thereby materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Hospital systems affiliated with Ascension Health currently account for a significant portion of our net services revenue as well as our gross cash generated from contracting activities, and we have several other customers that have each accounted for 10% or more of our gross cash generated from contracting activities in past periods. The termination or expiration of our new master professional services agreement with Ascension Health, or any significant loss of business from our large customers, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In August 2012, we entered into a new five-year master professional services agreement, or MPSA, with Ascension Health. Substantially all of the hospital systems affiliated with Ascension Health for which we previously conducted RCM operations have opted in to the MPSA by executing a new supplement agreement with us. Under our prior master services agreement with Ascension Health dated December 31, 2007, which we refer to as the Legacy Agreement, we continue to provide services to one hospital system and one physician group affiliated with Ascension Health that did not execute new supplement agreements with us. In addition we ceased providing services to one other customer under the Legacy Agreement in the second quarter of 2014, which customer did not execute a supplement agreement with us. Hospital systems affiliated with Ascension Health have accounted for a significant portion of our net services revenue each year since our formation. In 2013, 2012 and 2011, net services revenue from hospitals affiliated with Ascension Health represented 73%, 5% and 6% of our total net services revenue, respectively, in such periods. Additionally, in 2013, 2012 and 2011, gross cash generated from customer contracting activities, as defined in Part I – Item 6 – Selected Consolidated Financial Data, with hospital systems affiliated with Ascension Health represented 42%, 47% and 50%, respectively, of our total gross cash generated from contracting activities in such periods. St. John Health (an affiliate of Ascension Health) individually accounted for 28%, 1% and 3% of our total net services revenue and 7%, 10% and 12% of our gross cash generated from contracting activities in 2013, 2012 and 2011. Additionally, in 2013, Borgess Health (another affiliate of Ascension Health) individually accounted for 12% of our total net services revenue and 5% of our gross cash generated from contracting activities. In light of the fact that we only recognize revenues for our RCM services upon the expiration or termination of the underlying RCM customer contract, or upon other defined events in accordance with our revenue recognition policies, we believe that gross cash generated from contracting activities is a more meaningful measure of our significant customers in any given period than their respective contributions to consolidated revenue during such period. Our revenue recognition policies can result in cash flow accumulations from RCM activities over three to five years prior to a revenue recognition event, and consolidated net revenues that are 21 Table of Contents inconsistent with the cash flows from the same underlying operations. We do not believe that the loss of any of our other customers that accounted for greater than ten percent of our consolidated revenues in 2011, 2012 or 2013 would have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial results. Any of our other customers, including hospital systems affiliated with Ascension Health, can elect not to renew their managed services agreements with us upon expiration. We intend to seek renewal of all managed service agreements with our customers, but cannot assure you that any of them will be renewed or that the terms upon which they may be renewed will be as favorable to us as the terms of the initial managed services agreements. The termination of our New Ascension Health Agreement, the loss of any of our other large customers or their failure to renew their managed services agreements with us upon expiration, or a reduction in the fees for our services for these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The early termination of certain customer agreements, including certain customer agreement terminations in connection with the Minnesota-related legal matters described above, during 2013 and 2012 has adversely affected our financial results. In 2012, we and Fairview decided to amend the revenue cycle operations agreement between us to transition the management of those operations to Fairview leadership and we received from Fairview a notice of termination of the population health solutions agreement between us. Fairview accounted for 8%, 5% and 6% of our net services revenue in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and for, 8%, 2% and 8% of our gross cash received from contracting activities in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. In connection with the settlement of the Minnesota Attorney General lawsuit as described in “Part I – Item 3 – Legal Proceedings,” we agreed to voluntarily cease all remaining operations in Minnesota and wound down our operations with one of our Minnesota based physician advisory services customers and our two Minnesota based revenue cycle customers, one of which, Fairview, was also a population health solutions customer. In addition, during 2013 and 2012, we reached settlement agreements with two other customers which provided for early terminations of those customers’ agreements. The loss of the customer agreements noted above adversely affected our operating results in 2013 and 2012 and will negatively impact our revenues and operating results through 2016 when the initial term under the last of these customer agreements would have reached its normal expiration. If we are unable to retain our existing customers or acquire new customers, our financial condition will suffer. Our success depends in part upon the retention of our customers, particularly Ascension Health and its affiliated hospitals, and our ability to acquire new customers. We derive our net services revenue primarily from managed services agreements pursuant to which we receive performance-based fees. Customers can elect not to renew their managed services agreements with us upon expiration. If a managed services agreement is not renewed for any reason, we would not derive the financial benefits that we would expect to derive by serving that customer beyond the initial term of our managed services agreement. If a managed services agreement is terminated for any reason, including for example, if we are found to be in violation of certain federal or state laws or excluded from participating in federal and state healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, we will not receive the payments we would have otherwise anticipated receiving over the life of the agreement. Some of our managed services agreements require us to adhere to extensive, complex data security, network access and other institutional procedures and requirements of our customers, and we cannot guaranty that some of our customers will not allege that we have not complied with all such procedures and requirements. If we breach a managed services agreement or, for certain of our managed services agreements, fail to perform in accordance with contractual service levels, we may be liable to the customer for damages, and either we or the customer may generally terminate an agreement for a material uncured breach by the other. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 22 Table of Contents Ascension Health and another healthcare organization with multiple affiliates that contract with us individually under a master services agreement can also terminate their agreements with us if the receipt of services under the agreement causes or will cause a material negative impact to the customer’s brand, reputation or operations, in such customer’s good faith estimation, because of the manner in which we provided services for it or any other customer. In addition, financial issues or other changes in customer circumstances, such as a customer change in control (including as a result of increasing consolidation within the healthcare provider industry), may cause us or the customer to seek to modify or terminate a managed services agreement. Increasing consolidation within the healthcare provider industry may also make it more difficult for us to acquire new customers, as consolidated healthcare systems may be more likely to have incumbent revenue cycle management providers or significant internal revenue cycle capabilities. For example, certain of our smaller customers have been acquired by larger healthcare systems and ceased to be customers. In 2014, two of our customers provided us with notices of termination of their respective RCM agreements with us, in accordance with the terms of those agreements. As a result of those notices, one such agreement terminated in the second quarter of 2014 and the other terminated in the third quarter of 2014. However, one of those customers entered into a new managed services agreement with us to provide revenue cycle services under new terms following the termination of its existing agreement. Also in 2014, our RCM agreement with another customer expired, although we currently continue to provide certain services to that customer under the RCM agreement in connection with the resolution of specified third-party payer accounts receivable in exchange for a fixed fee. We also entered into a new master services agreement with that customer pursuant to which we are providing certain specified RCM services. Our agreements with certain customers require us to offer to such customer service fees that are at least as low as the fees we charge any other customer receiving comparable services at comparable or lower volumes. Our MPSA with Ascension Health requires us to offer to Ascension Health’s affiliated hospital systems fees for our services that are at least as low as the fees we charge any other customer receiving comparable services at lower volumes. If we were to charge lower service fees to any other customer receiving comparable services at lower volumes, we would be obligated to charge such lower fees to the hospital systems affiliated with Ascension Health effective as of the date such lower charges were first implemented for such other customer. Additionally, our RCM agreement with another customer requires us to provide that customer with a gain sharing incentive rate that is as low as the rate provided to any new customer. If we offer customers lower rates than as discussed above, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our agreements with hospital systems affiliated with Ascension Health and with some other customers include provisions that could impede or delay our ability to enter into managed services agreements with new customers. Under the terms of our agreement with Ascension Health, we cannot begin to negotiate the provision of services to certain designated competitors that are in close proximity to a hospital affiliated with Ascension Health that has executed a supplement agreement with us until we have informed and discussed the situation with such Ascension Health affiliate. In addition, our managed services agreement with one customer not affiliated with Ascension Health requires us to consult with such customer before providing services to competitors specified by such customer. The obligations described above could impede or delay our ability to enter into managed services agreements with new customers. 23 Table of Contents The markets for our RCM service offering may develop more slowly than we expect and some potential customers for our services have been and may in the future be deterred by the lawsuit initiated against us by the Minnesota Attorney General, the Restatement, and legal proceedings resulting from these challenges, and because they previously have made or in the future will make investments in internally developed solutions and choose to continue to rely on their own internal resources, which could adversely affect our revenue and our ability to achieve or maintain our profitability. Our success depends, in part, on the willingness of hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers to implement integrated solutions for the areas in which we provide services. Some hospitals may be reluctant or unwilling to implement our solutions for a number of reasons, including failure to perceive the need for improved revenue cycle operations or lack of knowledge about the potential benefits our solutions provide. In addition, some potential customers for our services may be deterred by the lawsuit initiated against us by the Minnesota Attorney General that we settled in 2012, or the Restatement, and the resulting related legal proceedings. Even if potential customers recognize the need to improve revenue cycle operations, they may not select solutions such as ours because they previously have made or in the future will make investments in internally developed solutions and choose to continue to rely on their own internal resources. As a result, the markets for integrated, end-to-end revenue cycle management services may develop more slowly than we expect, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating results. Our business operations currently include the collection, on behalf of our customers, of medical co-pays and other payments that are due to our customers from their patients. This business practice has been perceived negatively by the public and this negative perception has adversely affected (and may continue to adversely affect) our business, results of operations and financial condition. We currently collect, on behalf of our customers, medical co-pays and other non-defaulted payments that are due to our customers from their patients, pursuant to managed services agreements with our customers. Collection of these payments from patients may become a more significant part of our RCM services as industry trends continue to increase patient responsibility as a percentage of total compensation to healthcare providers. This business practice, which has received widespread, unfavorable publicity as a result of the lawsuit initiated against us by the Minnesota Attorney General that we settled in 2012 and resulting related legal proceedings, has been negatively perceived by the public and has led us to change aspects of our business practices, made it more difficult to retain existing customers and attract new customers, extended the time it takes to enter into service agreements with new customers, and resulted in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and it may continue to do so. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our current or future competitors may be able to compete more effectively than we do, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue, growth rates and market share. The market for our solutions is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. The rapid changes in the U.S. healthcare market due to financial pressures to reduce the growth in healthcare costs and from regulatory and legislative initiatives such as the ACA are increasing the level of competition. We face competition from a steady stream of new entrants, including the internal RCM staff of hospitals, as described above, and external participants. External participants that are our competitors in the revenue cycle market include software vendors and other technology-supported RCM business process outsourcing companies; traditional consultants; and information technology outsourcers. These types of external participants also compete with us in the field of population health solutions and physician advisory services (which services are being integrated into our RCM service offering). Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, regulations or customer requirements. We may not be able to compete successfully with these companies, and these or other competitors may introduce technologies or services that render our technologies or services obsolete or less marketable. Even if our technologies and services are more effective than the offerings of our competitors, current or potential 24 Table of Contents customers might prefer competitive technologies or services to our technologies and services. Increased competition is likely to result in pricing pressures, which could adversely affect our margins, growth rate or market share. We face a selling cycle of variable length to secure new RCM agreements, making it difficult to predict the timing of specific new customer relationships. We face a selling cycle of variable length, typically spanning six to 18 months or longer, to secure a new managed services agreement. Even if we succeed in developing a relationship with a potential new customer, we may not be successful in entering into a managed services agreement with that customer. In addition, we cannot accurately predict the timing of entering into managed services agreements with new customers due to the complex procurement decision processes of most healthcare providers, which often involves high-level or committee approvals. Consequently, we have only a limited ability to predict the timing of specific new customer relationships. Moreover, we believe that the unfavorable publicity we received as a result of the lawsuit initiated against us by the Minnesota Attorney General that we settled in 2012, the Restatement, and the resulting related legal proceedings have reduced our attractiveness to some potential healthcare providers and consequently, have resulted in the lengthening of the selling cycle with potential new customers. Delayed or unsuccessful implementation of our technologies or services with our customers or implementation costs that exceed our expectations may harm our financial results. To implement our solutions, we work with our customer’s existing vendors, management and staff and layer our proprietary technology applications on top of the customer’s existing patient accounting and clinical systems. Each customer’s situation is different, and unanticipated difficulties and delays may arise such as delays in, or the inability to, obtain approvals or access rights from our customers’ vendors. If the implementation process is not executed successfully or is delayed, our relationship with the customer may be adversely affected and our results of operations could suffer. Implementation of our solutions also requires us to integrate our own employees into the customer’s operations. The customer’s circumstances may require us to devote a larger number of our employees than anticipated, which could increase our costs and harm our financial results. Our quarterly results of operations and cash flows fluctuate as a result of many factors, some of which may be outside of our control. Our revenues fluctuate and will continue to fluctuate widely from quarter to quarter based on revenue recognition criteria under GAAP. In addition, the timing of any new customer additions is not likely to be uniform throughout the year, which can also cause fluctuations in our quarterly results. Operating costs are typically higher in quarters in which we add new customers because we incur expenses to implement our operating model at those customers. Further, fees billable to customers under many of our managed services agreements experience fluctuations as they are tied contractually to the level of our customers’ cash receipts. Fees have a significant effect on our cash flows, and changes in the amount of fees can cause significant fluctuations in our quarter-to-quarter operating cash flows. Our cash flows can also be impacted by the timing of operating costs. Our restructuring activities may negatively impact our operations. In the second quarter of 2013, we commenced a series of measures designed to better align our operational structure and to improve efficiency. As part of these measures, we recorded approximately $5.2 million of restructuring costs in 2013, consisting primarily of employee separation costs. In the first quarter of 2014, we commenced additional restructuring actions in order to allow us to more effectively and efficiently allocate necessary resources for innovation, invest in growth and enhance customer service, which included reductions in our workforce in certain corporate, administrative and management functions and the relocation of certain corporate functions from our headquarters in Chicago, Illinois. Additionally, in the fourth quarter of 2014, we commenced 25 Table of Contents further restructuring actions in order to align our organizational structure and resources to better support our primary business of revenue cycle management. As part of these actions, we expect to record approximately $5.3 million to $5.8 million in severance and employee benefits related expenses and $2.3 million to $2.8 million in facilities-related expenses in 2014. Reductions in personnel may adversely affect or delay various sales, marketing and product development programs and activities and could have negative effects on our internal control over financial reporting. These restructuring activities could be disruptive to our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial results. If we lose key personnel or if we are unable to attract, hire, integrate and retain our key personnel and other necessary employees, our business could be harmed. Our future success depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, integrate and retain key personnel. Our future success also depends in part on the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key personnel, each of whom may be difficult to replace. The loss of services of any of our executive officers or key personnel, or the inability to continue to attract qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, particularly as a result of our recent and ongoing restructuring activities. Competition for the caliber and number of employees we require is intense. We may face difficulty identifying and hiring qualified personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training each of our employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them. If we fail to retain our employees, we could incur significant expenses in hiring, integrating and training their replacements, and the quality of our services and our ability to serve our customers could diminish, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business. The imposition of legal responsibility for obligations related to our employees or our customers’ employees could adversely affect our business and subject us to liability. Under our agreements with customers, we work with our customers’ employees engaged in the activities included in the scope of our services. Our managed services agreements establish the division of responsibilities between us and our customers for various personnel management matters, including compliance with and liability under various employment laws and regulations. We could, nevertheless, be found to have liability with our customers for actions against or by employees of our customers, including under various employment laws and regulations, such as those relating to discrimination, retaliation, wage and hour matters, occupational safety and health, family and medical leave, notice of facility closings and layoffs and labor relations, as well as similar liability with respect to our own employees, and any such liability could result in a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to manage our operations effectively, our business would be harmed. We have not always been fully successful in managing the expansion of our operations which has led, at times to some customer dissatisfaction and weaknesses in our operating, internal and financial controls. To manage potential future growth, we will need to hire, integrate and retain highly skilled and motivated employees, and will need to work effectively with a growing number of customer employees engaged in revenue cycle operations. We will also need to continue to improve our financial, internal and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. If we do not effectively manage our operations, we may not be able to execute on our business plan, respond to competitive pressures, take advantage of market opportunities, satisfy customer requirements or maintain high-quality service offerings. Disruptions in service or damage to our shared services centers and third-party operated data centers could adversely affect our business. Our shared services centers and third-party operated data centers are essential to our business. Our operations depend on our ability to operate our shared services centers, and to maintain and protect our 26 Table of Contents applications, which are located in data centers that are operated for us by third parties. We cannot control or assure the continued or uninterrupted availability of these third-party data centers. In addition, our information technologies and systems, as well as our data centers and shared services centers, are vulnerable to damage or interruption from various causes, including (1) acts of God and other natural disasters, war and acts of terrorism and (2) power losses, computer systems failures, internet and telecommunications or data network failures, operator error, losses of and corruption of data and similar events. We have a business continuity plan and maintain insurance against fires, floods, other natural disasters and general business interruptions to mitigate the adverse effects of a disruption, relocation or change in operating environment at one of our data centers or shared services centers, but the situations we plan for and the amount of insurance coverage we maintain may not be adequate in every particular case. In addition, the occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays or cessations in service to our customers, or in interruptions, delays or cessations in the direct connections we establish between our customers and third-party payers. Any of these events could impair or inhibit our ability to provide our services, reduce the attractiveness of our services to current or potential customers and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, despite the implementation of security measures, our infrastructure, data centers, shared services centers or systems that we interface with, including the internet and related systems, may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, hackers, improper employee or contractor access, computer viruses, programming errors, denial-of-service attacks or other attacks by third parties seeking to disrupt operations or misappropriate information or similar physical or electronic breaches of security. Any of these can cause system failure, including network, software or hardware failure, which can result in service disruptions. As a result, we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches and hackers or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. If our security measures are breached or fail and unauthorized access is obtained to a customer’s data, our service may be perceived as not being secure, the attractiveness of our services to current or potential customers may be reduced, and we may incur significant liabilities. Our services involve the storage and transmission of customers’ proprietary information and protected health, financial, payment and other personal information of patients. We rely on proprietary and commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring, as well as other processes, to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of such information, and because of the sensitivity of this information, the effectiveness of such security efforts is very important. The systems currently used for transmission and approval of credit card transactions, and the technology utilized in credit cards themselves, all of which can put credit card data at risk, are determined and controlled by the payment card industry, not by us. If our security measures are breached or fail as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, someone may be able to obtain unauthorized access to customer or patient data. Improper activities by third parties, advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and discoveries and other events or developments may facilitate or result in a compromise or breach of our computer systems. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. Our security measures may not be effective in preventing these types of activities, and the security measures of our third-party data centers and service providers may not be adequate. If a breach of our security occurs, we could face damages for contract breach, penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations, possible lawsuits by individuals affected by the breach and significant remediation costs and efforts to prevent future occurrences. In addition, whether there is an actual or a perceived breach of our security, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose current or potential customers. 27 Table of Contents We may be liable to our customers or third parties if we make errors in providing our services, and our anticipated net services revenue may be lower if we provide poor service. The services we offer are complex, and we make errors from time to time. Errors can result from the interface of our proprietary technology applications and a customer’s existing technologies or we may make human errors in any aspect of our service offerings. The costs incurred in correcting any material errors may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results. Our customers, or third parties such as our customers’ patients, may assert claims against us alleging that they suffered damages due to our errors, and such claims could subject us to significant legal defense costs in excess of our existing insurance coverage and adverse publicity regardless of the merits or eventual outcome of such claims. In addition, if we provide poor service to a customer and the customer therefore realizes less improvement in revenue yield, the incentive fee payments to us from that customer will be lower than anticipated. We offer our services in many jurisdictions and, therefore, may be subject to federal, state and local taxes that could harm our business or that we may have inadvertently failed to pay. We may lose sales or incur significant costs should various tax jurisdictions be successful in imposing taxes on a broader range of services. Imposition of such taxes on our services could result in substantial unplanned costs, would effectively increase the cost of such services to our customers and may adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers or to gain new customers in the areas in which such taxes are imposed. Our growing operations in India expose us to risks that could have a material adverse effect on our costs of operations. We employ a significant number of persons in India and expect to continue to add personnel in India. While there are cost and service advantages to operating in India, significant growth in the technology sector in India has increased competition to attract and retain skilled employees and has led to a commensurate increase in compensation expense. In the future, we may not be able to hire and retain such personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure in India. In addition, our reliance on a workforce in India exposes us to disruptions in the business, political and economic environment in that region. Maintenance of a stable political environment is important to our operations, and terrorist attacks and acts of violence or war may directly affect our physical facilities and workforce or contribute to general instability. Our operations in India require us to comply with local laws and regulatory requirements, which are complex and of which we may not always be aware, and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk. Our Indian operations may also subject us to trade restrictions, reduced or inadequate protection for intellectual property rights, security breaches and other factors that may adversely affect our business. Negative developments in any of these areas could increase our costs of operations or otherwise harm our business. Negative public perception in the United States regarding offshore outsourcing and proposed legislation may increase the cost of delivering our services. Offshore outsourcing is a politically sensitive topic in the United States. For example, various organizations and public figures in the United States have expressed concern about a perceived association between offshore outsourcing providers and the loss of jobs in the United States. In addition, there has been recent publicity about the negative experience of certain companies that use offshore outsourcing, particularly in India. Current or prospective customers may elect to perform such services themselves or may be discouraged from transferring these services from onshore to offshore providers to avoid negative perceptions that may be associated with using an offshore provider. Any slowdown or reversal of existing industry trends towards offshore outsourcing would increase the cost of delivering our services if we had to relocate aspects of our services from India to the United States where operating costs are higher. Legislation in the United States may be enacted that is intended to discourage or restrict offshore outsourcing. In the United States, federal and state legislation has been proposed, and enacted in several states, that could restrict or discourage U.S. companies from outsourcing their services to companies outside the 28 Table of Contents United States. It is possible that legislation could be adopted that would restrict U.S. private sector companies that have federal or state government contracts, or that receive government funding or reimbursement, such as Medicare or Medicaid payments, from outsourcing their services to offshore service providers. Any changes to existing laws or the enactment of new legislation restricting offshore outsourcing in the United States may adversely affect our ability to do business, particularly if these changes are widespread, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Regulatory Risks The healthcare industry is heavily regulated. Our failure to comply with regulatory requirements could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity and adversely affect our business. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated and is subject to changing political, legislative, regulatory and other influences. Many healthcare laws are complex, and their application to specific services and relationships may not be clear. In particular, many existing healthcare laws and regulations, when enacted, did not anticipate the services that we provide. There can be no assurance that our operations will not be challenged or adversely affected by enforcement initiatives. Enforcement activity is growing and is an identified priority of federal and state governments. Our failure to accurately anticipate the application of these laws and regulations to our business, or any other failure to comply with regulatory requirements, could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity and adversely affect our business. Federal and state legislatures and agencies frequently consider proposals to revise laws that impact the healthcare industry or to revise or create additional statutory and regulatory requirements. Such proposals, if implemented, could adversely affect our operations, the attractiveness of our services to existing customers and our ability to market new services, or could create unexpected liabilities for us. We are unable to predict what changes to laws or regulations might be made in the future or how those changes could affect our business or our operating costs. Developments in the healthcare industry, including national healthcare reform, could adversely affect our business. The healthcare industry has changed significantly in recent years and we expect that significant changes will continue to occur. The timing and impact of developments in the healthcare industry are difficult to predict. We cannot be sure that the markets for our services will continue to exist at current levels or that we will have adequate technical, financial and marketing resources to react to changes in those markets. Many of the provisions of the ACA, which was enacted in 2010, first became effective in 2014. Therefore, it is not yet possible for us to accurately predict if, or how, these changes will impact our ability to develop increases in revenue yield for our customers, encourage more companies to enter our market, provide advantages to our competitors and result in the development of solutions that compete with ours. Moreover, healthcare reform remains a major policy issue at the federal level, and amendments to or the repeal of the existing legislation and additional healthcare legislation in the future could have adverse consequences for us or the customers we serve. Other material changes, such as the required transition by October 1, 2015 to ICD-10 will impose significant system and business changes throughout the healthcare industry, and could be disruptive to our customers and our business. Such disruption could result in, among other things, the imposition of significant new challenges to our ability to achieve performance targets specified under our customer contracts, as well as a need for us to redeploy resources or to obtain new resources in an effort to meet such challenges, all of which could adversely affect our business or our results of operations. Additionally, several reductions or changes to Medicare reimbursement have been enacted recently or will be implemented (such as the federal government sequestration reductions), which reductions and changes could reduce the amounts received by our customers and may have an adverse indirect effect on our business. In addition, one aspect of the 2014 Medicare hospital inpatient prospective payment system final rule, or the Two- Midnight Rule, generally permits hospitals to classify Medicare patients as inpatients for billing purposes only if a physician documents a reasonable expectation that the patient will require inpatient hospital care for a continuous duration that covers two midnights. Congress has also extended a moratorium on Recovery Auditor 29 Table of Contents Contractor, or RAC, audits of these billing classification decisions until March 2015. Many of our current and potential PAS customers believe that the combination of the Two-Midnight Rule and the congressional moratorium on RAC audits significantly simplifies many billing classification decisions and reduces risk associated with those decisions. As a result, the demand for our PAS offerings has declined substantially. Further, with CMS’ one time offer to pay out 68% on certain categories of pending appeals by providers, demand for PAS appeals services may continue to decline significantly. Healthcare reform also is causing the transition of some payment methods and provider reimbursement from volume-based reimbursement to value-based reimbursement models, which can include risk-sharing, accountable care organizations, capitation, bundled payment and other innovative approaches. While such new reimbursement models may provide us with opportunities to provide new or additional services to our customers (e.g., our value based reimbursement capabilities within our RCM services offering) and to participate in incentive based payment arrangements for our services, there can be no assurance that such new models and approaches will prove to be profitable to our customers or to us. Further, such new models and approaches may require investment by us to develop technology or expertise to offer necessary and appropriate services or support to our customers, and the amount of such investment and the timing for return of such investment are not fully known at this time due to the uncertainties of healthcare reform and payment and reimbursement model transitions that are occurring. Certain new care delivery and reimbursement models are being offered as pilot programs or as limited or transitional programs, and there is no assurance that such programs will continue or be renewed. Any of these models and approaches, and changes generally in the healthcare industry, can impact the relationships between our customers and third-party payers, from which our customers derive revenue and with which revenue our customers pay for our services. Adoption of such new models and approaches may require compliance with a range of federal and state laws relating to fraud and abuse, insurance, reinsurance and managed care regulation, billing and collection, corporate practice of medicine restrictions and licensing, among others. Many states in which these new value-based structures are being developed lack regulatory guidance or a well-developed body of law for these new models and approaches, or may not have updated their laws or enacted legislation yet to reflect the new healthcare reform models. As a result, although we have structured, and will attempt to structure and conduct, our operations in accordance with our interpretation of current laws and regulations, new laws, regulations or guidance could have a material adverse effect on our current and future operations and could subject us to the risk of restructuring or terminating our customer agreements and arrangements, as well as the risk of regulatory enforcement, penalties and sanctions, if state enforcement agencies disagree with our interpretation of state laws. If we violate HIPAA, the HITECH Act or state health information privacy laws, we may incur significant liabilities, and any such violations could make it more difficult to retain existing customers or attract new customers, extend the time it takes to enter into service agreements with new customers, and result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. HIPAA contains substantial restrictions and requirements with respect to the use and disclosure of individuals’ PHI. Under HIPAA, covered entities, including health plans, healthcare providers, and healthcare clearinghouses that conduct HIPAA-defined standard electronic transactions, are restricted in how they use and disclose PHI and must establish administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of electronic PHI maintained or transmitted by them or by others on their behalf. Most of our customers are covered entities and we are a business associate to many of those customers under HIPAA as a result of our contractual obligations to perform certain functions on behalf of, and to provide certain services to, those customers. As a business associate, we sometimes also act as a clearinghouse in performing certain functions for our customers. In addition, the Minnesota Attorney General’s lawsuit, which we settled in 2012, alleged that we are a “healthcare provider” as defined in HIPAA. Although we believe that we are not a healthcare provider, if we were found to be a healthcare provider, we could have liability under the provisions of HIPAA that apply to providers as well as under state health information privacy and licensing laws. Our use and disclosure of PHI is restricted by HIPAA and the business associate agreements we are required to enter into with our covered entity customers. 30 Table of Contents In 2009, HIPAA was amended by the HITECH Act to impose certain of the HIPAA privacy and security requirements directly upon business associates of covered entities and increase significantly the monetary penalties for violations of HIPAA. The HITECH Act also requires business associates to notify covered entities, who in turn must notify affected individuals and government authorities, of data security breaches involving unsecured PHI. Since the passage of the HITECH Act, enforcement of HIPAA violations has increased, as indicated by the announcement of a number of significant settlement agreements and/or sanctions by federal authorities, the pursuit of HIPAA violations by state attorneys general, and the roll-out of a new federal audit program for covered entities (which will in the future be extended to business associates). In addition to HIPAA, most states have enacted patient confidentiality laws that protect against the unauthorized disclosure of confidential medical information, and many states have adopted or are considering further legislation in this area, including privacy safeguards, security standards and data security breach notification requirements. Such state laws, if more stringent than HIPAA, are not preempted by the federal requirements, and we must comply with them even though such state laws may be subject to different interpretations by various courts and other governmental authorities. We have implemented and maintain physical, technical and administrative safeguards intended to protect all personal data and have processes in place to assist us in complying with applicable laws and regulations regarding the protection of this data and properly responding to any security incidents or breaches. We voluntarily sought, and received, HITRUST certification to help ensure compliance. A knowing breach of HIPAA’s requirements could expose us to criminal liability. A breach of our safeguards and processes that is not due to reasonable cause or involves willful neglect could expose us to significant civil penalties and the possibility of civil litigation under HIPAA and applicable state law. In 2011, a laptop computer used by one of our employees that contained PHI for patients of two customers was stolen. The laptop was password-protected but was not encrypted, in violation of company policy. We notified both customers of the 2011 theft, which customers in turn notified the affected individuals as well as the appropriate regulators. The Minnesota Attorney General subsequently initiated a lawsuit against us, which we settled in 2012, for, among other things, alleged violations of federal and Minnesota state health privacy laws and regulations arising from the laptop theft. Laptop computers used by our employees that contained PHI have also been stolen on other occasions. We do not believe that any patient data has been compromised as a result of any of these thefts. Nonetheless, these incidents have made it more difficult to retain existing customers and attract new customers. They have also extended the time it takes to enter into service agreements with new customers, and could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to comply with federal and state laws governing submission of false or fraudulent claims to government healthcare programs and financial relationships among healthcare providers, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties or loss of eligibility to participate in government healthcare programs. A number of federal and state laws, including anti-kickback restrictions and laws prohibiting the submission of false or fraudulent claims, apply to healthcare providers, physicians and others that make, offer, seek or receive payments or split fees for referrals of products or services that may be paid for through any federal or state healthcare program and, in some instances, any private program. These laws are complex and their application to our specific services and relationships may not be clear and may be applied to our business in ways that we do not anticipate. Federal and state regulatory and law enforcement authorities have recently increased enforcement activities with respect to Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse regulations and other healthcare reimbursement laws and rules. From time to time, participants in the healthcare industry receive inquiries or subpoenas to produce documents in connection with government investigations. We could be required to expend significant time and resources to comply with these requests, and the attention of our management team could be diverted by these efforts. Furthermore, if we are found to be in violation of any federal or state fraud and abuse laws, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, forced to restructure our business and excluded from participating in federal and state healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid which would result in significant harm to our business and financial condition. 31 Table of Contents The federal healthcare anti-kickback law prohibits any person or entity from offering, paying, soliciting or receiving anything of value, directly or indirectly, for the referral of patients covered by Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs or the leasing, purchasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending the lease, purchase or order of any item, good, facility or service covered by these programs. Many states have adopted similar prohibitions against kickbacks and other practices that are intended to induce referrals, and some of these state laws are applicable to all patients regardless of whether the patient is covered under a governmental health program or private health plan. New payment structures, such as accountable care organizations and other arrangements involving combinations of hospitals, physicians and other providers who share payment savings, potentially implicate anti-kickback and other fraud and abuse laws. We seek to structure our business relationships and activities to avoid any activity that could be construed to implicate the federal healthcare anti-kickback law and similar laws. We cannot assure you, however, that our arrangements and activities will be deemed outside the scope of these laws or that increased enforcement activities will not directly or indirectly have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any determination by a federal or state agency or court that we have violated any of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, could require us to change or terminate some portions of our operations or business, could disqualify us from providing services to healthcare providers doing business with government programs, could give our customers the right to terminate our managed services agreements with them and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Moreover, any violations by, and resulting penalties or exclusions imposed upon, our customers could adversely affect their financial condition and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. There are also numerous federal and state laws that forbid submission of false information or the failure to disclose information in connection with the submission and payment of healthcare provider claims for reimbursement. In particular, the federal FCA, prohibits a person from knowingly presenting or causing to be presented a false or fraudulent claim for payment or approval by an officer, employee or agent of the United States. In addition, the FCA prohibits a person from knowingly making, using, or causing to be made or used a false record or statement material to such a claim. The FCA may be enforced by the government or by private whistleblowers under the “qui tam” provisions of the statute. Whistleblowers are entitled to a share of any recovery in a FCA case. Changes to the FCA enacted as part of the ACA make it easier for whistleblowers to bring FCA claims. Violations of the FCA may result in treble damages, significant monetary penalties, and other collateral consequences including, potentially, exclusion from participation in federally funded healthcare programs. The scope and implications of the amendments to the FCA pursuant to the FERA have yet to be fully determined or adjudicated and as a result it is difficult to predict how future enforcement initiatives may affect our business. These laws and regulations may change rapidly, and it is frequently unclear how they apply to our business. Errors created by our proprietary applications or services that relate to entry, formatting, preparation or transmission of claim or cost report information may be determined or alleged to cause the submission of false claims or otherwise be in violation of these laws and regulations. Any failure of our proprietary applications or services to comply with these laws and regulations could result in substantial civil or criminal liability and could, among other things, adversely affect demand for our services, invalidate all or portions of some of our managed services agreements with our customers, require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, require us to refund portions of our base fee revenues and incentive payment revenues, cause us to be disqualified from serving customers doing business with government payers, and give our customers the right to terminate our managed services agreements with them, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 32 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that governmental officials responsible for enforcing EMTALA, or other parties, will not assert that our customers are in violation of EMTALA, and defending and settling allegations of EMTALA violations could have a material adverse effect on our business even if we are ultimately not found to have contributed to such violations. EMTALA requires Medicare-participating hospitals that have emergency departments to provide a medical screening examination and stabilizing treatment to all individuals who come to the hospital seeking treatment of an emergency medical condition, regardless of the patient’s ability to pay for the care. Sanctions for failing to fulfill these requirements include exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs and civil monetary penalties. In addition, the law creates private civil remedies that enable an individual who suffers personal harm as a direct result of a violation of the law to sue the offending hospital for damages and equitable relief. In 2012, the Minnesota Attorney General’s “Compliance Review” described circumstances raising potential EMTALA concerns at Fairview and raised questions as to whether our practices contributed to any such violations. An investigation by the Minnesota Department of Health on behalf of the federal government concluded in September 2012 that Fairview had violated EMTALA and required Fairview to implement a corrective action plan. Since we are not a healthcare provider, EMTALA is not applicable to us, but we cannot be certain that governmental officials responsible for enforcing EMTALA, or other parties, will not assert that our other customers are in violation of EMTALA. If our customers are found to have violated EMTALA, they may assert claims that our management practices contributed to the violation. Defending and settling allegations of EMTALA violations could have a material adverse effect on our business even if we are ultimately not found guilty of a violation. Our failure to comply with debt collection and other consumer protection laws and regulations could subject us to fines and other liabilities, which could harm our reputation and business, and could make it more difficult to retain existing customers or attract new customers, extend the time it takes to enter into service agreements with new customers, and result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The FDCPA regulates persons who regularly collect or attempt to collect, directly or indirectly, consumer debts in default that are owed or asserted to be owed to another person. However, our business practices that involve collecting, or assisting our customers in collecting, non-defaulted amounts owed by patients for current and prior services activities may be determined to be subject to the FDCPA. Many states impose additional requirements on debt collection communications, and some of those requirements may be more stringent than the federal requirements. Moreover, regulations governing debt collection are subject to changing interpretations that may be inconsistent among different jurisdictions. Further, we are subject to the TCPA, which imposes certain restrictions on companies that place telephone calls to consumers. We could incur costs or could be subject to fines or other penalties under the TCPA, the FDCPA and the FTC Act if we are determined to have violated the provisions of those regulations during the course of conducting our operations. We, or our customers, could be required to report such breaches to affected consumers or regulatory authorities, leading to disclosures that could damage our reputation or harm our business, financial position and operating results. As a result of the 2011 laptop theft giving rise to the Minnesota Attorney General’s lawsuit and the related FTC inquiry of our data security practices, in December 2013, we entered into a consent order with the FTC pursuant to which no fine or penalty was paid but in which we agreed, among other things, to maintain a comprehensive information security program reasonably designed to protect the security, confidentiality, and integrity of personal information collected from or about consumers. Future allegations of this type could require us to change aspects of our business practices, make it more difficult to retain existing customers or attract new customers, extend the time it takes to enter into service agreements with new customers, and result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 33 Table of Contents Potential additional regulation of the disclosure of health information outside the United States may increase our costs. Federal or state governmental authorities may impose additional data security standards or additional privacy or other restrictions on the collection, use, transmission and other disclosures of health information. Legislation has been proposed at various times at both the federal and the state levels that would limit, forbid or regulate the use or transmission of medical information pertaining to U.S. patients outside of the United States. Such legislation, if adopted, may render our operations in India impracticable or substantially more expensive. Moving such operations to the United States may involve substantial delay in implementation and increased costs. Risks Related to Intellectual Property We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to establish, protect and enforce our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. If we fail to establish or protect our intellectual property rights, we may lose an important advantage in the market in which we compete. We rely upon a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret law and contractual terms and conditions to protect our intellectual property rights, all of which provide only limited protection. We cannot assure you that our intellectual property rights are sufficient to protect our competitive advantages. Although we have filed seven U.S. patent applications, we cannot assure you that any patents that will be issued from these applications will provide us with the protection that we seek or that any future patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We have also been issued three U.S. patents, but we cannot assure you that they will provide us with the protection that we seek or that they will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of patents are uncertain. Any patents that may be issued in the future from pending or future patent applications or our three issued patents may not provide sufficiently broad protection or they may not prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. Also, we cannot assure you that any trademark registrations will be issued for pending or future applications or that any of our trademarks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights. We also rely in some circumstances on trade secrets to protect our technology. Trade secrets may lose their value if not properly protected. We endeavor to enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, customers, contractors and business partners to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. The steps we have taken, however, may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology, and adequate remedies may not be available in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and proprietary technology. Moreover, others may reverse engineer or independently develop technologies that are competitive to ours or infringe our intellectual property. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our intellectual property and using our technology for their competitive advantage. Any such infringement or misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Monitoring infringement of our intellectual property rights can be difficult and costly, and enforcement of our intellectual property rights may require us to bring legal actions against infringers. Infringement actions are inherently uncertain and therefore may not be successful, even when our rights have been infringed, and even if successful may require a substantial amount of resources and divert our management’s attention. Claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property could force us to incur significant costs or revise the way we conduct our business. Our competitors protect their intellectual property rights by means such as patents, trade secrets, copyrights and trademarks. We have not conducted an independent review of patents issued to third parties. Additionally, 34 Table of Contents because patent applications in the United States and many other jurisdictions are kept confidential for 18 months before they are published, we may be unaware of pending patent applications that relate to our proprietary technology. Although we have not been involved in any litigation related to intellectual property rights of others, from time to time we receive letters from other parties alleging, or inquiring about, possible breaches of their intellectual property rights. Any party asserting that we infringe its proprietary rights would force us to defend ourselves, and possibly our customers, against the alleged infringement. These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights or interruption or cessation of our operations. The software and technology industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Moreover, the risk of such a lawsuit will likely increase as our size and scope of our services and technology platforms increase, as our geographic presence and market share expand and as the number of competitors in our market increases. Any such claims or litigation could: • be time-consuming and expensive to defend, whether meritorious or not; • require us to stop providing the services that use the technology that infringes the other party’s intellectual property; • divert the attention of our technical and managerial resources; • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with third parties, which may not be available on terms that we deem acceptable, if at all; • prevent us from operating all or a portion of our business or force us to redesign our services and technology platforms, which could be difficult and expensive and may make the performance or value of our service offerings less attractive; • subject us to significant liability for damages or result in significant settlement payments; or • require us to indemnify our customers, as we are required by contract to indemnify some of our customers for certain claims based upon the infringement or alleged infringement of any third party’s intellectual property rights resulting from our customers’ use of our intellectual property. Intellectual property litigation can be costly. Even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation could deplete our financial resources. Litigation is also time-consuming and could divert management’s attention and resources away from our business. Furthermore, during the course of litigation, confidential information may be disclosed in the form of documents or testimony in connection with discovery requests, depositions or trial testimony. Disclosure of our confidential information and our involvement in intellectual property litigation could materially adversely affect our business. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could significantly limit our ability to continue our operations and could harm our relationships with current and prospective customers. Any of the foregoing could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to the Ownership of Shares of Our Common Stock Our common stock has been delisted from the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, and is not listed on any other national securities exchange, which may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. Our common stock was suspended from trading on the NYSE prior to the opening of the market on March 17, 2014 (and subsequently delisted) and began trading under the symbol “ACHI” through the facilities of the OTC Markets Group, Inc. on that date. 35 Table of Contents We can provide no assurance that we will be able to relist our common stock on a national securities exchange or that the stock will continue being traded on the over-the-counter, or OTC, marketplace. The trading of our common stock on the OTC marketplace rather than the NYSE may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. Securities traded in the OTC market generally have significantly less liquidity than securities traded on a national securities exchange due to factors such as the reduced number of investors that will consider investing in the securities, the reduced number of market makers in the securities, and the reduced number of securities analysts that follow such securities. As a result, holders of our common stock may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. Furthermore, because of the limited market and low volume of trading in our common stock that could occur, the share price of our common stock could more likely be affected by broad market fluctuations, general market conditions, fluctuations in our operating results, changes in the market’s perception of our business, and announcements made by us, our competitors, parties with whom we have business relationships or third parties. The lack of liquidity in our common stock may also make it difficult for us to issue additional securities for financing or other purposes, or to otherwise arrange for any financing we may need in the future. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile. Since December 31, 2010, our common stock has traded at a price per share as high as $32.82 and as low as $6.92. The trading price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors. In addition to the risks described in this section, factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • the Restatement and the related SEC investigation; • fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; • changes in estimates of our financial results; • failure to meet expectations of securities analysts; • the loss of service agreements with customers; • lawsuits filed against us by governmental authorities or stockholders; • unfavorable publicity concerning our operations or business practices; • our common stock’s eligibility for stock exchange listing; • investors’ general perception of us; and • changes in general economic, industry, regulatory and market conditions. In addition, if the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. 36 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; • provide for a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following their election; • require that directors only be removed from office for cause and only upon a supermajority stockholder vote; • provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and • require supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws. We may not pay any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future. Although we paid cash dividends on our capital stock prior to our May 2010 initial public offering, or IPO, there is no assurance that we will pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any future dividend payments will be within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, capital expenditure requirements, contractual restrictions, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. We may not generate sufficient cash from operations in the future to pay dividends on our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 