Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We may not be able to maintain or increase our profitability, and our recent growth rates may not be indicative of our future growth rates. We have been profitable on an annual basis only since the year ended December 31, 2007, and we incurred net losses in the quarters ended March 31, 2007, December 31, 2007, March 31, 2008, December 31, 2008 and March 31, 2009. We may not succeed in maintaining our profitability on an annual basis and could incur quarterly or annual losses in future periods. We expect to incur additional operating expenses associated with being a public company and we intend to continue to increase our operating expenses as we grow our business. We also expect to continue to make investments in our proprietary technology applications, sales and marketing, infrastructure, facilities and other resources as we expand our operations, thus incurring additional costs. If our revenue does not increase to offset these increases in costs, our operating results would be negatively affected. You should not consider our historic revenue and net income growth rates as indicative of future growth rates. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase our profitability in the future. Each of the risks described in this “Risk Factors” section, as well as other factors, may affect our future operating results and profitability. 29 Table of Contents Hospitals affiliated with Ascension Health currently account for a majority of our net services revenue, and we have several customers that have each accounted for 10% or more of our net services revenue in past fiscal periods. The termination of our master services agreement with Ascension Health, or any significant loss of business from our large customers, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are party to a master services agreement with Ascension Health pursuant to which we provide services to its affiliated hospitals that execute separate managed service contracts with us. Hospitals affiliated with Ascension Health have accounted for a majority of our net services revenue each year since our formation. In the years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, aggregate revenue from hospitals affiliated with Ascension Health represented 70.7%, 60.3% and 50.7% of our net services revenue in such periods. In some fiscal periods, individual hospitals affiliated with Ascension Health have each accounted for 10% or more of our total net services revenue. For example, in the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, revenue from St. John Health (an affiliate of Ascension Health) was $66.5 million and $67.5 million, respectively, equal to 13.0% and 11.1%, respectively, of our total net services revenue. In addition, another customer, which is not affiliated with Ascension Health, accounted for 10.6% of our total net services revenue in the year ended December 31, 2008 but less than 10% of our total net services revenue in the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010. Additionally, Henry Ford Health System, which is not affiliated with Ascension Health and with which we entered into a managed service contract in 2009, accounted for 11.3% of our total net services revenue in the year ended December 31, 2010. Furthermore, Fairview Health Services, which is not affiliated with Ascension Health and with which we entered into a managed service contract in 2010, accounted for 10.7% of our total net services revenue in the year ended December 31, 2010. All of our managed service contracts with hospitals affiliated with Ascension Health will expire on December 31, 2012 unless renewed. Pursuant to our master services agreement with Ascension Health and our managed service contracts with hospitals affiliated with Ascension Health, our fees are subject to adjustment in the event quarterly cash collections at these hospitals deteriorate materially after we take over revenue cycle management operations. While these adjustments have never been triggered, if they were, our future fees from hospitals affiliated with Ascension Health would be reduced. In addition, any of our other customers, including hospitals affiliated with Ascension Health, can elect not to renew their managed service contracts with us upon expiration. We intend to seek renewal of all managed service contracts with our customers, but cannot assure you that all of them will be renewed or that the terms upon which they may be renewed will be as favorable to us as the terms of the initial managed service contracts. Our inability to renew the managed service contracts with hospitals affiliated with Ascension Health, the termination of our master services agreement with Ascension Health, the loss of any of our other large customers or their failure to renew their managed service contracts with us upon expiration, or a reduction in the fees for our services for these customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our master services agreement with Ascension Health requires us to offer to Ascension Health’s affiliated hospitals service fees that are at least as low as the fees we charge any other similarly situated customer receiving comparable services at comparable volumes. Our master services agreement with Ascension Health requires us to offer to Ascension Health’s affiliated hospitals fees for our services that are at least as low as the fees we charge any other similarly-situated customer receiving comparable services at comparable volumes. If we were to offer another similarly-situated customer receiving a comparable volume of comparable services fees that are lower than the fees paid by hospitals affiliated with Ascension Health, we would be obligated to offer such lower fees to hospitals affiliated with Ascension Health, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 30 Table of Contents Our agreements with hospitals affiliated with Ascension Health and with some other customers include provisions that could impede or delay our ability to enter into managed service contracts with new customers. Under the terms of our master services agreement with Ascension Health, we are required to consult with Ascension Health’s affiliated hospitals before undertaking services for competitors specified by them in the managed service contracts they execute with us. As a result, before we can begin to provide services to a specified competitor, we are required to inform and discuss the situation with the Ascension Health affiliated hospital that specified the competitor but are not required to obtain the consent of such hospital. In addition, we are required to obtain the consent of one customer not affiliated with Ascension Health before providing services to competitors specified by such customer. In another instance, our managed service contract with one other customer not affiliated with Ascension Health requires us to consult with such customer before providing services to competitors specified by such customer. The obligations described above could impede or delay our ability to enter into managed service contracts with new customers. The markets for our revenue cycle management and quality and total cost of care services may develop more slowly than we expect, which could adversely affect our revenue and our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. Our success depends, in part, on the willingness of hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers to implement integrated solutions that span the entire revenue cycle, which encompasses patient registration, insurance and benefit verification, medical treatment documentation and coding, bill preparation and collections. Our success also depends on healthcare providers’ willingness to move away from traditional fee-for-service payment systems and toward accountable care organizations and similar initiatives. Some hospitals may be reluctant or unwilling to implement our solutions for a number of reasons, including failure to perceive the need for improved revenue cycle operations and quality and total cost of care services, and lack of knowledge about the potential benefits our solutions provide. Even if potential customers recognize the need to improve revenue cycle operations and to more effectively manage the health of defined patient populations, they may not select solutions such as ours because they previously have made investments in internally developed solutions and choose to continue to rely on their own internal resources. As a result, the markets for integrated, end-to-end revenue cycle and quality and total cost of care solutions may develop more slowly than we expect, which could adversely affect our revenue and our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our current or future competitors may be able to compete more effectively than we do, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue, growth rates and market share. The market for revenue cycle management solutions is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. We face competition from a steady stream of new entrants, including the internal revenue cycle management staff of hospitals, as described above, and external participants. External participants that are our competitors in the revenue cycle market include software vendors and other technology-supported revenue cycle management business process outsourcing companies; traditional consultants; and information technology outsourcers. These types of external participants also compete with us in the field of quality and total cost of care. In addition, the commercial payor community has historically attempted to provide information or services that are intended to assist providers in reducing the total cost of medical care. They could attempt to develop similar programs again. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, regulations or customer requirements. We may not be able to compete successfully with these companies, and these or other competitors may introduce technologies or services that render our technologies or services obsolete or less marketable. Even if our technologies and services are more effective than the offerings of our competitors, current or potential customers might prefer competitive technologies or services to our technologies and services. Increased competition is likely to result in pricing pressures, which could negatively impact our margins, growth rate or market share. 31 Table of Contents If we are unable to retain our existing customers, our financial condition will suffer. Our success depends in part upon the retention of our customers, particularly Ascension Health and its affiliated hospitals. We derive our net services revenue primarily from managed service contracts pursuant to which we receive base fees and incentive payments. Customers can elect not to renew their managed service contracts with us upon expiration. If a managed service contract is not renewed or is terminated for any reason, including for example, if we are found to be in violation of any federal or state fraud and abuse laws or excluded from participating in federal and state healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, we will not receive the payments we would have otherwise received over the life of contract. In addition, financial issues or other changes in customer circumstances, such as a customer change in control, may cause us or the customer to seek to modify or terminate a managed service contract, and either we or the customer may generally terminate a contract for material uncured breach by the other. If we breach a managed service contract or fail to perform in accordance with contractual service levels, we may also be liable to the customer for damages. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We face a variable selling cycle to secure new revenue cycle and quality and total cost of care managed service contracts, making it difficult to predict the timing of specific new customer relationships. We face a variable selling cycle, typically spanning six to twelve months, to secure a new managed service contract. Even if we succeed in developing a relationship with a potential new customer, we may not be successful in entering into a managed service contract with that customer. In addition, we cannot accurately predict the timing of entering into managed service contracts with new customers due to the complex procurement decision processes of most healthcare providers, which often involves high-level or committee approvals. Consequently, we have only a limited ability to predict the timing of specific new customer relationships. Delayed or unsuccessful implementation of our technologies or services with our customers or implementation costs that exceed our expectations may harm our financial results. To implement our solutions, we utilize the customer’s existing management and staff and layer our proprietary technology applications on top of the customer’s existing patient accounting and clinical systems. Each customer’s situation is different, and unanticipated difficulties and delays may arise. If the implementation process is not executed successfully or is delayed, our relationship with the customer may be adversely affected and our results of operations could suffer. Implementation of our solutions also requires us to integrate our own employees into the customer’s operations. The customer’s circumstances may require us to devote a larger number of our employees than anticipated, which could increase our costs and harm our financial results. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate as a result of factors that may impact our incentive and base fees, some of which may be outside of our control. We recognize base fee revenue on a straight-line basis over the life of the managed service contract. Base fees for contracts which are received in advance of services delivered are classified as deferred revenue until services have been provided. Our managed service contracts generally allow for adjustments to the base fee. Adjustments typically occur at 90, 180 or 360 days after the contract commences, but can also occur at subsequent dates as a result of factors including changes to the scope of operations and internal and external audits. In addition, our fees from hospitals affiliated with Ascension Health are subject to adjustment in the event quarterly cash collections at these hospitals deteriorate materially after we take over revenue cycle management operations. While these adjustments have never been triggered, if they were, our future fees from hospitals affiliated with Ascension Health would be reduced. Further, estimates of the incentive payments we have earned from providing services to customers in prior periods could change because the laws, regulations, instructions, payor contracts and rule interpretations governing how our customers receive payments from payors are complex and change frequently. Any such change in estimates could be material. The timing of such adjustments is often dependent on factors outside of our control and may result in material increases or 32 Table of Contents decreases in our revenue and operating margin. Any such changes or adjustments may cause our quarter-to-quarter results of operations to fluctuate. In addition, the timing of customer additions is not uniform throughout the year, which causes fluctuations in our quarterly results as new customers are added. Operating margins are typically slightly lower in quarters in which we add new customers because we incur expenses to implement our operating model at those customers while our incentive payments from revenue improvements and operating cost reductions for those customers are only at a preliminary stage. We also experience fluctuations in incentive payments as a result of patients’ ability to accelerate or defer elective procedures, particularly around holidays such as Thanksgiving and Christmas. Generally, incentive payments are lower in the first quarter of each year and higher in the fourth quarter of each year. Incentive payments have a significant impact on operating margins and adjusted EBITDA, and changes in the amount of incentive payments can cause fluctuations in our quarter-to-quarter operating results. If we lose key personnel or if we are unable to attract, hire, integrate and retain key personnel and other necessary employees, our business would be harmed. Our future success depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, integrate and retain key personnel. Our future success also depends on the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key personnel, each of whom may be difficult to replace. In particular, Mary A. Tolan, our president and chief executive officer, is critical to the management of our business and operations and the development of our strategic direction. The loss of services of Ms. Tolan or any of our other executive officers or key personnel or the inability to continue to attract qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. The replacement of any of these key personnel would involve significant time and expense and may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. Competition for the caliber and number of employees we require is intense. We may face difficulty identifying and hiring qualified personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training each of our employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them. If we fail to retain our employees, we could incur significant expenses in hiring, integrating and training their replacements and the quality of our services and our ability to serve our customers could diminish, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business. The imposition of legal responsibility for obligations related to our employees or our customers’ employees could adversely affect our business or subject us to liability. Under our contracts with customers, we directly manage our customers’ employees engaged in the activities we have contracted to manage for our customers. Our managed service contracts establish the division of responsibilities between us and our customers for various personnel management matters, including compliance with and liability under various employment laws and regulations. We could, nevertheless, be found to have liability with our customers for actions against or by employees of our customers, including under various employment laws and regulations, such as those relating to discrimination, retaliation, wage and hour matters, occupational safety and health, family and medical leave, notice of facility closings and layoffs and labor relations, as well as similar liability with respect to our own employees, and any such liability could result in a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to manage future growth effectively, our business would be harmed. We have expanded our operations significantly since inception and anticipate expanding further. For example, our net services revenue increased from $160.7 million in 2006 to $606.3 million in 2010, and the number of our employees increased from 33, all of whom were full-time, as of January 1, 2005 to 1,991 full-time employees and 231 part-time employees as of December 31, 2010. In addition, the number of customer employees whom we manage has increased from approximately 1,600 as of January 1, 2005 to approximately 8,200 as of December 31, 2010. This growth has placed significant demands on our management, infrastructure and other resources. To manage future growth, we will need to hire, integrate and retain highly skilled and motivated employees, and will need to effectively manage a growing number of customer employees 33 Table of Contents engaged in revenue cycle operations. We will also need to continue to improve our financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. If we do not effectively manage our growth, we may not be able to execute on our business plan, respond to competitive pressures, take advantage of market opportunities, satisfy customer requirements or maintain high-quality service offerings. Disruptions in service or damage to our data centers and shared services centers could adversely affect our business. Our data centers and shared services centers are essential to our business. Our operations depend on our ability to operate our shared service centers, and to maintain and protect our applications, which are located in data centers that are operated for us by third parties. We cannot control or assure the continued or uninterrupted availability of these third-party data centers. In addition, our information technologies and systems, as well as our data centers and shared services centers, are vulnerable to damage or interruption from various causes, including (i) acts of God and other natural disasters, war and acts of terrorism and (ii) power losses, computer systems failures, Internet and telecommunications or data network failures, operator error, losses of and corruption of data and similar events. We conduct business continuity planning and maintain insurance against fires, floods, other natural disasters and general business interruptions to mitigate the adverse effects of a disruption, relocation or change in operating environment at one of our data centers or shared services centers, but the situations we plan for and the amount of insurance coverage we maintain may not be adequate in any particular case. In addition, the occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays or cessations in service to our customers, or in interruptions, delays or cessations in the direct connections we establish between our customers and third-party payors. Any of these events could impair or prohibit our ability to provide our services, reduce the attractiveness of our services to current or potential customers and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, despite the implementation of security measures, our infrastructure, data centers, shared services centers or systems that we interface with, including the Internet and related systems, may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, hackers, improper employee or contractor access, computer viruses, programming errors, denial-of-service attacks or other attacks by third parties seeking to disrupt operations or misappropriate information or similar physical or electronic breaches of security. Any of these can cause system failure, including network, software or hardware failure, which can result in service disruptions. As a result, we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches and hackers or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. If our security measures are breached or fail and unauthorized access is obtained to a customer’s data, our service may be perceived as not being secure, the attractiveness of our services to current or potential customers may be reduced, and we may incur significant liabilities. Our services involve the storage and transmission of customers’ proprietary information and protected health, financial, payment and other personal information of patients. We rely on proprietary and commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring, as well as other processes, to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of such information, and because of the sensitivity of this information, the effectiveness of such security efforts is very important. The systems currently used for transmission and approval of credit card transactions, and the technology utilized in credit cards themselves, all of which can put credit card data at risk, are determined and controlled by the payment card industry, not by us. If our security measures are breached or fail as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, someone may be able to obtain unauthorized access to customer or patient data. Improper activities by third parties, advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and discoveries and other events or developments may facilitate or result in a compromise or breach of our computer systems. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. Our security measures may not be effective in preventing these types of activities, and the security measures of our third-party data centers and service providers may not be adequate. If a breach of our security occurs, we could face damages for contract breach, 34 Table of Contents penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations, possible lawsuits by individuals affected by the breach and significant remediation costs and efforts to prevent future occurrences. In addition, whether there is an actual or a perceived breach of our security, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose current or potential customers. We may be liable to our customers or third parties if we make errors in providing our services, and our anticipated net services revenue may be lower if we provide poor service. The services we offer are complex, and we make errors from time to time. Errors can result from the interface of our proprietary technology applications and a customer’s existing patient accounting system, or we may make human errors in any aspect of our service offerings. The costs incurred in correcting any material errors may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results. Our customers, or third parties such as our customers’ patients, may assert claims against us alleging that they suffered damages due to our errors, and such claims could subject us to significant legal defense costs and adverse publicity regardless of the merits or eventual outcome of such claims. In addition, if we provide poor service to a customer and the customer therefore realizes less improvement in revenue yield, the incentive fee payments to us from that customer will be lower than anticipated. We offer our services in many jurisdictions and, therefore, may be subject to state and local taxes that could harm our business or that we may have inadvertently failed to pay. We may lose sales or incur significant costs should various tax jurisdictions be successful in imposing taxes on a broader range of services. Imposition of such taxes on our services could result in substantial unplanned costs, would effectively increase the cost of such services to our customers and may adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers or to gain new customers in the areas in which such taxes are imposed. For example, in 2008 Michigan began to impose a tax based on gross receipts in addition to tax based on net income. We may seek to expand into international markets in the future. We have no experience in providing services to customers outside of the United States. Expansion into international markets, if pursued, could expose us to additional risks that we do not face in the United States, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. To date, all customers for all of our service offerings have been located in the United States. We believe that increasing healthcare costs are a concern for other developed nations and that management of the health of a defined patient population is a cost effective means to control overall healthcare expenditures. We have received inquiries from government-related healthcare providers in other countries about our quality and total cost of care service offering. As a result, we are beginning to evaluate the level of potential interest in this service offering and the methods of delivering this solution to international customers. This process is in a very early stage and there is no assurance that our quality and total cost of care service offering can be successfully tailored to meet the specific requirements of healthcare providers outside the United States, that a market for this service will develop outside of the United States or that we will be able to serve this market efficiently. We have no experience in providing services to customers outside of the United States. If we seek to expand into international markets in the future, such operations will be subject to a variety of legal, financial, operational, regulatory, economic and political risks that we do not face in the United States. We may not be successful in developing and implementing policies and strategies that would be effective in managing these risks in each country where we may seek do business. Our failure to manage these risks successfully could harm our operations and increase our costs, and put pressure on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our growing operations in India expose us to risks that could have an adverse effect on our costs of operations. We employ a significant number of persons in India and expect to continue to add personnel in India. While there are cost advantages to operating in India, significant growth in the technology sector in India has 35 Table of Contents increased competition to attract and retain skilled employees and has led to a commensurate increase in compensation expense. In the future, we may not be able to hire and retain such personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure in India. In addition, our reliance on a workforce in India exposes us to disruptions in the business, political and economic environment in that region. Maintenance of a stable political environment is important to our operations, and terrorist attacks and acts of violence or war may directly affect our physical facilities and workforce or contribute to general instability. Our operations in India require us to comply with local laws and regulatory requirements, which are complex and of which we may not always be aware, and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk. Our Indian operations may also subject us to trade restrictions, reduced or inadequate protection for intellectual property rights, security breaches and other factors that may adversely affect our business. Negative developments in any of these areas could increase our costs of operations or otherwise harm our business. Negative public perception in the United States regarding offshore outsourcing and proposed legislation may increase the cost of delivering our services. Offshore outsourcing is a politically sensitive topic in the United States. For example, various organizations and public figures in the United States have expressed concern about a perceived association between offshore outsourcing providers and the loss of jobs in the United States. In addition, there has been recent publicity about the negative experience of certain companies that use offshore outsourcing, particularly in India. Current or prospective customers may elect to perform such services themselves or may be discouraged from transferring these services from onshore to offshore providers to avoid negative perceptions that may be associated with using an offshore provider. Any slowdown or reversal of existing industry trends towards offshore outsourcing would increase the cost of delivering our services if we had to relocate aspects of our services from India to the United States where operating costs are higher. Legislation in the United States may be enacted that is intended to discourage or restrict offshore outsourcing. In the United States, federal and state legislation has been proposed, and enacted in several states, that could restrict or discourage U.S. companies from outsourcing their services to companies outside the United States. For example, legislation has been proposed that would require offshore providers to identify where they are located. In addition, legislation has been enacted in at least one state that requires that state contracts for services be performed within the United States, while several other states provide a preference to state contracts that are performed within the state. It is possible that legislation could be adopted that would restrict U.S. private sector companies that have federal or state government contracts, or that receive government funding or reimbursement, such as Medicare or Medicaid payments, from outsourcing their services to offshore service providers. Any changes to existing laws or the enactment of new legislation restricting offshore outsourcing in the United States may adversely affect our ability to do business, particularly if these changes are widespread, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Regulatory Risks The healthcare industry is heavily regulated. Our failure to comply with regulatory requirements could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our business. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated and is subject to changing political, legislative, regulatory and other influences. Many healthcare laws are complex, and their application to specific services and relationships may not be clear. In particular, many existing healthcare laws and regulations, when enacted, did not anticipate the services that we provide. There can be no assurance that our operations will not be challenged or adversely affected by enforcement initiatives. Our failure to accurately anticipate the application of these laws and regulations to our business, or any other failure to comply with regulatory requirements, could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our business. Federal and state legislatures and agencies periodically consider proposals to revise aspects of the healthcare industry or to revise or create additional statutory and regulatory requirements. Such proposals, if implemented, could impact our operations, the use of our services and our ability to market new services, or could create unexpected liabilities for us. We are unable to predict what changes to laws or regulations might be made in the future or how those changes could affect our business or our operating costs. 36 Table of Contents Developments in the healthcare industry, including national healthcare reform, could adversely affect our business. The healthcare industry has changed significantly in recent years and we expect that significant changes will continue to occur. The timing and impact of developments in the healthcare industry are difficult to predict. We cannot be sure that the markets for our services will continue to exist at current levels or that we will have adequate technical, financial and marketing resources to react to changes in those markets. The federal healthcare reform legislation (known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010) that was enacted in March 2010 could, for example, encourage more companies to enter our market, provide advantages to our competitors and result in the development of solutions that compete with ours. Moreover, healthcare reform remains a major policy issue at the federal level, and constitutional challenges to or the repeal of the existing legislation and additional healthcare legislation in the future could have adverse consequences for us or the customers we serve. If a breach of our measures protecting personal data covered by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act or Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act occurs, we may incur significant liabilities. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended, and the regulations that have been issued under it, which we refer to collectively as HIPAA, contain substantial restrictions and requirements with respect to the use and disclosure of individuals’ protected health information. Under HIPAA, covered entities must establish administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of electronic protected health information maintained or transmitted by them or by others on their behalf. In February 2009 HIPAA was amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health, or HITECH, Act to impose certain of the HIPAA privacy and security requirements directly upon business associates of covered entities. New regulations that took effect in late 2009 also require business associates to notify covered entities, who in turn must notify affected individuals and government authorities of data security breaches involving unsecured protected health information. Most of our customers are covered entities and we are a business associate to many of those customers under HIPAA and the HITECH Act as a result of our contractual obligations to perform certain functions on behalf of and provide certain services to those customers. We have implemented and maintain physical, technical and administrative safeguards intended to protect all personal data and have processes in place to assist us in complying with applicable laws and regulations regarding the protection of this data and properly responding to any security incidents. A knowing breach of the HITECH Act’s requirements could expose us to criminal liability. A breach of our safeguards and processes that is not due to reasonable cause or involves willful neglect could expose us to civil penalties and the possibility of civil litigation. If we fail to comply with federal and state laws governing submission of false or fraudulent claims to government healthcare programs and financial relationships among healthcare providers, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties or loss of eligibility to participate in government healthcare programs. A number of federal and state laws, including anti-kickback restrictions and laws prohibiting the submission of false or fraudulent claims, apply to healthcare providers, physicians and others that make, offer, seek or receive referrals or payments for products or services that may be paid for through any federal or state healthcare program and, in some instances, any private program. These laws are complex and their application to our specific services and relationships may not be clear and may be applied to our business in ways that we do not anticipate. Federal and state regulatory and law enforcement authorities have recently increased enforcement activities with respect to Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse regulations and other healthcare reimbursement laws and rules. From time to time, participants in the healthcare industry receive inquiries or subpoenas to produce documents in connection with government investigations. We could be required to expend significant time and resources to comply with these requests, and the attention of our management team could be diverted by these efforts. Furthermore, if we are found to be in violation of any federal or state fraud and abuse laws, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, and we could be excluded from participating in federal and state healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. The occurrence of any 37 Table of Contents of these events could give our customers the right to terminate our managed service contracts with them and result in significant harm to our business and financial condition. The federal healthcare anti-kickback law prohibits any person or entity from offering, paying, soliciting or receiving anything of value, directly or indirectly, for the referral of patients covered by Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs or the leasing, purchasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending the lease, purchase or order of any item, good, facility or service covered by these programs. Many states have adopted similar prohibitions against kickbacks and other practices that are intended to induce referrals, and some of these state laws are applicable to all patients regardless of whether the patient is covered under a governmental health program or private health plan. We seek to structure our business relationships and activities to avoid any activity that could be construed to implicate the federal healthcare anti-kickback law and similar laws. We cannot assure you, however, that our arrangements and activities will be deemed outside the scope of these laws or that increased enforcement activities will not directly or indirectly have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any determination by a federal or state agency or court that we have violated any of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, could require us to change or terminate some portions of our operations or business, could disqualify us from providing services to healthcare providers doing business with government programs, could give our customers the right to terminate our managed service contracts with them and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Moreover, any violations by and resulting penalties or exclusions imposed upon our customers could adversely affect their financial condition and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. There are also numerous federal and state laws that forbid submission of false information or the failure to disclose information in connection with the submission and payment of healthcare provider claims for reimbursement. In particular, the federal False Claims Act, or the FCA, prohibits a person from knowingly presenting or causing to be presented a false or fraudulent claim for payment or approval by an officer, employee or agent of the United States. In addition, the FCA prohibits a person from knowingly making, using, or causing to be made or used a false record or statement material to such a claim. Violations of the FCA may result in treble damages, significant monetary penalties, and other collateral consequences including, potentially, exclusion from participation in federally funded healthcare programs. The scope and implications of the recent amendments to the FCA pursuant to the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009, or FERA, have yet to be fully determined or adjudicated and as a result it is difficult to predict how future enforcement initiatives may impact our business. Pursuant to the healthcare reform legislation enacted in March 2010, a claim that includes items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback law constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the FCA. These laws and regulations may change rapidly, and it is frequently unclear how they apply to our business. Errors created by our proprietary applications or services that relate to entry, formatting, preparation or transmission of claim or cost report information may be determined or alleged to be in violation of these laws and regulations. Any failure of our proprietary applications or services to comply with these laws and regulations could result in substantial civil or criminal liability and could, among other things, adversely affect demand for our services, invalidate all or portions of some of our managed service contracts with our customers, require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, require us to refund portions of our base fee revenues and incentive payment revenues, cause us to be disqualified from serving customers doing business with government payers, and give our customers the right to terminate our managed service contracts with them, any one of which could have an adverse effect on our business. Our failure to comply with debt collection and consumer credit reporting regulations could subject us to fines and other liabilities, which could harm our reputation and business. The U.S. Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, or FDCPA, regulates persons who regularly collect or attempt to collect, directly or indirectly, consumer debts owed or asserted to be owed to another person. Certain of our accounts receivable activities may be subject to the FDCPA. Many states impose additional requirements on debt collection communications, and some of those requirements may be more stringent than the comparable federal requirements. Moreover, regulations governing debt collection are subject to changing 38 Table of Contents interpretations that may be inconsistent among different jurisdictions. We are also subject to the Fair Credit Reporting Act, or FCRA, which regulates consumer credit reporting and which may impose liability on us to the extent that the adverse credit information reported on a consumer to a credit bureau is false or inaccurate. We could incur costs or could be subject to fines or other penalties under the FCRA if the Federal Trade Commission determines that we have mishandled protected information. We or our customers could be required to report such breaches to affected consumers or regulatory authorities, leading to disclosures that could damage our reputation or harm our business, financial position and operating results. Potential additional regulation of the disclosure of health information outside the United States may increase our costs. Federal or state governmental authorities may impose additional data security standards or additional privacy or other restrictions on the collection, use, transmission and other disclosures of health information. Legislation has been proposed at various times at both the federal and the state levels that would limit, forbid or regulate the use or transmission of medical information pertaining to U.S. patients outside of the United States. Such legislation, if adopted, may render our operations in India impracticable or substantially more expensive. Moving such operations to the United States may involve substantial delay in implementation and increased costs. Risks Related to Intellectual Property We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to establish, protect and enforce our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. If we fail to establish or protect our intellectual property rights, we may lose an important advantage in the market in which we compete. We rely upon a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret law and contractual terms and conditions to protect our intellectual property rights, all of which provide only limited protection. We cannot assure you that our intellectual property rights are sufficient to protect our competitive advantages. Although we have filed six U.S. patent applications, we cannot assure you that any patents that will be issued from these applications will provide us with the protection that we seek or that any future patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We have also been issued one U.S. patent, but we cannot assure you that it will provide us with the protection that we seek or that it will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of patents are uncertain. Any patents that may be issued in the future from pending or future patent applications or our one issued patent may not provide sufficiently broad protection or they may not prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. Also, we cannot assure you that any trademark registrations will be issued for pending or future applications or that any of our trademarks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights. We also rely in some circumstances on trade secrets to protect our technology. Trade secrets may lose their value if not properly protected. We endeavor to enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, customers, contractors and business partners to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. The steps we have taken, however, may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology, and adequate remedies may not be available in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and proprietary technology. Moreover, others may reverse engineer or independently develop technologies that are competitive to ours or infringe our intellectual property. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our intellectual property and using our technology for their competitive advantage. Any such infringement or misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Monitoring infringement of our intellectual property rights can be difficult and costly, and enforcement of our intellectual property rights may require us to bring legal actions against infringers. Infringement actions are inherently uncertain and therefore may not be successful, even when our rights have been infringed, and even if successful may require a substantial amount of resources and divert our management’s attention. 39 Table of Contents Claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property could force us to incur significant costs or revise the way we conduct our business. Our competitors protect their intellectual property rights by means such as patents, trade secrets, copyrights and trademarks. We have not conducted an independent review of patents issued to third parties. Additionally, because patent applications in the United States and many other jurisdictions are kept confidential for 18 months before they are published, we may be unaware of pending patent applications that relate to our proprietary technology. Although we have not been involved in any litigation related to intellectual property rights of others, from time to time we receive letters from other parties alleging, or inquiring about, possible breaches of their intellectual property rights. Any party asserting that we infringe its proprietary rights would force us to defend ourselves, and possibly our customers, against the alleged infringement. These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights or interruption or cessation of our operations. The software and technology industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Moreover, the risk of such a lawsuit will likely increase as our size and scope of our services and technology platforms increase, as our geographic presence and market share expand and as the number of competitors in our market increases. Any such claims or litigation could: • be time-consuming and expensive to defend, whether meritorious or not; • require us to stop providing the services that use the technology that infringes the other party’s intellectual property; • divert the attention of our technical and managerial resources; • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with third parties, which may not be available on terms that we deem acceptable, if at all; • prevent us from operating all or a portion of our business or force us to redesign our services and technology platforms, which could be difficult and expensive and may make the performance or value of our service offerings less attractive; • subject us to significant liability for damages or result in significant settlement payments; or • require us to indemnify our customers as we are required by contract to indemnify some of our customers for certain claims based upon the infringement or alleged infringement of any third party’s intellectual property rights resulting from our customers’ use of our intellectual property. Intellectual property litigation can be costly. Even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation could deplete our financial resources. Litigation is also time-consuming and could divert management’s attention and resources away from our business. Furthermore, during the course of litigation, confidential information may be disclosed in the form of documents or testimony in connection with discovery requests, depositions or trial testimony. Disclosure of our confidential information and our involvement in intellectual property litigation could materially adversely affect our business. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could significantly limit our ability to continue our operations and could harm our relationships with current and prospective customers. Any of the foregoing could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to the Ownership of Shares of Our Common Stock Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business 40 Table of Contents combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; • provide for a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following their election; • require that directors only be removed from office for cause and only upon a supermajority stockholder vote; • provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and • require supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws. For additional information regarding these and other anti-takeover provisions, see “Description of Capital Stock — Anti-Takeover Effects of Our Charter and Bylaws and Delaware Law”. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future. Although we paid cash dividends on our capital stock in July 2008 and September 2009, we do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any future dividend payments will be within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, capital expenditure requirements, contractual restrictions, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, our revolving credit facility does not permit us to pay dividends without the lender’s prior consent. We may not generate sufficient cash from operations in the future to pay dividends on our common stock. See “Dividend Policy”. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 