Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company faces risks other than those listed here, including those that are unknown to the Company and others of which the Company may be aware but, at present, considers immaterial. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting the Company’s operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 1. Conditions in the real estate market generally impact the demand for a substantial portion of the Company’s products and services Demand for a substantial portion of the Company’s products and services generally decreases as the number of real estate transactions in which its products and services are purchased decreases. The number of real estate transactions in which the Company’s products and services are purchased decreases in the following situations: • when mortgage interest rates are high or rising; • when the availability of credit, including commercial and residential mortgage funding, is limited; and • when real estate values are declining. 2. Unfavorable economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on the Company Uncertainty and negative trends in general economic conditions in the United States and abroad, including significant tightening of credit markets and a general decline in the value of real property, historically have created a difficult operating environment for the Company’s businesses and other companies in its industries. In addition, the Company holds investments in entities, such as title agencies, settlement service providers and property and casualty insurance companies, and instruments, such as mortgage-backed securities, which may be negatively impacted by these conditions. The Company also owns a federal savings bank and an industrial bank into which it deposits some of its own funds and some funds held in trust for third parties. These banks invest those funds and any realized losses incurred will be reflected in the Company’s consolidated results. The likelihood of such losses, which generally would not occur if the Company were to deposit these funds in an unaffiliated entity, increases when economic conditions are unfavorable. Depending upon the ultimate severity and duration of any economic downturn, the resulting effects on the Company could be materially adverse, including a significant reduction in revenues, earnings and cash flows, challenges to the Company’s ability to satisfy covenants or otherwise meet its obligations under debt facilities, difficulties in obtaining access to capital, challenges to the Company’s ability to pay dividends at currently anticipated levels, deterioration in the value of its investments and increased credit risk from customers and others with obligations to the Company. 3. Unfavorable economic or other conditions could cause the Company to write off a portion of its goodwill and other intangible assets The Company performs an impairment test of the carrying value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets annually in the fourth quarter or sooner if circumstances indicate a possible impairment. Finite-lived intangible assets are subject to impairment tests on a periodic basis. Factors that may be considered in connection with this review include, without limitation, underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, reductions in the Company’s stock price and market capitalization, increased cost of capital and negative macroeconomic, industry and company-specific trends. These and other factors could lead to a conclusion that goodwill or other intangible assets are no longer fully recoverable, in which case the Company would be required to write off the portion believed to be unrecoverable. Total goodwill and other intangible assets reflected on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2010 is approximately $0.9 billion. Any substantial goodwill and other intangible asset impairments that may be required could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 14 Table of Contents 4. A downgrade by ratings agencies, reductions in statutory surplus maintained by the Company’s title insurance underwriters or a deterioration in other measures of financial strength may negatively affect the Company’s results of operations and competitive position Certain of the Company’s customers use measurements of the financial strength of the Company’s title insurance underwriters, including, among others, ratings provided by ratings agencies and levels of statutory surplus maintained by those underwriters, in determining the amount of a policy they will accept and the amount of reinsurance required. Each of the major ratings agencies currently rates the Company’s title insurance operations. The Company’s principal title insurance underwriter’s financial strength ratings are “A3” by Moody’s, “A-” by Fitch, “BBB+” by Standard & Poor’s and “A-” by A.M. Best. These ratings provide the agencies’ perspectives on the financial strength, operating performance and cash generating ability of those operations. These agencies continually review these ratings and the ratings are subject to change. Statutory surplus, or the amount by which statutory assets exceed statutory liabilities, is also a measure of financial strength. The Company’s principal title insurance underwriter maintained approximately $854.6 million of statutory surplus capital as of December 31, 2010. The current minimum statutory surplus capital required to be maintained by California law is $500,000. Accordingly, if the ratings or statutory surplus of these title insurance underwriters are reduced from their current levels, or if there is a deterioration in other measures of financial strength, the Company’s results of operations, competitive position and liquidity could be adversely affected. 5. Failures at financial institutions at which the Company deposits funds could adversely affect the Company The Company deposits substantial funds in financial institutions. These funds include amounts owned by third parties, such as escrow deposits. Should one or more of the financial institutions at which deposits are maintained fail, there is no guarantee that the Company would recover the funds deposited, whether through Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation coverage or otherwise. In the event of any such failure, the Company also could be held liable for the funds owned by third parties. 6. Changes in government regulation could prohibit or limit the Company’s operations or make it more burdensome to conduct such operations Many of the Company’s businesses, including its title insurance, property and casualty insurance, home warranty, banking, trust and investment businesses, are regulated by various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies. These and other of the Company’s businesses also operate within statutory guidelines. Changes in the applicable regulatory environment, statutory guidelines or interpretations of existing regulations or statutes, enhanced governmental oversight or efforts by governmental agencies to cause customers to refrain from using the Company’s products or services could prohibit or limit its future operations or make it more burdensome to conduct such operations. The impact of these changes would be more significant if they involve jurisdictions in which the Company generates a greater portion of its title premiums, such as the states of Arizona, California, Florida, New York, Pennsylvania and Texas and the province of Ontario, Canada. These changes may compel the Company to reduce its prices, may restrict its ability to implement price increases or acquire assets or businesses, may limit the manner in which the Company conducts its business or otherwise may have a negative impact on its ability to generate revenues, earnings and cash flows. 7. Scrutiny of the Company’s businesses and the industries in which it operates by governmental entities and others could adversely affect its operations and financial condition The real estate settlement services industry, an industry in which the Company generates a substantial portion of its revenue and earnings, has become subject to heightened scrutiny by regulators, legislators, the media and plaintiffs’ attorneys. Though often directed at the industry generally, these groups may also focus their attention directly on the Company’s businesses. In either case, this scrutiny may result in changes which could adversely affect the Company’s operations and, therefore, its financial condition and liquidity. 15 Table of Contents Governmental entities have routinely inquired into certain practices in the real estate settlement services industry to determine whether certain of the Company’s businesses or its competitors have violated applicable laws, which include, among others, the insurance codes of the various jurisdictions and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and similar state and federal laws. Departments of insurance in the various states, either separately or in conjunction with federal regulators and applicable regulators in international jurisdictions, also periodically conduct targeted inquiries into the practices of title insurance companies in their respective jurisdictions. Further, from time to time plaintiffs’ lawyers may target the Company and other members of the Company’s industry with lawsuits claiming legal violations or other wrongful conduct. These lawsuits may involve large groups of plaintiffs and claims for substantial damages. Any of these types of inquiries or proceedings may result in a finding of a violation of the law or other wrongful conduct and may result in the payment of fines or damages or the imposition of restrictions on the Company’s conduct which could impact its operations and financial condition. Moreover, these laws and standards of conduct often are ambiguous and, thus, it may be difficult to ensure compliance. This ambiguity may force the Company to mitigate its risk by settling claims or by ending practices that generate revenues, earnings and cash flows. 8. Reform of government-sponsored enterprises could negatively impact the Company Historically a substantial proportion of home loans originated in the United States were sold to and, generally, resold in a securitized form by, the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac). As a condition to the purchase of a home loan Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac generally required the purchase of title insurance for their benefit and, as applicable, the benefit of the holders of home loans they may have securitized. The federal government currently is considering various alternatives to reform Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The role, if any, that these enterprises or other enterprises fulfilling a similar function will play in the mortgage process following the adoption of any reforms is not currently known. The timing of the adoption and, thereafter, the implementation of the reforms is similarly unknown. Due to the significance of the role of these enterprises, the mortgage process itself may substantially change as a result of these reforms and related discussions. It is possible that these entities, as reformed, or the successors to these entities may require changes to the way title insurance is priced or delivered, changes to standard policy terms or other changes which may make the title insurance business less profitable. These reforms may also alter the home loan market, such as by causing higher mortgage interest rates due to decreased governmental support of mortgage-backed securities. These consequences could be materially adverse to the Company and its financial condition. 9. The Company may find it difficult to acquire necessary data Certain data used and supplied by the Company are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory authorities. Compliance with existing federal, state and local laws and regulations with respect to such data has not had a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity to date. Nonetheless, federal, state and local laws and regulations in the United States designed to protect the public from the misuse of personal information in the marketplace and adverse publicity or potential litigation concerning the commercial use of such information may affect the Company’s operations and could result in substantial regulatory compliance expense, litigation expense and a loss of revenue. The suppliers of data to the Company face similar burdens and, consequently, the Company may find it financially burdensome to acquire necessary data. 10. Regulation of title insurance rates could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations Title insurance rates are subject to extensive regulation, which varies from state to state. In many states the approval of the applicable state insurance regulator is required prior to implementing a rate change. This regulation could hinder the Company’s ability to promptly adapt to changing market dynamics through price adjustments, which could adversely affect its results of operations, particularly in a rapidly declining market. 16 Table of Contents 11. As a holding company, the Company depends on distributions from its subsidiaries, and if distributions from its subsidiaries are materially impaired, the Company’s ability to declare and pay dividends may be adversely affected; in addition, insurance and other regulations limit the amount of dividends, loans and advances available from the Company’s insurance subsidiaries The Company is a holding company whose primary assets are investments in its operating subsidiaries. The Company’s ability to pay dividends is dependent on the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends or repay funds. If the Company’s operating subsidiaries are not able to pay dividends or repay funds, the Company may not be able to fulfill parent company obligations and/or declare and pay dividends to its stockholders. Moreover, pursuant to insurance and other regulations under which the Company’s insurance subsidiaries operate, the amount of dividends, loans and advances available is limited. Under such regulations, the maximum amount of dividends, loans and advances available in 2011 from these insurance subsidiaries is $194.3 million. 12. The Company’s pension plan is currently underfunded and pension expenses and funding obligations could increase significantly as a result of weak performance of financial markets and its effect on plan assets The Company is responsible for the obligations of its defined benefit pension plan, which it assumed from its former parent, The First American Corporation, on June 1, 2010 in connection with the spin-off transaction which was consummated on that date. The plan was closed to new entrants effective December 31, 2001 and amended to “freeze” all benefit accruals as of April 30, 2008. The Company’s future funding obligations for this plan depend, among other factors, upon the future performance of assets held in trust for the plan. The pension plan was underfunded as of December 31, 2010 by approximately $108.4 million and the Company may need to make significant contributions to the plan. In addition, pension expenses and funding requirements may also be greater than currently anticipated if the market values of the assets held by the pension plan decline or if the other assumptions regarding plan earnings and expenses require adjustment. On June 1, 2010, CoreLogic, Inc. issued a $19.9 million promissory note to the Company which approximated the unfunded portion of the liability attributable to the plan participants that were employed in the information solutions group of The First American Corporation. There is no guarantee that CoreLogic, Inc. will fulfill its obligation under the note or that the amount of the note will be sufficient to ultimately cover the unfunded portion of the liability attributable to these employees. The Company’s obligations under this plan could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 13. Weakness in the commercial real estate market or an increase in the amount or severity of claims in connection with commercial real estate transactions could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations The Company issues title insurance policies in connection with commercial real estate transactions. Premiums paid and limits on these policies are large relative to policies issued on residential transactions. Because a claim under a single policy could be significant, title insurers often seek reinsurance or coinsurance from other insurance companies, both within and outside the industry. The Company both receives and provides such coverage. Additionally, the pretax margin derived from these policies generally is higher than on other policies. Disruptions in the commercial real estate market, including limitations on available credit and defaults on loans secured by commercial real estate, may result in a decrease in the number of commercial policies issued by the Company and/or an increase in the number of claims it incurs on commercial policies. As a reference, commercial premiums earned by the Company in 2009 decreased nearly 50 percent compared with the amount earned in 2006. A further decrease in the number of commercial policies issued by the Company or an increase in the amount or severity of claims it incurs on commercial policies could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. 17 Table of Contents 14. Actual claims experience could materially vary from the expected claims experience reflected in the Company’s reserve for incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) title claims Title insurance policies are long-duration contracts with the majority of the claims reported within the first few years following the issuance of the policy. Generally, 70 to 80 percent of claim amounts become known in the first five years of the policy life, and the majority of IBNR reserves relate to the five most recent policy years. A material change in expected ultimate losses and corresponding loss rates for policy years older than five years, while possible, is not considered reasonably likely. However, changes in expected ultimate losses and corresponding loss rates for recent policy years are considered likely and could result in a material adjustment to the IBNR reserves. Based on historical experience, management believes a 50 basis point change to the loss rates for the most recent policy years, positive or negative, is believed to be reasonably likely given the long duration nature of a title insurance policy. For example, if the expected ultimate losses for each of the last five policy years increased or decreased by 50 basis points, the resulting impact on the Company’s IBNR reserve would be an increase or decrease, as the case may be, of $105.1 million. The estimates made by management in determining the appropriate level of IBNR reserves could ultimately prove to be inaccurate and actual claims experience may vary from the expected claims experience. 15. Systems interruptions and intrusions may impair the delivery of the Company’s products and services System interruptions and intrusions may impair the delivery of the Company’s products and services, resulting in a loss of customers and a corresponding loss in revenue. The Company’s businesses depend heavily upon computer systems located in its data centers. Certain events beyond the Company’s control, including natural disasters, telecommunications failures and intrusions into the Company’s systems by third parties could temporarily or permanently interrupt the delivery of products and services. These interruptions also may interfere with suppliers’ ability to provide necessary data and employees’ ability to attend work and perform their responsibilities. 16. The Company may not be able to realize the benefits of its offshore strategy The Company utilizes lower cost labor in foreign countries, such as India and the Philippines, among others. These countries are subject to relatively high degrees of political and social instability and may lack the infrastructure to withstand natural disasters. Such disruptions could decrease efficiency and increase the Company’s costs in these countries. Weakness of the United States dollar in relation to the currencies used in these foreign countries may also reduce the savings achievable through this strategy. Furthermore, the practice of utilizing labor based in foreign countries has come under increased scrutiny in the United States and, as a result, some of the Company’s customers may require it to use labor based in the United States. Laws or regulations that require the Company to use labor based in the United States or effectively increase the cost of the Company’s foreign labor also could be enacted. The Company may not be able to pass on these increased costs to its customers. 17. Product migration may result in decreased revenue Customers of many real estate settlement services the Company provides increasingly require these services to be delivered faster, cheaper and more efficiently. Many of the traditional products it provides are labor and time intensive. As these customer pressures increase, the Company may be forced to replace traditional products with automated products that can be delivered electronically and with limited human processing. Because many of these traditional products have higher prices than corresponding automated products, the Company’s revenues may decline. 18 Table of Contents 18. Increases in the size of the Company’s customers enhance their negotiating position vis-à-vis the Company and may decrease their need for the services offered by the Company Many of the Company’s customers are increasing in size as a result of consolidation or the failure of their competitors. For example, the Company believes that three lenders collectively originate more than 50 percent of mortgage loans in the United States. As a result, the Company may derive a higher percentage of its revenues from a smaller base of customers, which would enhance the negotiating power of these customers with respect to the pricing and the terms on which these customers purchase the Company’s products and other matters. Moreover, these larger customers may prove more capable of performing in-house some or all of the services the Company provides or, with respect to the Company’s title insurance products, more willing to assume the risk of title defects themselves and, consequently, the demand for the Company’s products and services may decrease. These circumstances could adversely affect the Company’s revenues and profitability. Changes in the Company’s relationship with any of these customers, the loss of all or a portion of the business the Company derives from these customers or any refusal of these customers to accept the Company’s policies could have a material adverse effect on the Company. 19. Certain provisions of the Company’s bylaws and certificate of incorporation may reduce the likelihood of any unsolicited acquisition proposal or potential change of control that the Company’s stockholders might consider favorable The Company’s bylaws and certificate of incorporation contain provisions that could be considered “anti-takeover” provisions because they make it harder for a third-party to acquire the Company without the consent of the Company’s incumbent board of directors. Under these provisions: • election of the Company’s board of directors is staggered such that only one-third of the directors are elected by the stockholders each year and the directors serve three year terms prior to reelection; • stockholders may not remove directors without cause, change the size of the board of directors or, except as may be provided for in the terms of preferred stock the Company issues in the future, fill vacancies on the board of directors; • stockholders may act only at stockholder meetings and not by written consent; • stockholders must comply with advance notice provisions for nominating directors or presenting other proposals at stockholder meetings; and • the Company’s board of directors may without stockholder approval issue preferred shares and determine their rights and terms, including voting rights, or adopt a stockholder rights plan. While the Company believes that they are appropriate, these provisions, which may only be amended by the affirmative vote of the holders of approximately 67 percent of the Company’s issued voting shares, could have the effect of discouraging an unsolicited acquisition proposal or delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be considered favorably by the Company’s stockholders. 20. The Company’s investment portfolio is subject to certain risks and could experience losses The Company maintains a substantial investment portfolio, primarily consisting of fixed income securities (including mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities) and, as of December 31, 2010, $239.5 million in common stock of CoreLogic that was issued to the Company in connection with its spin-off separation from CoreLogic. The investment portfolio also includes money-market and other short-term investments, as well as some preferred and other common stock. Securities in the Company’s investment portfolio are subject to certain economic and financial market risks, such as credit risk, interest rate (including call, prepayment and extension) risk and/or liquidity risk. Because a substantial proportion of the portfolio consists of the common stock of a single issuer, CoreLogic, the risk of loss in the portfolio also is impacted by factors that influence the value of 19 Table of Contents CoreLogic’s stock, including, but not limited to, CoreLogic’s financial results and the market’s perception of CoreLogic’s and its industry’s prospects. Additionally, the risk of loss associated with the portfolio is increased during periods, such as the present period, of instability in credit markets and economic conditions. If the carrying value of the investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, the Company will be required to write down the value of the investments, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, statutory surplus and financial condition. 21. The Company could have conflicts with CoreLogic The Company and CoreLogic were part of a single publicly traded company, The First American Corporation, until the Company’s spin-off separation from CoreLogic on June 1, 2010. Conflicts with CoreLogic may arise as a result of the Company’s agreements with CoreLogic. Competition between the companies also could result in conflicts. While current competition between the companies is not material, the extent of future competition could increase. In addition, Parker S. Kennedy serves as the executive chairman of both the Company and CoreLogic and therefore has obligations to both companies. As such, conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually affecting both companies may arise. Conflicts, competition or conflicts of interest pertaining to the Company’s relationship with CoreLogic could adversely affect the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 