ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment in our Company. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected. In such an event, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Excess capacity currently exists throughout the solar supply chain that has led to substantial solar module pricing declines that has caused cost to become the predominant factor in the encapsulant procurement process. Excess capacity currently exists throughout the solar supply chain that has resulted in decreased selling prices of solar modules. Due to many module manufacturers producing at low utilization rates as well as being impacted by pricing pressure, our encapsulants' value proposition is reduced in some cases in the current excess capacity environment. As such, our customers and potential customers are increasingly focused on the purchase cost of encapsulants in the short-term. Our priority is to ensure we maintain our share with existing customers and gain share with new customers until the module inventories are depleted and module manufacturers begin to replenish encapsulant orders at a growing rate. In order to remain competitive, we will be subject to pricing pressures that will negatively impact our net sales and net earnings. In addition, our competitors may reduce the price of their products which may force us to further reduce the price of our encapsulants to retain market share. Our business's growth is dependent upon the growth of our key customers and our ability to increase our market share, particularly in China. The future growth and success in our business depends on the ability of our customers to grow their businesses and our ability to meet any such growth, principally through the addition of manufacturing capacity. If our customers do not increase production of solar modules, there will be no corresponding increase in encapsulant orders. It is possible that our customers may reduce their purchases from us. If our customers do not grow their businesses or they find alternative sources for encapsulants to meet their demands, it could limit our ability to grow our business and increase our net sales. In addition, new entrants into the solar module manufacturing industry, primarily from China, could negatively impact the demand for, and pricing of, our customers' products, which could reduce the demand for our encapsulants. Over the last couple of years, we believe our European customers have lost market share to low-cost module manufacturers, primarily from China, which continue to penetrate the global solar market. We have been actively attempting to sell our encapsulants to certain large Chinese module manufacturers. However, we did not generate any sales to these companies during 2011, as we continue to work with these module manufacturers on their production requirements. Although we intend to obtain market share with these companies in 2012, failure to do so could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. 15 Restrictive covenants in our revolving senior credit facility may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. Our revolving senior credit facility (the "Credit Agreement") contains certain restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to pursue our business strategies or undertake actions that may be in our best interests. Our Credit Agreement includes covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to: •draw down on the facility if EBITDA related ratios, as defined in the Credit Agreement, are not met. For example, we expect to be able to draw down on at least $50.0 million of the $150.0 million Credit Agreement during 2012. If our actual EBITDA is less than forecasted, we may not be able to borrow as much, or any amounts under the Credit Agreement; •incur or guarantee certain additional debt; •incur liens; •make certain loans and investments and complete certain acquisitions; •under certain circumstances, declare or pay dividends, redeem or repurchase common stock, or make certain other restricted payments; •complete certain mergers, consolidations and dissolutions; •sell certain assets outside of the ordinary course of business and engage in sale-leaseback transactions; •enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and •alter the nature of our business. If demand for solar energy in general and solar modules in particular does not continue to develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, sales in our business may stagnate or decline, which would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our encapsulants are used in the production of solar modules. As such, our financial condition and results of operations and future growth are tied to a significant extent to the overall demand for solar energy and solar modules. The solar energy market is at a relatively early stage of development and the extent to which solar modules will be widely adopted is uncertain. Many factors may affect the viability and widespread adoption of solar energy technology and demand for solar modules, and in turn, our encapsulants, including: •cost-effectiveness of solar modules compared to conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources and products; •performance and reliability of solar modules compared to conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources and products; •availability and amount of government subsidies and incentives to support the development and deployment of solar energy technology; •rate of adoption of solar energy and other renewable energy generation technologies, such as wind, geothermal and biomass; •seasonal fluctuations related to economic incentives and weather patterns; •impact of fiscal issues experienced by governments, primarily in Europe; •fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of fossil fuels and corn or other biomass materials; 16 •changes in global economic conditions including increases in interest rates and the availability of financing and investment capital that is required to fund solar projects. Any volatility or disruption in the economic environment or the credit markets similar to what was experienced during 2009 or what is currently being experienced in Europe may slow the growth of the solar industry, may cause our customers to experience a reduction in demand for their products and related financial difficulties and may adversely impact our business; •fluctuations in capital expenditures by end users of solar modules, which tend to decrease when the overall economy slows down; •the extent to which the electric power and broader energy industries are deregulated to permit broader adoption of solar electricity generation; •the cost and availability of polysilicon and other key raw materials for the production of solar modules; •construction of transmission facilities in certain areas to transport new solar energy loads; •saturation in markets such as Germany and Italy, which may have been the primary drivers of demand for solar modules; and •rate of adoption of solar energy in markets such as the United States and China. For example, we experienced a decline in our business during 2011 due to overcapacity in the solar supply chain that created excess module inventory due to weaker than expected demand driven by the European financial crisis, global economic uncertainty, falling module prices that did not stabilize and further potential solar subsidy cuts. In 2009, we also experienced a decline in our business mainly due to decreased global demand for solar energy as a result of legislative changes, such as the cap in feed-in-tariffs in Spain implemented in 2008, the global recession and the worldwide credit crisis. If demand for solar energy and solar modules fails to develop sufficiently, demand for our customers' products as well as demand for our encapsulants will decrease, and we may not be able to grow our business or net sales and our financial condition and results of operations will be negatively impacted. The global credit markets and overall worldwide economic conditions may have significant effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Significant reductions in available capital and liquidity, substantial reductions and/or fluctuations in equity and currency values and a worldwide recession may materially adversely affect our business. Factors such as lack of consumer spending, business investment and government spending, the volatility and weakness of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn such as the one experienced in 2009, which was characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our products may be adversely affected. Continued market disruptions and broader economic downturns including the recent European debt crisis may affect our and our customers' access to capital, lead to lower demand for our products, increase our exposure to losses from bad debts or result in our customers ceasing operations, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, the credit markets have experienced unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption. In many cases, the markets still have limited credit capacity for certain issuers, and lenders have requested more restrictive terms. The market for new debt financing is extremely limited and in some cases not available at all. If credit markets become disrupted or volatile, we may not be able to draw upon our Credit Agreement or incur additional debt, which may require us to seek other funding 17 sources to meet our liquidity needs or to fund planned expansion. As such, we may not be able to obtain debt or other financing on reasonable terms, or at all. Furthermore, the tightening of credit in financial markets may delay or prevent our customers from securing funding adequate to operate their businesses and purchase our products and could lead to an increase in our bad debt levels. A significant reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives or a change in government policies that promote the use of solar energy could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Demand for our encapsulants depends on the continued adoption of solar energy and the resultant demand for solar modules. Demand for our products depends, in large part, on government incentives aimed to promote greater use of solar energy. In many countries in which solar modules are sold, solar energy would not be commercially viable without government incentives. This is because the cost of generating electricity from solar energy currently exceeds the costs of generating electricity from conventional energy sources. The scope of government incentives for solar energy depends, to a large extent, on political and policy developments relating to environmental and energy concerns in a given country that are subject to change, which could lead to a significant reduction in, or a discontinuation of, the support for renewable energy in such country. Federal, state and local governmental bodies in many of the target markets for our customers' businesses, including Germany, Italy, Spain, the United States, China, France, Japan and South Korea, have provided subsidies and economic incentives in the form of feed-in-tariffs, rebates, tax credits and other incentives to end users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar energy products to promote the use of solar energy and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. In many cases, the costs of these government subsidy programs are passed on to electricity consumers in the applicable regions. These government economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated earlier than anticipated. For example, in Germany, which is currently the largest solar PV end-user market, the government enacted legislation that reduced feed-in-tariffs beginning June 30, 2010. In early 2011, the German government enacted further legislation that accelerated the annual year-end feed-in-tariff reduction to July 1, 2011 for roof-top systems and September 1, 2011 for ground-mount projects. A change in government incentives similar to these may result in the pull-in of demand from solar module manufacturers due to increased end-user demand being driven by the incentive to purchase a solar system prior to the enactment of the decreased feed-in-tariff incentives. If solar module demand in Germany continues to grow at a rate that the German government believes is excessive or the cost to consumers of electricity becomes too large, it may consider capping the amount of PV installations that may qualify for the feed-in-tariff incentives. Also, in September 2008, the Spanish parliament adopted new legislation that decreased the feed-in-tariff for solar energy by approximately 27% and capped its subsidized PV installations at 500 MW for 2009. This event drove an over-supply of solar module inventory in the supply chain during the first half of 2009 and was one of the main drivers behind our sales volume decline in 2009 compared to 2008. In addition, many European governments are currently experiencing sovereign debt issues. As such, a risk exists that some of these governments will have to reduce current subsidies provided for PV installations in conjunction with overall tighter fiscal policies. Moreover, electric utility companies, or generators of electricity from fossil fuels or other renewable energy sources, could also lobby for changes in the relevant legislation in their markets to protect their revenue streams. Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives for solar energy, especially those in our customers' target markets, could cause our net sales to decline and harm our business. 18 Expanding our production in times of overcapacity could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Conversely, our failure to match production capacity to meet our customers' requirements could harm our business and customer relationships in the event demand for encapsulants increases. The lead time required to produce the equipment used in our encapsulant manufacturing process is normally about one year. Accordingly, we are required to order production equipment well in advance of expanding our facilities or opening new facilities and in advance of accepting additional customer orders. If such facilities are not expanded or completed on a timely basis or if anticipated customer orders do not materialize, we may not be able to generate sufficient net sales to offset the costs of new production equipment, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Furthermore, we rely in part on longer-term forecasts from our customers to plan our capital expenditures. If these forecasts prove to be inaccurate, either we may have spent too much on capacity growth, which could require us to consolidate facilities, in which case our financial results would be adversely affected, or we may have spent too little on capital expenditures, in which case we may be unable to satisfy customer demand, which could adversely affect our business. For example, our production capacity exceeded demand for our encapsulants during 2011. This drove lower capacity utilization that negatively impacted our gross margin and resulted in us closing our Florida plant and incurring a $0.8 million pre-tax charge. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2008, our manufacturing facilities generally operated at full production capacity, which constrained our ability to meet increased demand from our customers and to obtain additional customers. The future success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to increase production capacity to satisfy any increased demand from our customers. We may be unable to expand our business, satisfy customer requirements, maintain our competitive position and improve profitability if we are unable to build and operate new manufacturing facilities and increase production capacity at our existing facilities to meet any increased demand for our products. Furthermore, our ability to establish and operate new manufacturing facilities and expand production capacity is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including: •restrictions in the agreement governing our indebtedness that restrict the amount of capital that can be spent on manufacturing facilities; •inability to raise additional funds or generate sufficient cash flow from operations to purchase raw material inventory and equipment or to build additional manufacturing facilities; •delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as increases in raw material prices and long lead times or delays with equipment vendors; •delays or denials of required approvals by relevant government authorities; •diversion of significant management attention and other resources; •inability to hire qualified personnel; and •failure to execute our expansion plan effectively. If we are unable to establish or successfully operate additional manufacturing facilities or to increase production capacity at our existing facilities, as a result of the risks described above or otherwise, we may not be able to expand our business as planned and our net sales may be lower than expected. Alternatively, if we build additional manufacturing facilities or increase production capacity at our existing facilities, we may not be able to generate sufficient customer demand for our encapsulants to support the increased production levels, which would adversely affect our business and operating margins. 19 We face competition in our business from other companies producing encapsulants for solar modules. The market for encapsulants is highly competitive and continually evolving. We compete with a number of encapsulant manufacturers, some of which are large, global companies with substantial financial, manufacturing and logistical resources and strong customer relationships. If we fail to attract and retain customers for our current and future products, we will be unable to increase our revenues and market share. Our primary encapsulant competitors include Bridgestone Corporation, Hangzhou First PV Material Co., Ltd., Solutia, Inc. and Mitsui Chemicals Group, Inc. We also face limited competition from suppliers of non-EVA encapsulants including Dow Corning Corporation, Dai Nippon Printing Co., Ltd. and DuPont. We also expect to compete with new entrants to the encapsulant market, including those that may offer more advanced technological solutions, possess advanced or more efficient manufacturing capabilities or that have greater financial resources than we do. Further, as the China solar market matures, we expect additional encapsulant providers from China and the greater Asian markets to compete with us. Our competitors may develop and produce or may be currently producing encapsulants that offer advantages over our products. A widespread adoption of any of these technologies could result in a rapid decline in our position in the encapsulant market and adversely affect our revenues and margins. Indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health, harm our ability to react to changes to our business and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. On October 7, 2011, we entered into the Credit Agreement with certain lenders and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, swing line lender and letter of credit issuer. Our Credit Agreement provides for a revolving senior credit facility of up to $150.0 million, which matures on October 7, 2015. As of December 31, 2011, we have no indebtedness outstanding under the Credit Agreement. Although we believe that our current cash flows will be sufficient to cover our operating expenses in the near term, borrowings under the Credit Agreement could require us to divert funds identified for other purposes to service future indebtedness which could impair our liquidity position and negatively affect our ability to achieve our business and strategic objectives. In addition, future indebtedness could also have other significant consequences. For example, it could: •increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion, if not all, of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate expenditures; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate, including our ability to build new facilities or acquire new equipment; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; •limit our ability to raise additional financing on satisfactory terms or at all; and •adversely impact our ability to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the agreement governing our Credit Agreement, which could result in an event of default under such agreement. Our gross margins and profitability may be adversely affected by rising commodity costs. We are dependent upon certain raw and other materials, particularly resin and paper, for the manufacture of our encapsulants. During 2010 and the first half of 2011, we experienced significant raw material inflation, primarily of EVA resin which comprises approximately 50% to 55% of our cost of 20 sales. We do not believe that EVA resin can be hedged with derivatives in the commodity markets. In addition, the cost of equipment used to manufacture our encapsulants is affected by steel prices. The prices for resin, paper and steel have been volatile over the past few years and could increase. If the prices for the commodities and equipment we use in our business increase, our gross margins and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our business is dependent on a limited number of customers, which may cause significant fluctuations or result in declines in our net sales. The solar module industry is relatively concentrated, and we expect this concentration to increase as the industry begins to consolidate. As a result, we sell substantially all of our encapsulants to a limited number of solar module manufacturers. We expect that our results of operations will, for the foreseeable future, continue to depend on the sale of encapsulants to a relatively small number of customers. First Solar and Suntech, each of which accounted for at least 10% of our net sales, together accounted for 33% and 28% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Sales to First Solar accounted for 27% of our net sales in the year 2009. In addition, the top five customers accounted for approximately 53%, 43% and 55% of our net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Furthermore, participants in the solar industry, including our customers, are experiencing pressure to reduce their costs. Because we are part of the overall supply chain to our customers, any cost pressures experienced by them may affect our business and results of operations. Our customers may not continue to generate significant net sales for us. Conversely, we may be unable to meet the production demands of our customers or maintain these customer relationships. Any one of the following events may cause material fluctuations or declines in our net sales and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: •reduction, postponement or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers; •reduction in the price one or more of our significant solar customers is willing to pay for our encapsulants; •selection by one or more solar customers of products competitive with our encapsulants; •loss of one or more of our significant solar customers and failure to obtain additional or replacement customers; and •failure of any of our significant solar customers to make timely payment for products, if at all. Deterioration of our customers' financial profile may cause additional credit risk on our accounts receivable. A significant portion of our outstanding accounts receivable is derived from sales to a limited number of customers. The accounts receivable from our top five customers represented 80% and 34% of our accounts receivable balance as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. Moreover, many solar companies are facing and may continue to face significant liquidity and capital expenditure requirements, and as a result, our customers may have trouble making payments owed to us, which could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have recently reached formal agreements with certain of our customers for the payment of past due invoices. Our future bad debt expense could increase significantly if such customers do not fulfill their obligations under such agreements. Our dependence on a limited number of third-party suppliers for raw materials for our encapsulants and other significant materials used in our process could prevent us from timely delivery of encapsulants to our customers in the required quantities, which could result in order cancellations and decreased revenues. We purchase resin and paper liner, the two main components used in our manufacturing process, from a limited number of third-party suppliers. If we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with 21 these suppliers or our other suppliers, or if the suppliers' facilities are affected by events beyond our control, we may be unable to manufacture our encapsulants or our encapsulants may be available only for customers in lesser quantities, at a higher cost or after a long delay. We may be unable to pass along any price increases relating to materials costs to our customers, in which case our gross margins could be adversely affected. In addition, we do not maintain long-term supply contracts with our suppliers. Our inventory of raw materials for our encapsulants, including back-up supplies of resin, may not be sufficient in the event of a supply disruption. In 2005, we encountered a supply disruption when one of our resin suppliers had its facilities damaged by a hurricane, and another supplier simultaneously experienced a reactor fire. This forced us to use our back-up supplies of resin. The failure of a supplier to supply materials and components, or a supplier's failure to supply materials that meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements in a timely manner, could impair our ability to manufacture our products to specifications, particularly if we are unable to obtain these materials and components from alternative sources on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms. If we are forced to change suppliers, our customers may require us to undertake testing to ensure that our encapsulants meet their specifications. Technological changes in the solar energy industry or our failure to develop and introduce or integrate new technologies could render our encapsulants uncompetitive or obsolete, which would adversely affect our business. The solar energy market is very competitive, rapidly evolving and is characterized by continually changing technology requiring continuous improvements in solar modules to increase efficiency and power output and improve aesthetics. This requires us and our customers to continuously invest significant financial resources to develop new solar module technology to enhance existing solar modules to keep pace with evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements and to compete effectively in the future. Our failure to further refine our encapsulant technology and develop and introduce new or enhanced encapsulants or other products, or our competitors' development of products and technologies that perform better or are more cost effective than our products, could cause our encapsulants to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Product development activities are inherently uncertain, and we could encounter difficulties and increased costs in commercializing new technologies. As a result, our product development expenditures in our business may not produce corresponding benefits. Moreover, we produce a component utilized in the manufacturing of solar modules. New solar technologies may emerge or existing technologies may gain market share that do not require encapsulants as we produce them, or at all. Also, manufacturing methods may emerge that could be more advanced or efficient than our current manufacturing capability. Such changes could result in decreased demand for our encapsulants or render them obsolete, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Problems with product quality or product performance, including defects, could result in a decrease in customers and net sales, unexpected expenses and loss of market share. We do not offer performance warranties on our encapsulants. However, our encapsulants are complex and must meet stringent quality requirements. Products as complex as our encapsulants may contain undetected defects, especially when first introduced. For example, our encapsulants may contain defects that are not detected until after they are shipped or are installed because we cannot test for all possible scenarios that may arise in our customers' manufacturing process. These defects could cause us to incur significant costs, including costs to service or replace products, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts and significantly affect our customer relationships and business reputation. If we deliver products with defects or if there is a perception that our products contain errors or defects, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our 22 encapsulants could materially decline. In addition, we could be subject to product liability claims and could experience increased costs and expenses related to significant product liability claims or other legal judgments against us, or a widespread product recall by us or a solar module manufacturer. For example, as of December 31, 2011, we have recorded an accrual of $4.8 million relating to specific product performance matters, which amount represents management's best estimate of the costs to repair or replace such product. The majority of this accrual relates to a quality claim by one of our customers in connection with a non-encapsulant product that we purchased from a vendor in 2005 and 2006 and resold. We stopped selling this product in 2006. We may increase our accruals in future periods or incur charges in excess of that amount, which would result in increased expenses in future periods that may adversely affect our results of operations. The manufacturing process for our encapsulants is highly complex. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yield and, in some cases, cause production to be suspended. We have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. This typically occurs during the production of new encapsulants or the installation and start-up of new process technologies or equipment. For example, during the third quarter of 2010, we experienced production inefficiencies and scrap associated with ramping newly installed production capacity at our Malaysia facility that negatively impacted our financial results. As we expand our production capacity, we may experience lower yields initially as is typical with any new equipment or process. If we do not achieve planned yields, our costs of sales could increase, and product availability would decrease resulting in lower net sales than expected. Changes to existing regulations and capacity in the utility sector and the solar energy industry may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar modules, which in turn may significantly reduce demand for our products. The market for power generation products is heavily influenced by government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as the internal policies of electric utility companies. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of end user-owned power generation. In a number of countries, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. End users' purchases of alternative energy sources, including solar modules, could be deterred by these regulations and policies. For example, utility companies sometimes charge fees to larger, industrial customers for disconnecting from the electricity transmission grid or relying on the electricity transmission grid for back-up purposes. Such fees could increase the costs of using solar modules, which may lead to reduced demand for solar modules and, in turn, our encapsulants. We anticipate that solar modules and their installation will continue to be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, and environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters in various countries. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to solar modules may result in significant additional expenses to our customers, and their distributors and end users, which could cause a significant reduction in demand for solar modules and, in turn, our encapsulants. The adoption of solar energy in most parts of the world will be dependent on the capacity of applicable electricity transmission grids to distribute the increased volume of electricity to end-users. The lack of available capacity on the transmission grid could substantially impact the adoption of solar energy which could cause a significant reduction in demand for solar modules and, in turn, our encapsulants. 23 We typically rely upon trade secrets and contractual restrictions, and not patents, to protect our proprietary rights. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position and protecting our rights or defending against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly. Protection of proprietary processes, methods, documentation and other technology is critical to our business. Failure to protect, monitor and control the use of our intellectual property rights could cause us to lose our competitive advantage and incur significant expenses. We typically rely on trade secrets, trademarks and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property rights. However, the measures we take to protect our trade secrets and other intellectual property rights may be insufficient. While we enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property rights, such confidentiality provisions related to our trade secrets could be breached and may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets. Also, others may independently develop technologies or products that are similar or identical to ours. In such case, our trade secrets would not prevent third parties from competing with us. Third parties or employees may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary technologies or other intellectual property rights, which could harm our business and operating results. Policing unauthorized use of intellectual property rights can be difficult and expensive, and adequate remedies may not be available. On October 7, 2011, the Company filed a Statement of Claim with the Ontario Superior Court of Justice against Alpha Marathon Film Extrusion Technologies Inc. ("Alpha Marathon") seeking damages resulting from Alpha Marathon's misappropriation of trade secrets and an injunction barring use of those trade secrets. Alpha Marathon is an equipment line manufacturer located in Ontario, Canada. See "Item 3—Legal Proceedings." The sales cycle for our encapsulants can be lengthy, which could result in uncertainty and delays in generating net sales. The integration and testing of our encapsulants with prospective customers' solar modules or enhancements to existing customers' solar modules requires a substantial amount of time and resources. A customer may need up to one year and in some cases even longer, to test, evaluate and adopt our encapsulants and qualify a new solar module, before ordering our encapsulants. Our customers then need additional time to begin volume production of solar modules that incorporate our encapsulants. As a result, the complete sales cycle for our business can be lengthy. We may experience a significant delay between the time we increase our expenditures for product development, sales and marketing efforts and raw materials inventory for our business and the time we generate net sales, if any, from these expenditures. As a supplier to solar module manufacturers, disruptions in any other component of the supply chain to solar module manufacturers may adversely affect our customers and consequently limit the growth of our business and revenue. We supply a component to solar module manufacturers. As such, if there are disruptions in any other area of the supply chain for solar module manufacturers, it could affect the overall demand for our encapsulants. For example, the increased demand for polysilicon due to the rapid growth of the solar energy and computer industries and the significant lead time required for building additional capacity for polysilicon production led to an industry-wide shortage of polysilicon from 2005 through 2008, which is an essential raw material in the production of most of the solar modules produced by many of our customers. This and other disruptions to the supply chain may force our customers to reduce production, which in turn would decrease customer demand for our encapsulants and could adversely affect our net sales. 24 We generally operate on a purchase order basis with our customers, and their ability to cancel, reduce, or postpone orders could reduce our net sales and increase our costs. Sales to our customers are typically made through non-exclusive, short-term purchase order arrangements that specify prices and delivery parameters. The timing of placing these orders and the amounts of these orders are at our customers' discretion. Customers may cancel, reduce or postpone purchase orders with us prior to production on relatively short notice. If customers cancel, reduce or postpone existing orders or fail to make anticipated orders, it could result in the delay or loss of anticipated sales, which could lead to excess raw materials inventory and unabsorbed overhead costs. Because our encapsulants have a limited shelf life from the time they are produced until they are incorporated into a solar module, we may be required to sell any excess inventory at a reduced price, or we may not be able to sell it at all and incur an inventory write-off, which could reduce our net sales and increase our costs. Trade restrictions or other remedies emanating from unfair trade petitions filed against Chinese module manufacturers could negatively affect our business. In October 2011, a coalition of seven U.S. solar companies filed petitions with the U.S. Department of Commerce ("DOC") and International Trade Commission ("ITC") alleging that Chinese solar module manufacturers have improperly benefitted from various unfair trade practices. In December 2011, the ITC determined that that imports of crystalline silicon photovoltaic cells and modules from China have materially injured the domestic solar industry. In the event that the DOC and ITC ultimately determine that Chinese solar manufactures have engaged in dumping and/or have been the recipients of improper subsidization, significant punitive import duties on the wholesale price of solar modules made in China could be imposed. These import duties would be designed to account for the difference between the "fair value" of the solar panels and the price at which they were being sold in the United States and any countervailing subsidies received by the Chinese manufacturer. If this case is ultimately decided against the Chinese manufacturers, there could be a dramatic impact on the U.S. solar industry generally, as well as our business specifically. If import duties are imposed upon Chinese module manufacturers (who may or may not be our customers), the market price of solar modules may rise which could result in a decrease in module demand. If fewer modules are manufactured, we may experience a decrease in demand for our encapsulants. In addition, the outcome of this case could also negatively affect our relationship with our Chinese and other customers. There are inherent uncertainties and unforeseen consequences in these types of cases. An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition and/or limit our ability to engage in certain ongoing and intended business activities, including without limitation, the expansion of our current business operations in China. Our substantial international operations subject us to a number of risks. We operate in several countries worldwide. Of our total net sales, 73.6%, 61.5% and 42.6% were generated from outside the United States in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and we expect that our international operations will continue to grow. As such, our international operations are subject to a number of risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow, including: •difficulty in enforcing agreements in foreign legal systems; •foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade and investment, including currency exchange controls; 25 •potentially adverse tax consequences; •fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect our profitability in U.S. dollars; •potential noncompliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 ("FCPA"), the Office of Foreign Assets Control and similar non-U.S. laws and regulations; •inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; •labor strikes, especially those affecting transportation and shipping; •risk of nationalization of private enterprises; •changes in general economic and political conditions in the countries in which we operate, including changes in the government incentives on which our module manufacturing customers and their customers rely; •unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements, including those with respect to local content rules, environmental protection, export duties and quotas; •disruptions in our business operations or damage to strategic assets that may not be recoverable from applicable insurance policies caused by potential unfavorable weather patterns in certain locations of the world including, but not limited to, nor'easters, earthquakes, typhoons and hurricanes; •difficulty with staffing and managing widespread operations; and •difficulty of and costs relating to compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the international markets in which we operate. If we are unable to attract, train and retain key personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain management, operations and technical personnel. There is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel for our business, and we may be unable to attract or retain our technical personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We may be subject to claims that we have infringed, misappropriated or otherwise violated the patent or other intellectual property rights of a third party. The outcome of any such claims is uncertain and any unfavorable result could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to claims by third parties that we have infringed, misappropriated or otherwise violated their intellectual property rights. These claims may be costly to defend, and we may ultimately be unsuccessful. An adverse determination in any such litigation could subject us to significant liability to third parties (potentially including treble damages), require us to seek licenses from third parties (which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all), make substantial one-time or ongoing royalty payments, redesign our products or subject us to temporary or permanent injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our products, the use of our technologies or the conduct of our business. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such litigation. In addition, we may have no insurance coverage in connection with such litigation and may have to bear all costs arising from any such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. Any of these 26 outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by seasonal trends and construction cycles. We may be subject to industry-specific seasonal fluctuations in the future, particularly in climates that experience colder weather during the winter months, such as Germany. There are various reasons for seasonality fluctuations, mostly related to economic incentives and weather patterns. Prior to 2010, the construction of solar energy systems in Germany was concentrated in the second half of the calendar year, largely due to the annual reduction of the applicable minimum feed-in-tariff. In early 2011, the German government enacted further legislation that accelerated the annual year-end feed-in-tariff reduction to July 1, 2011 for roof-top systems and September 1, 2011 for ground-mount projects. A change in government incentives similar to those may result in the pull-in of demand from solar module manufacturers due to increased end-user demand being driven by the incentive to purchase a solar system prior to the enactment of the decreased feed-in-tariff incentives. As such, we may see atypical sales during one reporting period as compared to another. In the United States, solar module customers will sometimes make purchasing decisions towards the end of the year in order to take advantage of tax credits or for budgetary reasons. In addition, construction levels are typically slower in colder months. Accordingly, our business and results of operations could be affected by seasonal fluctuations in the future. Fluctuations in exchange rates could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, even if our underlying business results improve or remain steady. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, and we are exposed to foreign exchange rate risk because a significant portion of our net sales and costs are currently denominated in foreign currencies, primarily Euros, which we convert to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. We do not engage in any hedging activities with respect to currency fluctuations. Changes in exchange rates on the translation of the earnings in foreign currencies into U.S. dollars are directly reflected in our financial results. As such, to the extent the value of the U.S. dollar increases against these foreign currencies, it will negatively impact our net sales, even if our results of operations have improved or remained steady. While the currency of our net sales and costs are generally matched, to the extent our costs and net sales are not denominated in the same currency for a particular location, we could experience further exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations and may incur net foreign currency losses in the future. We are a holding company with no business operations of our own and depend on our subsidiaries for cash. We are a holding company with no significant business operations of our own. Our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. Dividends from, and cash generated by, our subsidiaries are our principal sources of cash to repay any indebtedness, fund operations and pay dividends, if any. Accordingly, our ability to repay any indebtedness, fund operations and pay any dividends to our stockholders is dependent on the earnings and the distributions of funds from our subsidiaries. In addition, our subsidiaries are permitted under our Credit Agreement to incur additional indebtedness that may severely restrict or prohibit the making of distributions, the payment of dividends or the making of loans by our subsidiaries to us. Compliance with environmental and health and safety regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity, potentially significant liabilities, monetary damages and fines. We are required to comply with federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations regarding protection of the environment and health and safety. If more stringent laws and regulations are 27 adopted in the future, the costs of compliance with these new laws and regulations could be substantial. If we do not comply with such present or future laws and regulations or related permits, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations. We use, generate and discharge hazardous substances, chemicals and wastes in our product development and manufacturing activities. In addition, some of our facilities are located on properties with a history of use involving hazardous substances, chemicals and wastes and may be contaminated. For example, we are in the process of performing environmental investigations and remediation activities at our 10 Water Street, Enfield, Connecticut and 18 Craftsman Road, East Windsor, Connecticut locations. During our investigations, each site was found to contain the presence of various containments. Any failure by us to control the use of, to remediate the presence of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of, such substances, chemicals or wastes could subject us to potentially significant liabilities, clean-up costs, monetary damages, fines or suspensions in our business operations. See "Item 1—Business—Environmental Regulation." We may undertake acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or other strategic alliances, which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business, and such undertakings may be unsuccessful. Acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances may expose us to new operational, regulatory, market and geographic risks as well as risks associated with additional capital requirements. These risks include: •our inability to integrate new operations, personnel, products, services and technologies; •unforeseen or hidden liabilities, including exposure to lawsuits associated with newly acquired companies; •the diversion of resources from our existing business; •disagreement with joint venture or strategic alliance partners; •contravention of regulations governing cross-border investment; •failure to comply with laws and regulations, as well as industry or technical standards of the overseas markets into which we expand; •our inability to generate sufficient net sales to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions, strategic investments, joint venture or other strategic alliances; •potential loss of, or harm to, employee or customer relationships; •diversion of our management's time; and •disagreements as to whether opportunities belong to us or the joint venture. Any of these events could disrupt our ability to manage our business, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Such risks could also result in our failure to derive the intended benefits of the acquisitions, strategic investments, joint ventures or strategic alliances, and we may be unable to recover our investment in such initiatives. Liabilities with respect to our divested QA business may have a significant effect on our financial condition. In connection with the divestiture of our QA business in September 2011, we agreed to indemnify the buyer for certain potential liabilities not reflected on our balance sheet and related to our operation of the QA business prior to the closing of the transaction. However, the first $25K of the buyer's losses resulting from each claim relating to any services performed or products and services used by our QA business prior to the closing will not be covered by our indemnity. While we maintain insurance to protect us from professional liability claims related to our operation of the QA business 28 prior to the divestiture, such insurance may not be available, is subject to a deductible and may not be adequate to cover all the indemnification obligations to the buyer that we may incur. In addition, we agreed to indemnify the buyer for losses resulting from our breach of representations or covenants in the divestiture documents, subject to deductibles, a cap, survival periods and other limitations in certain circumstances. As a consequence, we may be obligated to make payments to the buyer of our QA business that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. If we are required to incur a non-cash write down of all or part of our goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets, our reported net earnings could be materially adversely affected. We had $82.5 million of goodwill and $143.9 million of definite-lived intangible assets at December 31, 2011. We are required to periodically, at least annually, determine if our goodwill has become impaired, in which case we would write down the impaired portion of the intangible asset. The definite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and such assets are also evaluated for impairment when triggering events occur. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we recorded a goodwill impairment of $63.9 million. Impairment of intangible assets may be triggered by developments out of our control, such as worsening economic conditions, reduction of government subsidies, technological change, intensified competition, sustained reduction in the market capitalization of our common stock or other matters causing a decline in expected future cash flows. We have received financial incentives from government bodies in certain foreign jurisdictions that are based on the maintenance of various requirements. If such requirements are not maintained, the Company may lose the financial incentives, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We have received financial incentives from government entities in certain foreign jurisdictions that are based on the maintenance of various requirements. For example, our Spanish subsidiary has received grants for production equipment that requires us to maintain a specific level of employment. We also have a tax holiday in Malaysia through 2014. The tax holiday is based on and may be renewed for an additional five years if our Malaysian subsidiary meets certain metrics surrounding profitability, asset base and employment levels. If we do not satisfy these requirements in the future, we may not qualify for future incentives or may be required to refund a portion of previously granted incentives, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of a new U.S. tax legislation, or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the Unites States and the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. Our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge for inter-company transactions. We are subject to potential tax examinations in these various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other tax positions and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these examinations in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision in accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these potential examinations, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of examinations could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore, could have a material impact on our tax provision, net earnings, and cash flows. In addition, our future effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, loss of our Malaysian tax holiday, changes in the mix of earnings, changing in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. In addition, recently announced proposals for new U.S. tax legislation could have a material effect on the results of our operations, if enacted. 29 Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock As a public company, we are subject to additional financial and other reporting and corporate governance requirements that may be difficult for us to satisfy. Prior to November 2009, we operated our business as a private company. Since the completion of our initial public offering ("IPO") in November 2009, we have been required to file with the SEC, annual and quarterly information and other reports that are specified in Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. We are required to ensure that we have the ability to prepare financial statements that are fully compliant with all SEC reporting requirements on a timely basis. We are also subject to other reporting and corporate governance requirements, including the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"), and certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the regulations promulgated thereunder, which impose significant compliance obligations upon us. Beginning with the filing of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period June 30, 2012, we will also be required to comply with the SEC requirement to file our financial statements with the Phase II tagging of extensible business reporting language, or XBRL, which is a computer language for electronic communication of business and financial data. We may not be successful in implementing these requirements and implementing them could adversely affect our business or operating results. In addition, if we fail to implement the requirements with respect to our internal accounting and audit functions, our ability to report our operating results on a timely and accurate basis could be negatively affected. We have implemented the standards required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("Section 404"), and failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 could have a material adverse effect on us. We have documented and tested our internal control procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404, which requires an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are not able to maintain adequate compliance with the requirements of Section 404 in future years, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis and may suffer adverse regulatory consequences or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules and may breach the covenants under our Credit Agreement. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Insiders have substantial control over us, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. Our principal stockholders, directors and executive officers and entities affiliated with them owned approximately 34% of the outstanding shares of our common stock at December 31, 2011. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, would be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. In addition, we have elected to opt out of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a "business combination" with an "interested stockholder," and we will be able to enter into such transactions with our principal stockholders. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our Company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common 30 stock as part of a sale of our Company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. We expect that our stock price may continue to fluctuate significantly, which could cause the value of your investment to decline, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above your purchase price. Securities markets worldwide have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. In particular, the market prices of many companies in the solar industry have recently declined substantially in value and have been extremely volatile. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. The trading price of our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to wide price fluctuations in response to various factors, including: •market conditions in the broader stock market; •a significant amount of short selling interest in our common stock; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial and operating results; •introduction of new products by us or our competitors; •issuance of new or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations; •investor perceptions of us and the solar energy industry; •sales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our stock; •potential action of corporate raiders or other potential acquirers of our Company if our stock price is undervalued; •additions or departures of key personnel; •regulatory or political developments; •litigation and governmental investigations; and •changing economic conditions. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock or have become activist shareholders. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, or become active with demands, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit and responding to various requests. These events clearly could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. If a substantial number of shares are sold in a short period of time, the market price of our common stock could decline. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that such stockholders might sell shares of common stock could also depress the market price of our common stock. As of March 1, 2012, we had 41,618,093 shares of our common stock outstanding, some of which are subject to vesting. Our directors, executive officers and affiliates hold 13,962,835 of these shares. Subject to Rule 144 holding periods and vesting, these shares are eligible for sale in the public market. 31 A decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our stock or if our results of operations do not meet their expectations, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our Company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, or if our results of operations do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline. Some provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter third parties from acquiring us and diminish the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide for, among other things: •restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to call a special meeting and the business that can be conducted at such meeting; •restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to remove a director or fill a vacancy on the board of directors; •our ability to issue preferred stock with terms that the board of directors may determine, without stockholder approval; •the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors; •a prohibition of action by written consent of stockholders unless such action is recommended by all directors then in office; and •advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations. These provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change of control of our Company that is in the best interest of our minority stockholders. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging future takeover attempts. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, for the foreseeable future to fund the development and growth of our business. We do not intend to pay any dividends to holders of our common stock and the Credit Agreement restricts the amount of dividends we can pay. As a result, capital appreciation in the price of our common stock, if any, may be your only source of gain on an investment in our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation contains a provision renouncing our interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities. Our certificate of incorporation provides that we renounce our interest or expectancy in certain corporate opportunities which are from time to time presented to DLJ Merchant Banking Partners IV, L.P. and its affiliated investment funds, or DLJMB. Under these provisions, neither DLJMB, its affiliates and subsidiaries, nor any of their officers, directors, agents, stockholders, 32 members or partners will have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. For instance, a director of our Company who also serves as a director, officer or employee of DLJMB or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates may pursue certain acquisition or other opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, such acquisition or other opportunities may not be available to us. These potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects if attractive corporate opportunities are allocated by DLJMB to itself, its subsidiaries or affiliates or third parties instead of to us. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 