Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, our ability to make cash distributions to our shareholders could be impaired and the trading price of our common shares could decline. You should know that many of the risks described may apply to more than just the subsection in which we grouped them for the purpose of this presentation. Risks related to our business and properties We have a limited operating history, own only five hotel properties currently and may not be able to successfully operate our business or generate sufficient operating cash flows to sustain or increase distributions to our shareholders. We were organized in June 2009 and commenced operations upon completion of our IPO in January 2010. Our ability to sustain or increase distributions to our shareholders depends on many factors, including the financial performance of our properties, the availability of additional attractive acquisition opportunities that satisfy our investment strategies and our success in identifying and consummating them on favorable terms, the level and volatility of interest rates, readily accessible short-term and long-term financing on favorable terms and conditions in the financial markets, the real estate market and the economy, as to which no assurance can be given. We face competition in acquiring attractive properties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire properties with attractive returns or will not seek properties with greater risk to obtain the same level of returns or that the value of our properties in the future will not decline substantially. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our five current hotel properties will continue to generate sufficient operating cash flows to pay our operating expenses and enable us to sustain or increase the amount or rate of distributions we make to our shareholders. The geographic concentration of our properties in three metropolitan areas could leave us disproportionately vulnerable to an economic downturn, regulatory changes or acts of nature in those areas, which could adversely affect our operating performance and cash available for shareholder distributions. As of the date of this report, our hotel investments have been concentrated in and around the metropolitan areas of Boston, Massachusetts, Los Angeles, California and San Francisco, California. As a result, the economic conditions in these states generally, and these metropolitan areas specifically, as well as changes in laws and regulations, unforeseen acts of nature, demographics and similar factors that may result in decreased travel or lodging demand in these areas could adversely affect revenues, costs and operating performance at our properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the amount of cash available for distributions to our shareholders. Failure of the lodging industry to exhibit sustained improvement or to improve as expected may adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan. A substantial part of our business plan is based on our belief that the lodging markets in which we invest will experience improving economic fundamentals in the future. In particular, our business strategy is dependent on our expectation that key industry performance indicators, especially RevPAR, will continue to improve in 2011 and industry performance will accelerate for several years thereafter. There can be no assurance as to whether or to what extent, lodging industry fundamentals will continue to improve. In the event conditions in the industry do 9 Table of Contents not sustain improvement or improve as we expect, or deteriorate, our ability to execute our business plan may be adversely affected. Because our officers have broad discretion to invest our available cash and the borrowing capacity available from time to time under our revolving credit facility, they may make investments where the returns are substantially below expectations or which result in net operating losses. Our officers have broad discretion, within the general investment policies established by our board of trustees, to invest our available cash and borrowing capacity and to determine the timing of such investments. In addition, our investment policies may be amended or revised from time-to-time at the discretion of our board of trustees, without a vote of our shareholders. Such discretion could result in investments that may not yield returns consistent with investors’ expectations or with which you may not agree. These factors may increase the uncertainty, and thus the risk, of investing in our common shares. Our failure to invest our available funds effectively or find suitable properties to acquire in a timely manner or on acceptable terms could result in returns that are substantially below expectations or result in losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. In addition, a portion of our executive officers’ bonus compensation for 2011 is linked to the amount of capital we deploy during the year. This compensation system may provide them with incentives to invest our available funds during 2011, even if suitable opportunities are not available on acceptable terms. As a result, properties acquired may not yield favorable returns. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify assets that meet our investment objectives, that we will be successful in consummating any investment opportunities we identify or that one or more investments we may make will generate revenue, income or cash flow. Our inability to do any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Our success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. We depend on the efforts and expertise of our president and chief executive officer and our executive vice president, chief financial officer, and treasurer to manage our day-to-day operations and strategic business direction. The loss of their services, and our inability to find suitable replacements, could have an adverse effect on our operations. We may not succeed in managing our growth, in which case our financial results could be adversely affected. As of the date of this report, we have only seven employees. Our ability to grow our business depends upon our senior executive officers’ business contacts and their ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage additional personnel. We may not be able to hire and train sufficient personnel or develop management, information and operating systems suitable for our expected growth. If we are unable to manage any future growth effectively, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. Our returns could be negatively impacted if our third-party hotel managers do not manage our properties in our best interests. Since U.S. federal income tax laws restrict REITs and their subsidiaries from operating or managing a hotel, we do not operate or manage our hotels. Instead, we lease all of our hotels to our TRS and our TRS retains third-party managers to operate our hotels pursuant to management agreements. Our cash flow from the hotels may be adversely affected if our managers fail to provide quality services and amenities or if they, our franchisors, or their respective affiliates fail to maintain a quality brand name. In addition, our hotel managers or their affiliates may manage, and in some cases may own, may have invested in or may have provided credit support or operating guarantees to hotels that compete with our hotels, any of which could result in conflicts of interest. As a result, our hotel managers may make decisions regarding competing lodging facilities that are not in our best interests. 10 Table of Contents We do not have the authority to require any hotel to be operated in a particular manner or to govern any particular aspect of the daily operations of any hotel (for instance, setting room rates). Thus, even if we believe our hotels are being operated inefficiently or in a manner that does not result in satisfactory occupancy rates, RevPAR and ADR, we are not able to force the management company to change its method of operation of our hotels. If necessary, we generally will attempt to resolve issues with our hotel managers through discussions and negotiations. However, if we are unable to reach satisfactory results through discussions and negotiations, we may choose to litigate the dispute or submit the matter to third-party dispute resolution. We can only seek redress if a management company violates the terms of the applicable management agreement with our TRS, and then only to the extent of the remedies provided for under the terms of the management agreement. In the event that we need to replace any of our management companies, we may be required by the terms of the management agreement to pay substantial termination fees and may experience significant disruptions at the affected hotels. Funds spent to maintain franchisor operating standards or the loss of a franchise license may reduce cash available for shareholder distributions. Certain of our hotel properties operate under franchise agreements and we anticipate that some of the hotels we acquire in the future also will operate under franchise agreements. We are therefore subject to the risks inherent in concentrating our hotel properties in several franchise brands. These risks include reductions in business following negative publicity related to one of our brands. The maintenance of the franchise licenses for our hotels is subject to our franchisors’ operating standards and other terms and conditions. Franchisors periodically inspect our hotel properties to ensure that we and our lessees and hotel managers follow their standards. Failure by us, our TRS or one of our hotel managers to maintain these standards or other terms and conditions could result in a franchise license being terminated. If a franchise license terminates due to our failure to make required improvements or to otherwise comply with its terms, we may also be liable to the franchisor for a termination payment, which will vary by franchisor and by hotel. As a condition of our continued holding of a franchise license, a franchisor could also possibly require us to make capital expenditures, even if we do not believe the capital improvements are necessary or desirable or will result in an acceptable return on our investment. Nonetheless, we may risk losing a franchise license if we do not make franchisor-required capital expenditures. If a franchisor terminates the franchise license, we may try either to obtain a suitable replacement franchise or to operate the hotel without a franchise license. The loss of a franchise license could materially and adversely affect the operations or the underlying value of the hotel because of the loss of associated name recognition, marketing support and centralized reservation systems provided by the franchisor. A loss of a franchise license for one or more hotels could materially and adversely affect our revenues. This loss of revenues could, therefore, also adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distributions to our shareholders. Our ability to maintain quarterly distributions to our shareholders is subject to fluctuations in our financial performance, operating results and capital improvement requirements. As a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income (excluding net capital gains) each year to our shareholders. In the event of future downturns in our operating results and financial performance or unanticipated capital improvements to our hotels, including capital improvements which may be required by our franchisors, we may be unable to declare or pay distributions to our shareholders. The timing and amount of distributions are in the sole discretion of our board of trustees which considers, among other factors, our financial performance, debt service obligations and debt covenants, and capital expenditure requirements. We intend to pay regular quarterly dividends but cannot assure you that we will continue to generate sufficient cash in order to fund distributions in the same aggregate amounts as we have paid in the past or at all. Among the factors which could adversely affect our results of operations and our distributions to shareholders is the failure of our TRS to make required rent payments because of reduced net operating profits or operating 11 Table of Contents losses, or increased debt service requirements and capital expenditures at our hotels, including capital expenditures required by the franchisors of our hotels. Among the factors which could reduce the net operating profits of our TRS are decreases in hotel revenues and increases in hotel operating expenses. Hotel revenue can decrease for a number of reasons, including increased competition from a new supply of hotel rooms and decreased demand for hotel rooms. These factors can reduce both occupancy and room rates at our hotels. We lease all of our hotels to our TRS, and our TRS is subject to hotel operating risks, including risks of sustaining operating losses after payment of hotel operating expenses, including management fees. These risks can adversely affect the net operating profits of our TRS, our operating expenses and the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Compliance with covenants in our revolving credit facility and other debt instruments may limit our freedom to operate our business and impair our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. The terms of our revolving credit facility and other debt instruments require us to comply with customary financial and other covenants, including covenants that: • require us to maintain minimum levels of debt to adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA; • require us to maintain maximum levels of total debt to total assets; • require us to maintain minimum levels of tangible net worth; • limit our ability to make certain investments; • prevent us from employing leverage in excess of a percentage of our total asset value; • prohibit us from making annual distributions to our shareholders in excess of 90% of our funds from operations, or FFO, over time, except for such distributions as may be required to enable us to maintain our qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes and prohibit us from making any distributions to shareholders while there is a continuing event of default; • impose concentration limitations on the value and other characteristics of assets comprising the collateral pool securing the revolving credit facility; and • limit our ability to engage in a change in control transaction without causing the amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility to become immediately due and payable. These restrictions may interfere with our ability to obtain financing or to engage in other business activities, which may inhibit our ability to grow our business and increase revenues. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, then the related indebtedness, and any other debt containing cross-default or cross-acceleration rights for our lenders, could become immediately due and payable. We cannot assure you that we could pay all of our debt if it became due, or that we could continue in that instance to make distributions to our shareholders and maintain our REIT qualification. If we are unable to repay or refinance our revolving credit facility and other debt, we may be unable to sustain or increase distributions to our shareholders and our share price may be adversely affected. Borrowings under our revolving credit facility and our other existing and future debt subject us to many risks, including the risks that: • our cash flow from operations will be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest; • our debt may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing cash available for distribution to our shareholders, funds available for operations and capital expenditures, future business opportunities or other purposes; 12 Table of Contents • the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of the debt being refinanced; and • the terms of our debt may limit our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and therefore adversely affect the market price of our common shares. If we do not have sufficient funds to repay our debt at maturity, it may be necessary to refinance this debt through additional debt financing, private or public offerings of debt securities, or additional equity financings. If we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we may be forced to dispose of hotel properties on disadvantageous terms, potentially resulting in losses adversely affecting cash flow from operating activities. We have placed, and may continue to place, mortgages on our hotel properties to secure our debt. To the extent we cannot meet our debt service obligations, we risk losing some or all of those properties to foreclosure. Interest expense on our debt may limit our cash available to fund our growth strategies and shareholder distributions. Higher interest rates could increase debt service requirements on floating rate debt and could reduce funds available for operations, distributions to our shareholders, future business opportunities or other purposes. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make shareholder distributions. We may obtain in the future one or more forms of interest rate protection—in the form of swap agreements, interest rate cap contracts or similar agreements—to hedge against the possible negative effects of interest rate fluctuations. However, we cannot assure you that any hedging will adequately relieve the adverse effects of interest rate increases or that counterparties under these agreements will honor their obligations thereunder. In addition, we may be subject to risks of default by hedging counterparties. Adverse economic conditions could also cause the terms on which we borrow to be unfavorable. We could be required to liquidate one or more of our hotel investments at times which may not permit us to receive an attractive return on our investments in order to meet our debt service obligations. Joint venture investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on a co-venturer’s financial condition and disputes between us and our co-venturers. We may co-invest in the future with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests in or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of a property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. In such event, we would not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Partners or co-venturers may have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Disputes between us and partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or trustees from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, actions by, or disputes with, partners or co-venturers might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners or co-venturers. Our sourcing agreement with Hyatt does not require Hyatt to provide us with any potential acquisition opportunities and, as a result, we may not be able to grow our business as rapidly as we prefer. We consider Hyatt’s willingness to refer potential acquisition opportunities to us, in Hyatt’s sole discretion, to be an important component of our sourcing relationship with Hyatt. Under the terms of our sourcing agreement, however, Hyatt is not obligated to refer any of these opportunities to us. Moreover, although we are obligated to 13 Table of Contents offer Hyatt the right to manage or franchise any unbranded properties we may acquire, nothing in our agreement requires Hyatt to accept any offer we make. As a result, we may not realize the benefits of this agreement in full, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Risks related to the hotel industry Economic conditions may adversely affect the lodging industry. The performance of the lodging industry has historically been closely linked to the performance of the general economy and, specifically, growth in U.S. GDP. It is also sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. Declines in corporate budgets and consumer demand due to adverse general economic conditions, risks affecting or reducing travel patterns, lower consumer confidence or adverse political conditions can lower the revenues and profitability of our future hotel properties and therefore the net operating profits of our TRS. The recent global economic downturn led to a significant decline in demand for products and services provided by the lodging industry, lower occupancy levels and significantly reduced room rates. Recovery of demand for products and services provided by the lodging industry generally trails improvement in economic conditions. Though we have seen improvement in economic and industry fundamentals, we cannot assure you that these conditions will continue to improve or that the recovery is sustainable. Worsening of the U.S. economy, if experienced, would likely have an adverse impact on our revenues and negatively affect our profitability. Our ability to sustain the amount of distributions we make to our shareholders may be affected by various operating risks common to the lodging industry. Our hotel properties are subject to various operating risks common to the lodging industry, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: • competition from other hotel properties in our markets; • over-building of hotels in our markets, which will adversely affect occupancy and revenues at the hotels we currently own or may acquire; • dependence on business and commercial travelers and tourism; • increases in energy costs and other expenses affecting travel, which may affect travel patterns and reduce the number of business and commercial travelers and tourists; • increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors that may not be offset by increased room rates; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; • adverse effects of international, national, regional and local economic and market conditions; • unforeseen events beyond our control, such as terrorist attacks, travel related health concerns, including pandemics and epidemics, such as H1N1 influenza (swine flu), avian bird flu and SARS, political instability, regional hostilities, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities, travel related accidents and unusual weather patterns, including natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tsunamis or earthquakes; • adverse effects of a downturn in the lodging industry; and • risks generally associated with the ownership of hotel properties and real estate, as we discuss in detail below. These factors could reduce the net operating profits of our TRS, which in turn could adversely affect the amount or frequency of distributions we make to our shareholders. 14 Table of Contents Our investment opportunities and growth prospects may be affected by competition for acquisitions. We compete for investment opportunities with other entities, some of which have substantially greater financial resources than we do. This competition may generally limit the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us, which may limit our ability to grow. This competition may also increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell to us, making it more difficult for us to acquire new properties on attractive terms or at all. Our revenues and cash available for shareholder distributions may be affected by the seasonality of the hotel industry. The hotel industry is seasonal in nature. This seasonality can be expected to cause quarterly fluctuations in our revenues. Our quarterly earnings may be adversely affected by factors outside our control, including weather conditions and poor economic factors. As a result, we may have to enter into short-term borrowings in certain quarters in order to offset these fluctuations in revenues and to sustain the amount or quarterly rate of distributions we make to our shareholders. The cyclical nature of the lodging industry may cause fluctuations in our operating performance. The lodging industry is highly cyclical in nature. Fluctuations in lodging demand and, therefore, operating performance, are caused largely by general economic and local market conditions, which subsequently affect levels of business and leisure travel. In addition to general economic conditions, new hotel room supply is an important factor that can affect the lodging industry’s performance and overbuilding has the potential to further exacerbate the negative impact of an economic recession. Room rates and occupancy, and thus RevPAR, tend to increase when demand growth exceeds supply growth. Although we believe that supply growth peaked in late 2008 to early 2009, and that lodging demand has begun to rebound and will grow for the next several years, no assurances can be made. An unsustainable rebound in lodging demand or a increased growth in lodging supply, could result in returns that are substantially below expectations or result in losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the amount of cash available for distributions to our shareholders. Our concentration in particular segments of a single industry limits our ability to offset the risks of an industry downturn, which could adversely affect our operating performance and cash available for shareholder distributions. Our entire business is hotel-related. Therefore, a downturn in the lodging industry, in general, and the upper-upscale segment that is the primary focus of our operations, in particular, will have a material adverse effect on our lease revenues and the net operating profits of our TRS and amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. The ongoing need for capital expenditures at our hotel properties may limit the amounts available for shareholder distributions. Our hotel properties will require periodic renovations and other capital improvements, including replacements, from time-to-time, of furniture, fixtures and equipment. The franchisors of our hotels also require periodic capital improvements as a condition of keeping the franchise licenses. In addition, our hotel managers and lenders require that we set aside annual amounts for capital improvements to our hotel properties. These capital improvements may give rise to the following risks: • possible environmental problems; • construction cost overruns and delays; • a possible shortage of available cash to fund capital improvements and the related possibility that financing for these capital improvements may not be available to us on affordable terms; and • uncertainties as to market demand or a loss of market demand after capital improvements have begun. 15 Table of Contents The costs of all these capital improvements could adversely affect our financial condition and amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. Hotel development is subject to timing, budgeting and other risks. To the extent we acquire hotel properties that are under development, these risks may adversely affect our operating results and may limit the amounts available for shareholder distributions. We may acquire hotel properties that are under development if suitable opportunities arise, taking into consideration general economic conditions. Hotel properties involve a number of development risks, including risks associated with: • construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs; • receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; • development costs incurred for projects that are not pursued to completion; • acts of God, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires that could adversely impact a project; • ability to raise capital; and • governmental restrictions on the nature or size of a project. To the extent we invest in hotel properties under development, we cannot assure you that any development project will be completed on time, within budget, or at all. The developer’s inability to complete a project on time or within budget may adversely affect the hotel’s projected operating results and limit amounts available for distributions to our shareholders. The hotel business is capital-intensive, and our inability to obtain financing could limit our growth. Our hotel properties will require periodic capital expenditures and renovation to remain competitive. Acquisitions or development of additional hotel properties will require significant capital expenditures. We may not be able to fund capital improvements or acquisitions solely from cash provided from our operating activities because we must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income (net of capital gains) each year to maintain our qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, our ability to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions or hotel development through any retained earnings would be limited. Consequently, we rely upon the availability of debt or equity capital to fund hotel acquisitions and improvements. Our ability to grow through acquisitions or development of hotels will be limited if we cannot obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing which will depend on market conditions. Neither our declaration of trust nor our bylaws limits the amount of debt that we can incur. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional equity or debt financing or that we will be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms. The increasing use of Internet travel intermediaries by consumers may adversely affect our profitability. Some of our hotel rooms are be booked through Internet travel intermediaries, including, but not limited to, Travelocity.com, Expedia.com and Priceline.com. As these Internet bookings increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from us and our hotel managers. Moreover, some of these Internet travel intermediaries are attempting to offer hotel rooms as a commodity, by increasing the importance of price and general indicators of quality (such as “three-star downtown hotel”) at the expense of brand identification. These agencies hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their reservations system rather than to the brands under which our properties are franchised. Although most of the business for our hotels is expected to be derived from traditional channels, if the amount of sales made through Internet intermediaries increases significantly, room revenues may flatten or decrease and our profitability could be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Future terrorist attacks or changes in terror alert levels could adversely affect our growth strategies, our ability to obtain financing, our ability to insure our properties and our overall financial condition. Previous terrorist attacks in the U.S. and subsequent terrorist alerts have adversely affected the travel and hospitality industries over the past decade. The impact that terrorist attacks in the U.S. or elsewhere could have on domestic and international markets and our business in particular is indeterminable. It is possible that such attacks or the threat of such attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to finance our business, our ability to insure our properties and/or our results of operations and financial condition as a whole. Uninsured and underinsured losses could adversely affect our operating results and the amount of cash available for distributions to our shareholders. We maintain comprehensive insurance on each of the hotel properties we own, including liability, fire and extended coverage, of the type and amount we believe are customarily obtained for or by hotel owners. Various types of catastrophic losses, like earthquakes and floods, losses from foreign terrorist activities, such as those on September 11, 2001, or losses from domestic terrorist activities, such as the Oklahoma City bombing on April 19, 1995, may not be fully insurable. In the event of a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the full current market value or replacement cost of our lost investment. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a hotel, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might also keep us from using insurance proceeds to replace or renovate a hotel after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under those circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might be inadequate to restore our economic position on the damaged or destroyed property. Noncompliance with governmental regulations could adversely affect our operating results. Environmental matters Our hotel properties are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws. Under these laws, courts and government agencies have the authority to require us, as the owner of a contaminated property, to clean up the property, even if we did not know of or were not responsible for the contamination. These laws also apply to persons who owned a property at the time it became contaminated. In addition to the costs of cleanup, environmental contamination can affect the value of a property and, therefore, an owner’s ability to borrow funds using the property as collateral or to sell the property. Under the environmental laws, courts and government agencies also have the authority to require that a person who sent waste to a waste disposal facility, such as a landfill or an incinerator, pay for the cleanup of that facility if it becomes contaminated and threatens human health or the environment. A person that arranges for the disposal, transports for disposal, or treatment of a hazardous substance at a property owned by another may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous substances released into the environment at that property. Furthermore, various court decisions have established that third parties may recover damages for injury caused by property contamination. For instance, a person exposed to asbestos while staying in a hotel may seek to recover damages if he or she suffers injury from the asbestos. Lastly, some of these environmental laws restrict the use of a property or place conditions on various activities. An example would be laws that require a business using chemicals (such as swimming pool chemicals at a hotel property) to manage them carefully and to notify local officials that the chemicals are being used. The costs to clean up a contaminated property, to defend against a claim or to comply with environmental laws could be material and could adversely affect the funds available for distribution to our shareholders. We can make no assurances that (1) future laws or regulations will not impose material environmental liabilities or 17 Table of Contents (2) the current environmental condition of our hotel properties will not be affected by the condition of properties in the vicinity of our properties (such as the presence of leaking underground storage tanks) or by third parties unrelated to us. Americans with Disabilities Act and other changes in governmental rules and regulations Under the ADA, all public accommodations must meet various federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with the ADA’s requirements could require removal of access barriers, and non-compliance could result in the U.S. government imposing fines or in private litigants winning damages. Although we believe that our properties substantially comply with present requirements of the ADA, we have not conducted a comprehensive audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance, and one or more properties may not be fully compliant with the ADA. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the incurrence of additional costs to attain compliance. The obligation to make readily achievable accommodations is an ongoing one, and we will continue to assess our properties and to make alterations as appropriate in this respect. If we are required to make substantial modifications to our hotels, whether to comply with the ADA or other changes in governmental rules and regulations, our financial condition, results of operations and amount of cash available for distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected. We are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor, which could increase our operating costs, reduce the flexibility of our hotel managers to adjust the size of the workforce at our hotel properties and impair our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We have entered into management agreements with third-party hotel managers to operate our hotel properties. Our hotel managers are responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each of our hotels. Although we do not directly employ or manage employees at our hotels, we are subject to many of the costs and risks generally associated with the hotel labor force, particularly those hotels with unionized labor. From time to time, hotel operations may be disrupted as a result of strikes, lockouts, public demonstrations or other negative actions and publicity. We also may incur increased legal costs and indirect labor costs as a result of contract disputes or other events. Additionally, hotels where our managers have collective bargaining agreements with employees are more highly affected by labor force activities than others. The resolution of labor disputes or re-negotiated labor contracts could lead to increased labor costs, either by increases in wages or benefits or by changes in work rules that raise hotel operating costs. Furthermore, labor agreements may limit the ability of our hotel managers to reduce the size of hotel workforces during an economic downturn because collective bargaining agreements are negotiated between the hotel managers and labor unions. We do not have the ability to control the outcome of these negotiations. General risks related to the real estate industry Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and harm our financial condition. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more hotel properties in our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions may be limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: • adverse changes in international, national, regional and local economic and market conditions; • changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of debt financing; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; • the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures; • changes in operating expenses; and • civil unrest, acts of God, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses, and acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of the terrorist acts, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001. 18 Table of Contents We may decide in the future to sell one or more of our hotels. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any hotel property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a hotel property. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a hotel property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. In acquiring a hotel property, we may agree to lock-out provisions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as the amount of cash available for distributions to shareholders. Increases in our property taxes would adversely affect the amount of cash available for distributions to our shareholders. Each of our hotels is subject to real and personal property taxes. These taxes on our hotel properties may increase as tax rates change and as the properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. If property taxes increase, the amount of cash available for distributions to our shareholders may decrease. Risks related to our organization and structure Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our trustees and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interests. Under Maryland law generally, a trustee is required to perform his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Under Maryland law, trustees are presumed to have acted with this standard of care. In addition, our declaration of trust limits the liability of our trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or • active and deliberate dishonesty by the trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. Our declaration of trust obligates us to indemnify our trustees and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Our bylaws require us to indemnify each trustee or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we are obligated under our declaration of trust and bylaws to pay and advance the defense costs that may be incurred by our trustees and officers. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the current provisions in our declaration of trust and bylaws or that might exist with other companies. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax. In order for U.S. federal corporate income tax not to apply to earnings that we distribute, each year we must pay out to our shareholders in distributions at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, subject to certain adjustments and excluding any net capital gain. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed REIT taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal tax laws. Our only source of funds to make these distributions comes from distributions that we receive from our operating partnership. Accordingly, we may be required to borrow money or sell assets to make distributions 19 Table of Contents sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid U.S. federal corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in a particular year. To the extent that the terms of our revolving credit facility or other debt obligations limit our ability to distribute sufficient taxable income to comply with these distribution requirements, we could be subject to some federal corporate income tax or even fail to qualify as a REIT. Failure to qualify as a REIT, or failure to remain qualified as a REIT, would subject us to U.S. federal income tax and potentially to state and local taxes. We have been organized and we intend to continue to operate in a manner that will enable us to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2010. The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex and interpretations of the U.S. federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in operating so we can qualify, or remain qualified, as a REIT. At any time, new legislation, administrative guidance, or court decisions, in each case possibly with retroactive effect, may make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to successfully manage the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not contend that our hotel leases, interests in subsidiaries or interests in securities of other issuers will not cause a violation of the REIT requirements. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and dividends paid to our shareholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. In addition, we could, in certain circumstances, be required to pay an excise or penalty tax (which could be significant in amount) in order to utilize one or more relief provisions under the Internal Revenue Code to maintain our qualification as a REIT. We might need to borrow money or sell hotels in order to pay any such tax. Unless we are entitled to relief under certain Internal Revenue Code provisions, we could not re-elect REIT status until the fifth calendar year after the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends, which could adversely affect the value of our common shares if they are perceived as less attractive investments. The maximum tax rate applicable to income from “qualified dividends” payable to U.S. shareholders that are individuals, trusts and estates has been reduced by legislation to 15% (through 2012). Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our common shares. If our leases are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT. To qualify as a REIT, we are required to satisfy two gross income tests, pursuant to which specified percentages of our gross income must be passive income, such as rent. For the rent paid pursuant to the hotel leases with our TRS, which constitutes substantially all of our gross income, to qualify for purposes of the gross income tests, the leases must be respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes and must not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. We structure our leases so that the leases will be respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but there can be no assurance that the IRS will 20 Table of Contents agree with this characterization. If the leases are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will not be able to satisfy either of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs and likely would lose our REIT status. If our TRS fails to qualify as a “taxable REIT subsidiary” under the Internal Revenue Code, we would fail to qualify as a REIT. Rent paid by a lessee that is a “related party tenant” of ours is not qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs. We lease all of our hotels to our TRS. So long as any TRS lessee qualifies as a TRS, it will not be treated as a “related party tenant” with respect to our properties that are managed by a qualifying independent hotel management company. We believe that our TRS will qualify to be treated as a TRS for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge the status of our TRS for U.S. federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in disqualifying our TRS from treatment as a TRS, it is possible that we would fail to meet the asset tests applicable to REITs and substantially all of our income would fail to qualify for the gross income tests. If we failed to meet either the asset or gross income tests, we would likely lose our REIT qualification for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If our hotel managers do not qualify as “eligible independent contractors,” or if our hotels are not “qualified lodging facilities,” we will fail to qualify as a REIT. Each property with respect to which our TRS lessee pays rent must be a “qualified lodging facility.” A “qualified lodging facility” is a hotel, motel, or other establishment more than one-half of the dwelling units in which are used on a transient basis, including customary amenities and facilities, provided that no wagering activities are conducted at or in connection with such facility by any person who is engaged in the business of accepting wagers and who is legally authorized to engage in such business at or in connection with such facility. As of the date hereof, we believe that all of the hotels leased to our TRS are qualified lodging facilities. Although we intend to monitor future acquisitions and improvements of hotels, the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code provide only limited guidance for making determinations under the requirements for qualified lodging facilities, and there can be no assurance that these requirements will be satisfied in all cases. If our hotel managers do not qualify as “eligible independent contractors,” we will fail to qualify as a REIT. Each of the hotel management companies that enters into a management contract with our TRS must qualify as an “eligible independent contractor” under the REIT rules in order for the rent paid to us by our TRS to be qualifying income for our REIT income test requirements. Among other requirements, in order to qualify as an eligible independent contractor a hotel manager must not own more than 35% of our outstanding shares (by value) and no person or group of persons can own more than 35% of our outstanding shares and the ownership interests of the hotel manager, taking into account only owners of more than 5% of our shares and, with respect to ownership interests in such hotel managers that are publicly traded, only holders of more than 5% of such ownership interests. Complex ownership attribution rules apply for purposes of these 35% thresholds. Although we monitor ownership of our shares by our hotel managers and their owners, and certain provisions of our declaration of trust are designed to prevent ownership of our shares in violation of these rules, there can be no assurance that these ownership levels will not be exceeded. Provisions of our declaration of trust may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of our company, even if our shareholders believe the change of control is in their best interest. Common share and preferred share ownership limits Our declaration of trust provides that, unless an exemption were to be granted by our board of trustees, no person may directly or indirectly own more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the aggregate outstanding common shares or more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the aggregate preferred shares of each class or series outstanding from time-to-time. These ownership limitations, as well as certain other limits intended to protect our REIT qualification, may prevent an acquisition of control of our company by a third party without our board of trustees’ approval, even if our shareholders believe the change of control is in their interest. 21 Table of Contents Authority to issue shares of beneficial interest Our declaration of trust authorizes our board of trustees to issue up to 400,000,000 common shares and up to 100,000,000 preferred shares without approval of our shareholders. Issuances of additional shares may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company, including transactions at a premium over the market price of our shares, even if shareholders believe that a change of control is in their interest. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control Certain provisions of Maryland law may have the effect of deterring a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common shares with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common shares. The “business combination” provisions of Maryland law generally prohibit certain business combinations (including a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities) between us and an “interested shareholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of our then outstanding voting shares or an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our then outstanding voting shares) or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the shareholder becomes an interested shareholder. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested shareholder generally must be recommended by our board of trustees and approved by the affirmative vote of at least (1) 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of our outstanding voting shares; and (2) two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of the outstanding voting shares of our company other than shares held by the interested shareholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested shareholder. These super-majority vote requirements do not apply if our common shareholders receive a minimum price, as defined under Maryland law, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for its shares. These provisions of Maryland law do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by a board of trustees prior to the time that the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder. Pursuant to the statute, our board of trustees has by resolution exempted business combinations between us and any other person, provided that such business combination is first approved by our board of trustees (including a majority of our trustees who are not affiliates or associates of such person). Further, under our declaration of trust, a trustee may be removed at any time, but only with cause, at a meeting of the shareholders by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than two-thirds of the shares then outstanding and entitled to vote generally in the election of trustees. The “control share” provisions of Maryland law provide that “control shares” of a Maryland corporation (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the shareholder (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), entitle the shareholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing trustees) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding votes entitled to be cast by the acquirer of control shares, our officers and our personnel who are also our trustees. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the control share acquisition statute any and all acquisitions by any person of our common shares. There can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. The “unsolicited takeover” provisions of Maryland law permit our board of trustees, without shareholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our declaration of trust or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which (for example, a classified board) we do not yet have. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us under the circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common shares with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price. 22 Table of Contents Our ownership limitations may restrict or prevent you from engaging in certain transfers of our common shares. In order to maintain our REIT qualification, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the U.S. federal income tax laws to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year following our first year. To preserve our REIT qualification, our declaration of trust contains a common share ownership limit and a preferred share ownership limit and other related limitations on transfer. Generally, any common shares owned by affiliated owners will be added together for purposes of the common share ownership limit, and any shares of a given class or series of preferred shares owned by affiliated owners will be added together for purposes of the preferred share ownership limit. If anyone transfers shares in a way that would violate the common share ownership limit or the preferred share ownership limit, or prevent us from continuing to qualify as a REIT under the U.S. federal income tax laws, those shares instead will be transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary and will be either redeemed by us or sold to a person whose ownership of the shares will not violate the common share ownership limit or the preferred share ownership limit. If this transfer to a trust fails to prevent such a violation or our continued qualification as a REIT, then the initial intended transfer shall be null and void from the outset. The intended transferee of those shares will be deemed never to have owned the shares. Anyone who acquires shares in violation of the common share ownership limit or the preferred share ownership limit or the other restrictions on transfer in our declaration of trust bears the risk of suffering a financial loss when the shares are redeemed or sold if the market price of our shares falls between the date of purchase and the date of redemption or sale. Our ownership of our TRS will be limited and our transactions with our TRS will cause us to be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain income or deductions if those transactions are not conducted on arm’s-length terms. A REIT may own up to 100% of the equity interest of an entity that is a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes if the entity is a TRS. A TRS may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT, including gross operating income from hotel operations pursuant to hotel management agreements. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 25% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. Our TRS will pay U.S. federal income tax and applicable foreign, state and local income tax on its taxable income, and its after-tax net income will be available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed by such TRS to us. We believe that the aggregate value of the stock and securities of our TRS has been and will be less than 25% of the value of our total assets (including our TRS stock and securities). Furthermore, we monitor the value of our investments in our TRS for the purpose of ensuring compliance with TRS ownership limitations. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 25% limitation discussed above. Rents paid to us by our TRS may not be based on net income or profits to qualify as “rents from real property.” We receive “percentage rents” calculated based on gross revenues of the hotels subject to leases to our TRS – not on net income or profits. We believe our rents reflect normal business practices in this regard but there can be no assurance the IRS will agree. If the IRS determines that the rents charged under our leases with our TRS are excessive, their deductibility may be challenged at the TRS level, and we could be subject to a 100% excise tax on “re-determined rent” or “re-determined deductions” to the extent rents exceed an arm’s length amount. We believe our rents reflect normal business practices in this regard but there can be no assurance the IRS will agree. 23 Table of Contents There have been recent reports that the IRS is conducting at least one transfer pricing audit focusing on the rental payments made by a TRS to a REIT on an intercompany lease of a hotel and that the IRS has proposed adjustments of some sort in that audit. The proposed adjustments are reportedly on appeal within the IRS administrative process. We may in the future choose to pay dividends in our common shares instead of cash, in which case shareholders may be required to pay income taxes in excess of the cash dividends they receive. Although we have no current intention to do so, we may, in the future, distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash and common shares at the election of each shareholder. Under Revenue Procedure 2010-12, up to 90% of any such taxable dividend paid with respect to our 2011 taxable year could be payable in our shares. Taxable shareholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, or E&P, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, shareholders may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. If a U.S. shareholder sells the common shares that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our shares at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to certain non-U.S. shareholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. federal income tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in common shares. In addition, if a significant number of our shareholders determine to sell common shares in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our common shares. Further, while Revenue Procedure 2010-12 applies only to taxable dividends payable by us in cash or shares with respect to our 2011 taxable year, it is unclear whether and to what extent we will be able to pay taxable dividends in cash and common shares in later years. Moreover, various aspects of such a taxable cash/share dividend are uncertain and have not yet been addressed by the IRS. No assurance can be given that the IRS will not impose additional requirements in the future with respect to taxable cash/share dividends, including on a retroactive basis, or assert that the requirements for such taxable cash/share dividends have not been met. U.S. federal income tax provisions applicable to REITs may restrict our business decisions regarding the potential sale of a hotel. The U.S. federal income tax provisions applicable to REITs provide that any gain realized by a REIT on the sale of property held as inventory or other property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a “prohibited transaction” that is subject to a 100% excise tax. Under existing law, whether property, including hotels, is held as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is a question of fact that depends upon all of the facts and circumstances with respect to the particular transaction. We intend to hold our hotels for investment with a view to long-term appreciation, to engage in the business of acquiring and owning hotels and to make occasional sales of hotels consistent with our investment objectives. There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS might not contend that one or more of these sales are subject to the 100% excise tax. Moreover, the potential application of this penalty tax could deter us from selling one or more hotels even though it otherwise would be in the best interests of us and shareholders for us to do so. There is a statutory safe harbor available for a limited number of sales in a single taxable year of properties that have been owned by a REIT for at least two years, but that safe harbor likely would not apply to all sales transactions that we might otherwise consider. As a result, we may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions or on favorable terms, which may adversely affect us. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code substantially limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. Any income from a hedging transaction we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets does not constitute “gross income” for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging 24 Table of Contents transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our TRS would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in our TRS will generally not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward against future taxable income in the TRS. The ability of our board of trustees to revoke our REIT qualification without shareholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our shareholders. Our declaration of trust provides that our board of trustees may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our shareholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to be a REIT, we would become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income and would no longer be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our shareholders, which may have adverse consequences on our total return to our shareholders. The ability of our board of trustees to change our major corporate policies may not be in your interest. Our board of trustees determines our major corporate policies, including our acquisition, financing, growth, operations and distribution policies. Our board may amend or revise these and other policies from time-to-time without the vote or consent of our shareholders. If we fail to implement and maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately determine our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, our shareholders could lose confidence in our financial results, which could harm our business and the market value of our common shares. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us, after the expiration of the transition period established by rules of the SEC for newly public companies, to evaluate and report on our internal controls over financial reporting and have our independent auditors annually attest to our evaluation, as well as issue their own opinion on our internal control over financial reporting. While we intend to undertake substantial work to prepare for compliance with Section 404, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in implementing or maintaining adequate control over our financial reporting and financial processes. Furthermore, as we grow our business, our internal controls will become more complex, and we will require significantly more resources to ensure our internal controls remain effective. If we or our independent auditors discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market value of our common shares. Additionally, the existence of any material weakness or significant deficiency would require management to devote significant time and incur significant expense to remediate any such material weaknesses or significant deficiencies and management may not be able to remediate any such material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in a timely manner. Risks related to share ownership We have not established a minimum distribution payment level, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations to make distributions to our shareholders at any time in the future. We are generally required to distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our taxable income (excluding net capital gains) each year for us to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, which requirement we currently intend to satisfy. To the extent we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In 2010, we declared two quarterly dividends each in the amount of $0.20 per common share, of which the first was paid on October 15, 2010 to each shareholder of record on September 30, 2010 and the second was paid on January 14, 2011 to each shareholder of record on December 31, 2010. No assurances can be made that we will continue to generate sufficient income to distribute similar aggregate amounts in the future. 25 Table of Contents Subject to maintaining our REIT qualification, we intend to continue to make regular quarterly distributions to our shareholders. Our board of trustees has the sole discretion to determine the timing, form and amount of any distributions to our shareholders. Our board of trustees will make determinations regarding distributions based upon, among other factors, our historical and projected results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity, maintenance of our REIT qualification and other tax considerations, capital expenditure and other expense obligations, debt covenants, contractual prohibitions or other limitations and applicable law and such other matters as our board of trustees may deem relevant from time-to-time. The per share amount of future distributions also will be affected by the number of common and preferred shares that are outstanding from time-to-time. Among the factors that could impair our ability to make distributions to our shareholders are: • our inability to invest our available cash; • our inability to realize attractive risk-adjusted returns on our investments; • unanticipated expenses that reduce our cash flow or non-cash earnings; • defaults in our investment portfolio or decreases in the value of the underlying assets; and • the fact that anticipated operating expense levels may not prove accurate, as actual results may vary from estimates. As a result, no assurance can be given that the level of any distributions we make to our shareholders in the future will achieve a market yield or increase or even be maintained over time, any of which could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common shares. In addition, distributions that we make to our shareholders will generally be taxable to our shareholders as ordinary income. However, a portion of our distributions may be designated by us as long-term capital gains to the extent that they are attributable to capital gain income recognized by us or may constitute a return of capital to the extent that they exceed our E&P as determined for tax purposes. A return of capital is not taxable, but has the effect of reducing the basis of a shareholder’s investment in our common shares. Our common shares have a limited trading history and are thinly traded, which may limit your ability to liquidate your investment. Our common shares have traded on the NYSE since our IPO was completed in January 2010. During this period, the shares have traded in relatively small average daily volumes. If our common shares continue to be thinly traded, it may enhance volatility in the share price and make it difficult for investors to buy or sell shares in the public market without materially affecting the sales price. Further, investors seeking to buy or sell a large quantity of our shares in the public market may be unable to do so within one or more trading days. We cannot assure you that a more robust trading market will develop or be sustained. If limited trading in our common shares continues, it may be difficult for you to sell your shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. The market price of our equity securities may vary substantially, which may cause the value of your investment to fluctuate. The trading prices of equity securities issued by REITs have historically been affected by changes in market interest rates. One of the factors that may influence the price of our shares in public trading markets is the annual yield from distributions on our common or preferred shares as compared to yields on other financial instruments. An increase in market interest rates, or a decrease in our distributions to shareholders, may lead prospective purchasers of our shares to demand a higher annual yield, which could reduce the market price of our equity securities. 26 Table of Contents Other factors that could affect the market price of our equity securities include the following: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations; • changes in market valuations of companies in the hotel or real estate industries; • changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts; • fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; • issuances of common shares or other securities in the future; • the addition or departure of key personnel; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances; and • unforeseen events beyond our control, such as terrorist attacks, travel related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics, such as H1N1 influenza (swine flu), avian bird flu and SARS, political instability, regional hostilities, increases in fuel prices, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities, travel related accidents and unusual weather patterns, including natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tsunamis or earthquakes. Future issuances of debt or equity securities ranking senior to our common shares may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. If we decide to issue debt or equity securities in the future ranking senior to our common shares, it is possible that these securities will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common shares and may result in dilution to owners of our common shares. We and, indirectly, our shareholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in the future will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of any future issuances. Thus holders of our common shares will bear the risk of future issuances reducing the market price of our common shares, lowering the per share amount of distributions we may pay and diluting the value of their share holdings in us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 