Item 1A. Risk Factors — “We are subject to increasing governmental regulations and environmental risks that may cause us to incur substantial cost” and “Pipeline integrity programs and repairs may impose significant costs and liabilities on us.” Management believes that our operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations and that the existence and enforcement of such laws and regulations have no more restrictive effect on our method of operations than on other similar companies in the energy industry. We have internal procedures and policies that we believe help to ensure that our operations are conducted in substantial regulatory compliance. Governmental regulations applicable to our operations include those relating to environmental matters, exploration and production activities, interstate pipeline and FERC regulations, natural gas gathering pipelines, natural gas sales, and pipeline safety. Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to various increasingly stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the discharge of materials into, and the protection of, the environment and imposing liability for 12 Table of Contents pollution. We have made and will continue to make expenditures in our efforts to comply with these requirements. We do not believe that we have, to date, expended material amounts in connection with such activities or that compliance with these requirements will have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Although such requirements do have a substantial impact on the oil and gas industry, to date, we do not believe they have affected us to any greater or lesser extent than other companies in the industry. Due to the size of our operations, significant new environmental regulation could have a disproportionate adverse effect on our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or newly adopted laws or regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders limiting or enjoining future operations or imposing additional compliance requirements or operational limitation on such operations. See Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors — “We are subject to increasing governmental regulations and environmental risks that may cause us to incur substantial costs”; “We may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental and operational safety regulations or an accidental release of hazardous substances into the environment”; “We may face unanticipated water and other waste disposal costs”; and “Recent and future environmental laws and regulations may significantly limit, and increase the cost of, our exploration, production and transportation operations.” Production Federal, state and local regulations apply to our exploration and production activities and impose permitting, bonding and reporting requirements. Most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which we operate also regulate the location and method of drilling and casing of wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled, the plugging and abandoning of wells; and/or notice to surface owners and other third parties. Some state laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and natural gas properties. Some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while others rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. In some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and reduce our interest in the unitized properties. In addition, some state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells. These laws generally prohibit venting or flaring of gas and impose requirements regarding the ratability of production. Moreover, some states impose a production or severance tax on the production and sale of oil, gas and gas liquids within its jurisdiction. The Cherokee Basin has been an active producing region for a number of years. Many of our properties had abandoned oil and conventional gas wells on them at the time the current lease was entered. A number of these wells remain unplugged or were improperly plugged by a prior landowner or operator. Many of the former operators of these wells have ceased operations and cannot be located or do not have the financial resources to plug these wells. We believe that we are not responsible for plugging an abandoned well on one of our leases, unless we have used, attempted to use or invaded the abandoned well bore in our operations on the land or have otherwise agreed to assume responsibility for plugging the wells. While the Kansas Corporation Commission’s (“KCC”) current interpretation of Kansas law is consistent with our position, it could change in the future. Interstate Pipelines and FERC Regulation Certain of our operations are subject to regulation by FERC. FERC regulates the terms, conditions and rates for interstate transportation and storage services, as well as various other matters relating to pipeline and storage services, operations, and construction. Our KPC Pipeline is an interstate natural gas pipeline system that is subject to FERC’s regulatory requirements. See Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors — “The KPC Pipeline is subject to regulation by FERC, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to establish transportation rates that would allow us to recover the full cost of operating the KPC pipeline, plus a reasonable return, which may affect our business and results of operations.” FERC regulates interstate natural gas pipelines pursuant to the NGA, NGPA and The Energy Policy Act of 2005 (“EP Act 2005”). FERC regulation affects the price and terms for access to natural gas pipeline 13 Table of Contents transportation. FERC is continually proposing and implementing new rules and regulations applicable to providers of interstate transportation and storage services. Under certain circumstances, these initiatives also may affect the intrastate transportation of natural gas. In October 2010, FERC issued a Notice of Inquiry seeking comment on whether and how holders of firm capacity on intrastate natural gas pipelines providing interstate transportation and storage services should be permitted to allow others to make use of their firm interstate capacity. We cannot predict the ultimate impact of these regulatory changes to our operations. We do not believe that we will be affected by any such FERC action materially differently than other industry participants with which we compete. Maintaining compliance with FERC requirements on a continuing basis requires us to incur various expenses. Additional compliance expenses could be incurred if new or amended laws or regulations are enacted or existing laws or regulations are reinterpreted. In recent years, FERC has initiated various audits of pipeline compliance activities and commenced investigations of the rates charged by certain pipelines. Failure to comply with FERC regulations could subject us to penalties and fines. See Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors — “We could be subject to penalties and fines if we fail to comply with FERC regulations.” Our natural gas gathering pipeline facilities are generally exempt from FERC’s jurisdiction and regulation pursuant to Section 1(b) of the NGA, which exempts pipeline facilities that perform primarily a gathering function, rather than a transportation function. However, if FERC were to determine that the facilities perform primarily a transmission function, rather than a gathering function, these facilities may become subject to regulation as interstate natural gas pipeline facilities and we may be subject to fines and additional costs and regulatory burdens that would substantially increase our operating costs and would adversely affect our profitability. See Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors — “A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our gathering assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our gathering assets, which may indirectly cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase” State Regulation of Gathering Pipelines Our gathering pipeline operations are currently limited to the States of Kansas, Oklahoma, New York, and West Virginia. State regulation of gathering facilities generally includes various permitting, safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take requirements, and complaint-based rate regulation. We are licensed as an operator of a natural gas gathering system with the KCC and are required to file periodic information reports with it. We are not required to be licensed as an operator or to file reports in Oklahoma, New York or West Virginia. On those portions of our gathering system that are open to third-party producers, the producers have the ability to file complaints challenging our gathering rates, terms of services and practices. We have contracts with all of the third-party producers for which we gather gas and are not aware of any complaints being filed. Our fees, terms and practices must be just, reasonable, not unjustly discriminatory and not unduly preferential. If the KCC or the Oklahoma Corporation Commission (“OCC”), as applicable, were to determine that the rates charged to a complainant did not meet this standard, the KCC or the OCC, as applicable, would have the ability to adjust our rates with respect to the wells subject to the complaint. We are not aware of any instance in which either the KCC or the OCC has made such a determination in the past. These regulatory burdens may affect profitability, and management is unable to predict the future cost or impact of complying with such regulations. While state regulation of pipeline transportation does not materially affect our operations, we do own several small, discrete delivery laterals in Kansas that are subject to a limited jurisdiction certificate issued by the KCC. As with FERC regulation described above, state regulation of pipeline transportation may influence certain aspects of our business and the market price for our products. Sales of Natural Gas The price at which we buy and sell natural gas currently is not subject to federal regulation or, for the most part, state regulation. Our sales of natural gas are affected by the availability, terms and cost of pipeline 14 Table of Contents transportation. As noted above, the price and terms of access to pipeline transportation are subject to extensive regulation. FERC is continually proposing and implementing new rules and regulations affecting those segments of the natural gas industry, most notably interstate natural gas transmission companies that remain subject to FERC’s jurisdiction. These initiatives may affect the intrastate transportation of natural gas under certain circumstances. The stated purpose of many of these regulatory changes is to promote competition among the various sectors of the natural gas industry. We cannot predict the ultimate impact of these regulatory changes to our natural gas marketing operations. Interstate Pipeline Safety Our pipelines are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation (the “DOT”) under the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended, or the NGPSA, pursuant to which the DOT has established requirements relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of pipeline facilities. We believe that our pipeline operations are in substantial compliance with applicable NGPSA requirements; however, if new or amended laws and regulations are enacted or existing laws and regulations are reinterpreted, future compliance with the NGPSA could result in increased costs. Employees As of December 31, 2010, we had 231 field employees in offices located in Kansas, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia. We have 69 executive and administrative personnel located at our headquarters in Oklahoma City. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement and management considers its relations with employees to be satisfactory. Where To Find Additional Information Additional information about us can be found on our website at www.pstr.com. Information on our website is not part of this document. We also provide free of charge on our website our filings with the SEC, including our annual reports, quarterly reports and current reports, along with any amendments thereto, as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished it to, the SEC. You may also find information related to our corporate governance, board committees and company code of ethics at our website. Among the information you can find there is the following: • Audit Committee Charter; • Compensation Committee Charter; • Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter; and • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. 15 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Energy prices are very volatile, and if commodity prices remain low or decline, our revenues, profitability and cash flows will be adversely affected. A sustained or further decline in oil and gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to fund our capital expenditures and meet our financial commitments. The prices we receive for our oil and gas production heavily influence our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil and gas are commodities; therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil and gas have been volatile and will likely continue to be volatile in the future. For example, during 2010, the near month NYMEX natural gas futures price ranged from a high of $6.01 per Mmbtu to a low of $3.29 per Mmbtu. As of March 1, 2011, the near month NYMEX natural gas futures price was 3.87 per Mmbtu. Approximately 98% of our production is natural gas. The prices that we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on a variety of factors that are beyond our control, such as: • domestic and foreign supply of and demand for oil and gas; • price and level of foreign imports of oil and gas; • level of consumer product demand; • weather conditions; • overall domestic and global economic conditions; • political and economic conditions in oil and gas producing countries, including embargoes and continued hostilities in the Middle East and other sustained military campaigns, acts of terrorism or sabotage; • actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; • the impact of the U.S. dollar exchange rates on oil and gas prices; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; • the impact of energy conservation efforts; • the costs, proximity and capacity of gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Our revenue, profitability and cash flow depend upon the prices and demand for oil and gas, and a drop in prices will significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. In particular, declines in commodity prices will: • reduce the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures, including for the drilling of wells and the construction of infrastructure to transport the gas it produces; • negatively impact the value of our reserves because declines in oil and gas prices would reduce the amount of oil and gas we can produce economically; • reduce the drilling and production activity of our third-party customers and increase the rate at which our customers shut in wells; • potentially reduce gas available for transport on the KPC Pipeline; and • limit our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. 16 Table of Contents We may be required to write-down the carrying value of our assets. Lower oil and gas prices may not only decrease our revenues, profitability and cash flows, but also reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically. This may result in our having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated reserves. Substantial decreases in oil and gas prices have had and may continue to render a significant number of our planned exploration and development projects uneconomic. If this occurs, or if our estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change or drilling results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our oil or gas properties, pipelines or other long-lived assets for impairments. We will be required to perform impairment tests on our assets periodically and whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant a review of our assets. To the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of our assets, the carrying value may not be recoverable and may therefore, require a write-down of such carrying value. For example, we recognized a ceiling test impairment of $102.9 million related to our oil and gas properties during the first quarter of 2009. We also recorded impairment charges of $53.6 million on our interstate pipeline and related contract-based intangible assets as well as $112.2 million on our gathering system assets in the fourth quarter of 2009. The impairment charge on our interstate pipeline and contract-based intangible assets was due to the loss of a significant customer during the fourth quarter of 2009. Our gathering system impairment resulted from a reduction in projected future gathering revenues anticipated with our Cherokee Basin production. The reduction in future gathering revenues was partially the result of limits imposed by our former credit facilities on our capital expenditures and consequently on our ability to further develop acreage in the Cherokee Basin, the geographic region served by our gathering system. This reduced the future projected revenues of the gathering system at that time. We may incur further impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period incurred and result in a reduction in our credit facility borrowing base. We have reduced debt but we remain highly leveraged. At December 31, 2010, we had $254.8 million of contractual commitments outstanding, consisting of debt service requirements and non-cancelable operating lease commitments. Of such amount, $187.0 million was outstanding under our $350 million secured borrowing base revolving credit facility with a current borrowing base of $225 million, which borrowing base may not be increased without the consent of all lenders under the facility. The borrowing base may be reduced in connection with future borrowing base redeterminations, the first of which will be effective on July 31, 2011. There has been a significant decline in oil and gas prices since the borrowing base was last determined. As a result, we currently expect the borrowing base to be reduced in connection with the redetermination as of July 31, 2011. Any reduction in the borrowing base will reduce our available liquidity, and, if the reduction results in the outstanding amount under the facility exceeding the borrowing base, we will be required to repay the deficiency within 30 days or in six monthly installments thereafter, at our election. Our ability to borrow funds will depend upon a number of factors, including the condition of the financial markets. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may create a greater risk of loss to stockholders than if we did not borrow. The risk of loss in such circumstances is increased because we would be obligated to meet fixed payment obligations on specified dates regardless of our cash flow. If we do not make our debt service payments when due, our lenders may foreclose on assets securing such debt. Our future level of debt could have important consequences, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing, if necessary, for drilling, expansion, working capital and other business needs may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • a substantial decrease in our revenues as a result of lower oil and gas prices, decreased production or other factors could make it difficult for us to pay our liabilities. Any failure by us to meet these obligations could result in litigation, non-performance by contract counterparties or bankruptcy; 17 Table of Contents • our funds available for operations and future business opportunities will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make principal or interest payments on our debt; • we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to affect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms or at all. Our credit agreements have substantial restrictions and financial covenants that restrict our business and financing activities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit agreements restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs and to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants in the future is uncertain and will be affected by our results of operations and financial conditions and events or circumstances beyond our control. If market or other economic conditions do not improve, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we violate any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our credit agreements, our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, the interest rates on our credit agreements may increase and the lenders’ commitment, if any, to make further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments in which event we may be forced to file for bankruptcy. For a description of our credit facilities, please read Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Credit Agreements” and Note 10 in Part II, Item 8. An increase in market interest rates will cause our debt service obligations to increase. Borrowings under our credit agreements bear interest at floating rates. The rates are subject to adjustment based on fluctuations in market interest rates. An increase in the interest rates associated with our floating-rate debt would increase our debt service costs and affect our results of operations and cash flow. In addition, an increase in our interest expense could adversely affect our future ability to obtain financing or materially increase the cost of any additional financing. We may be unable to pass through all of our costs and expenses for gathering and compression to royalty owners under our gas leases, which would reduce our net income and cash flows. We incur costs and expenses for gathering, dehydration, treating and compression of the gas that we produce. The terms of some of our existing gas leases and other development rights may not, and the terms of some of the gas leases and other development rights that we may acquire in the future may not, allow us to charge the full amount of these costs and expenses to the royalty owners under the leases or other agreements. On August 6, 2007, certain mineral interest owners filed a putative class action lawsuit against our wholly owned subsidiary Quest Cherokee, that, among other things, alleges Quest Cherokee improperly charged certain expenses to the mineral and/or overriding royalty interest owners under leases covering the acres leased by Quest Cherokee in Kansas. We will be responsible for any judgments or settlements with respect to this litigation. Please see Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” for a discussion of this litigation. To the extent that we are unable to charge and recover the full amount of these costs and expenses from our royalty owners, our net income and cash flows will be reduced. 18 Table of Contents We are exposed to trade credit risk in the ordinary course of our business activities. We are exposed to risks of loss in the event of nonperformance by our customers and by counterparties to our derivative contracts. Some of our customers and counterparties may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. Even if our credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, we may experience financial losses in our dealings with other parties. Any increase in the nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers and/or counterparties could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Unless we replace the reserves that we produce, our existing reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our revenues, profitability and cash flows. Producing oil and gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow depend on our success in developing and exploiting our reserves efficiently and finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves economically. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs or production from our existing wells could decline at a faster rate than we have estimated, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Factors that may hinder our ability to acquire additional reserves include competition, access to capital, prevailing gas prices and attractiveness of properties for sale. Our estimated reserves are based on assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. It is not possible to measure underground accumulations of oil and gas in an exact way. Reserve estimation is a subjective process that involves estimating volumes to be recovered from underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be directly measured and assumptions concerning future oil and gas prices, production levels and operating and development costs. In estimating our level of oil and gas reserves, we and our independent reserve engineers make certain assumptions that may prove to be incorrect, including assumptions relating to: • a constant level of future oil and gas prices; • geological conditions; • production levels; • capital expenditures; • operating and development costs; • the effects of governmental regulations and taxation; and • availability of funds. If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of oil and gas attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and our estimates of the future net cash flows from our reserves could change significantly. Additionally, there recently has been increased debate and disagreement over the classification of reserves, with particular focus on proved undeveloped reserves. Changing interpretations of the classification standards or disagreements with our interpretations could cause us to write-down reserves. Please read “— Future price declines may result in a write-down of our asset carrying values.” Our standardized measure is calculated using unhedged oil and gas prices and is determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. The present value of future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the market value of our estimated proved reserves. The estimated discounted future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves is based on twelve month 19 Table of Contents average prices and current costs in effect on the day of estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from our oil and gas properties also will be affected by factors such as: • the actual prices we receive for oil and gas; • our actual operating costs in producing oil and gas; • the amount and timing of actual production; • the amount and timing of our capital expenditures; • supply of and demand for oil and gas; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows in compliance with the FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic 932, Extractive Activities — Oil and Gas, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and gas industry in general. Drilling for and producing oil and gas is a costly and high-risk activity with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors, as well as the market price of oil and gas, can adversely affect the economics of a well. Furthermore, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: • high costs, shortages or delivery delays of drilling rigs, equipment, labor or other services; • adverse weather conditions; • difficulty disposing of water produced as part of the coal bed methane production process; • equipment failures or accidents; • title problems; • pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; • compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; • environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; • lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools; • loss of drilling fluid circulation; • unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; • increased risk of wellbore instability due to horizontal drilling; • unusual or unexpected geological formations; • natural disasters, such as fires and floods; • blowouts, surface craterings and explosions; and • uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids. A productive well may become uneconomic in the event water or other deleterious substances are encountered, which impair or prevent the production of oil or gas from the well. In addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is contaminated with water or other deleterious substances. We may drill 20 Table of Contents wells that are unproductive or, although productive, do not produce oil or gas in economic quantities. Unsuccessful drilling activities could result in higher costs without any corresponding revenues. Furthermore, a successful completion of a well does not ensure a profitable return on the investment. The revenues of our interstate pipeline business are generated under contracts that must be renegotiated periodically. In the past, substantially all of the revenues from the KPC Pipeline were generated under two firm capacity transportation contracts with Kansas Gas Service and one firm capacity transportation contract with Missouri Gas Energy. The contracts with KGS generated 59% and 58% of total revenues from the KPC Pipeline for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and the contract with MGE generated 32% and 38% of total revenues from the KPC Pipeline for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The MGE firm contract, which was for 46,000 Dth/d, expired on October 31, 2009, and was not renegotiated or renewed. The loss of this contract resulted in a non-cash impairment charge related to the KPC Pipeline recorded in 2009. The remaining KGS contracts generated 76% of total KPC Pipeline revenue in 2010 and volume steps down in future years. If we are unable to extend or replace our firm capacity transportation contracts when they expire or renegotiate them on terms as favorable as the existing contracts, we could suffer a material reduction in revenues, earnings and cash flows. In particular, our ability to extend and replace contracts could be adversely affected by factors we cannot control, including: • competition by other pipelines, including the change in rates or upstream supply of existing pipeline competitors, as well as the proposed construction by other companies of additional pipeline capacity in markets served by our interstate pipeline; • changes in state regulation of local distribution companies, which may cause them to negotiate short-term contracts or turn back their capacity when their contracts expire; • reduced demand and market conditions in the areas we serve; • the availability of alternative energy sources or natural gas supply points; and • regulatory actions. Our hedging activities could result in financial losses or reduce our income. We have and may in the future enter into additional derivative arrangements for a significant portion of our production that could result in both realized and unrealized losses on our derivative financial instruments. The extent of our commodity price exposure is related largely to the scope of our hedging activities. The prices at which we enter into derivative financial instruments covering our production in the future will be dependent upon commodity prices at the time we enter into these transactions, which may be substantially lower than current prices or the prices under our existing derivative financial instruments. Accordingly, our commodity price risk management strategy will not protect us from significant and sustained declines in oil and gas prices received for our future production. Conversely, our commodity price risk management strategy may limit our ability to realize cash flow from commodity price increases. Furthermore, we have a policy that requires, and our credit facilities mandate, that those derivative transactions relate to only a portion of our expected production volumes. As a result, we have direct commodity price exposure on the portion of our production volumes that is not covered by a derivative financial instrument. Our actual future production may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into hedging transactions for such period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the nominal amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial diminution of our liquidity. As a result of these factors, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain 21 Table of Contents circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, our hedging activities are subject to the following risks: • a counterparty may not perform its obligation under the applicable derivative instrument; • there may be a change in the expected differential between the underlying commodity price in the derivative instrument and the actual price received; and • the steps we take to monitor our derivative financial instruments may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures. Because of our lack of asset and geographic diversification, adverse developments in our operating areas would adversely affect our results of operations. Substantially all of our assets are located in the Cherokee Basin. As a result, our business is disproportionately exposed to adverse developments affecting this region. Potential adverse developments could result from, among other things, changes in governmental regulation, capacity constraints with respect to the pipelines connected to our wells, curtailment of production, natural disasters or adverse weather conditions in or affecting these regions. Due to our lack of diversification in asset type and location, an adverse development in our business or this operating area would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets and operating areas. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete effectively with larger companies, which may adversely affect our results of operations. The oil and gas industry is intensely competitive with respect to acquiring prospects and productive properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing equipment and trained personnel, and we compete with other companies that have greater resources. Many of our competitors are major and large independent oil and natural gas companies, and they not only drill for and produce oil and gas, but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. Our larger competitors also possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than our resources. These companies may be able to pay more for oil and gas properties and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, there is substantial competition for investment capital in the oil and gas industry. These larger companies may have a greater ability to continue drilling activities during periods of low oil and gas prices and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. Our inability to compete effectively with larger companies could have a material impact on our business activities, results of operations and financial condition. With respect to the KPC Pipeline, we compete with other interstate and intrastate pipelines in the transportation of gas for transportation customers primarily on the basis of transportation rates, access to competitively priced supplies of gas, markets served by the pipeline, and the quality and reliability of transportation services. Major competitors include Southern Star Central Gas Pipeline, Inc., Kinder Morgan Interstate Gas Transmission’s Pony Express Pipeline and Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Company in the Kansas City market and Southern Star Central Gas Pipeline, Inc., Atmos Energy Corporation and Mid-Continent Market Center in the Wichita market. Natural gas also competes with other forms of energy available to our customers, including electricity, coal, hydroelectric power, nuclear power and fuel oil. The impact of competition could be significantly increased as a result of factors that have the effect of significantly decreasing demand for natural gas in the markets served by our pipelines, such as competing or alternative forms of energy, adverse economic conditions, weather, higher fuel costs, and taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that directly or indirectly increase the cost or limit the use of natural gas. 22 Table of Contents Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. There are a variety of risks inherent in our operations that may generate liabilities, including contingent liabilities, and financial losses to us, such as: • damage to wells, pipelines, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; • inadvertent damage from construction, farm and utility equipment; • leaks of gas or oil spills as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities; • fires and explosions; and • other hazards that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations. Any of these or other similar occurrences could result in the disruption of our operations, substantial repair costs, personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial revenue losses. We are not fully insured against all risks, including drilling and completion risks that are generally not recoverable from third parties or insurance. We do not have property insurance on any of our underground pipeline systems or wellheads that would cover damage to the pipelines. Pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could, therefore, occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Moreover, insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable costs and on commercially reasonable terms. Premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies have increased substantially in recent years. Due to these cost increases, we may not be able to obtain the levels or types of insurance we would otherwise have obtained, and the insurance coverage we do obtain may contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or cover all potential losses. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our undeveloped acreage is subject to leases or other agreements that may expire in the near future. In the Cherokee Basin, as of December 31, 2010, we held leases on approximately 468,878 net acres, of which 79,087 net acres are not currently held by production. Unless we establish commercial production on the properties subject to these leases during their term, these leases will expire. Leases covering approximately 16,117 net acres are scheduled to expire before December 31, 2011. If these leases expire and are not renewed, we will lose the right to develop the related properties. Our identified drilling location inventories will be developed over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling, resulting in temporarily lower cash from operations, which may impact our results of operations. Our management has specifically identified drilling locations for our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. We have identified, based on reserves at December 31, 2010, approximately 128 gross proved undeveloped drilling locations in the Cherokee Basin. These identified drilling locations represent a significant part of our future long-term development drilling program. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, gas prices, costs and drilling results. The assignment of proved reserves to these locations is based on the assumptions regarding gas prices in our December 31, 2010, reserve report. Our final determination of whether to drill any of these drilling locations will be dependent upon the factors described above, our 23 Table of Contents financial condition, our ability to obtain additional capital as well as, to some degree, the results of our drilling activities with respect to our proved drilling locations. Because of these uncertainties, it is possible that not all of the numerous drilling locations identified will be drilled within the timeframe specified in the reserve report or will ever be drilled, and we do not know if we will be able to produce gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may incur losses as a result of title deficiencies in the properties in which we invest. If an examination of the title history of a property reveals that an oil or gas lease or other developed rights has been purchased in error from a person who is not the owner of the mineral interest desired, our interest would substantially decline in value. In such an instance, the amount paid for such lease or leases or other developed rights would be lost. It is management’s practice, in acquiring leases, or undivided interests in leases or other developed rights, not to incur the expense of retaining lawyers to examine the title to the mineral interest to be acquired. Rather, we will rely upon the judgment of lease brokers or landmen who perform the fieldwork in examining records in the appropriate governmental office before attempting to acquire a lease or other developed rights in a specific mineral interest. Prior to drilling a well, however, it is the normal practice in the industry for the person or company acting as the operator of the well to obtain a preliminary title review of the spacing unit within which the proposed well is to be drilled to ensure there are no obvious deficiencies in title to the well. Frequently, as a result of such examinations, certain curative work must be done to correct deficiencies in the marketability of the title, and such curative work entails expense. The work might include obtaining affidavits of heirship or causing an estate to be administered. Our failure to obtain these rights may adversely impact our ability in the future to increase production and reserves. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our gathering assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our gathering assets, which may indirectly cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase. Section 1(b) of the NGA exempts gas gathering facilities from FERC jurisdiction. We believe that the facilities comprising our gathering systems meet the traditional tests used by FERC to distinguish nonjurisdictional gathering facilities from jurisdictional transportation facilities, and that, as a result, our gathering systems are not subject to FERC’s jurisdiction. The distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services has been the subject of regular litigation. The classification and regulation of some of our gathering facilities may be subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts or Congress. If FERC were to determine that the facilities perform primarily a transmission function, rather than a gathering function, these facilities may become subject to regulation as interstate natural gas pipeline facilities and we may be subject to fines. We believe the expenses associated with seeking certificate authority for construction, service and abandonment, establishing rates and a tariff for these other facilities, and meeting the detailed regulatory accounting and reporting requirements, if these actions were to become necessary, would substantially increase our operating costs and would adversely affect our profitability. FERC regulation will still affect our gathering systems and the markets for our natural gas. FERC’s policies and practices across the range of its natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, ratemaking, capacity release and market center promotion, could indirectly affect our gathering systems. In recent years, FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines. However, FERC may not continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to oil and natural gas transportation capacity. Although natural gas gathering facilities are exempt from FERC jurisdiction under the NGA, such facilities are subject to rate regulation when owned by an interstate pipeline and other forms of regulation by 24 Table of Contents the state in which such facilities are located. State regulation of gathering facilities generally includes various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, open access requirements and rate regulation. Natural gas gathering may receive greater regulatory scrutiny at both the state and federal levels now that a number of interstate pipeline companies have transferred gathering facilities to unregulated affiliates. Our gathering operations are limited to the States of Kansas, Oklahoma and West Virginia. We are licensed as an operator of a natural gas gathering system with the KCC and are required to file periodic information reports with the KCC. We are not required to be licensed as an operator or to file reports in Oklahoma or West Virginia. Our gathering operations may be or become subject to safety and operational regulations relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of gathering facilities. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are considered or adopted from time to time. In the future, the industry could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes. Additionally, while gathering facilities and other non-interstate pipelines are generally exempt from FERC’s jurisdiction, FERC has adopted internet posting requirements that are applicable to certain gathering facilities and other non-interstate pipelines that deliver more than 50 million MMBtu on an annual basis. Our gathering facilities do not currently meet this size threshold and are, therefore, not currently subject to the posting requirements. Nevertheless, it is possible that we could become subject to the posting requirements in the future if, for example, the size threshold were to be lowered or the throughput on our gathering facilities were to increase. If we were to become subject to the posting requirements, we would likely incur additional compliance expenses. The KPC Pipeline is subject to regulation by FERC, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to establish transportation rates that would allow us to recover the full cost of operating the KPC pipeline, plus a reasonable return, which may affect our business and results of operations. Rates charged by interstate natural gas pipelines may generally not exceed the just and reasonable rates approved by FERC, unless they are filed as “negotiated rates” and accepted by the FERC. In addition, interstate natural gas pipelines are prohibited from granting any undue preference to any person, or maintaining any unreasonable difference in their rates, terms, or conditions of service. Consistent with these requirements, the rates, terms, and conditions of the natural gas transportation services provided by interstate pipelines are governed by tariffs approved by FERC. We own and operate the KPC Pipeline, an interstate natural gas pipeline system that is subject to these regulatory requirements. The KPC Pipeline is a 1,120-mile interstate natural gas pipeline system, which transports natural gas from Oklahoma and western Kansas to the metropolitan markets of Wichita and Kansas City. As an interstate natural gas pipeline, the KPC Pipeline is subject to FERC’s jurisdiction and the regulatory requirements summarized above. Maintaining compliance with these requirements on a continuing basis requires us to incur various expenses. Additional compliance expenses could be incurred if new or amended laws or regulations are enacted or existing laws or regulations are reinterpreted. Additionally, in recent years, FERC has initiated various audits of pipeline compliance activities and commenced investigations of the rates charged by certain pipelines. We may incur additional regulatory expenses if FERC were to commence such an audit or investigation with respect to the KPC Pipeline. The recourse rates set forth in the KPC Pipeline’s tariff could also be affected by such an investigation. Likewise, the KPC Pipeline’s customers, the state commissions that regulate certain of those customers, and other interested parties also have the right to file complaints seeking changes in the KPC Pipeline tariff, including with respect to the transportation rates stated therein. As an interstate natural gas pipeline, the KPC Pipeline is subject to regulation by FERC under the NGA. FERC’s regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines extends to such matters as: • rates and charges for natural gas transportation services; • certification and construction of new facilities; 25 Table of Contents • extension or abandonment of services and facilities; • maintenance of accounts and records; • relationships between pipelines and certain affiliates; • terms and conditions of service; • depreciation and amortization policies; • acquisition and disposition of facilities; and • initiation and discontinuation of services. The KPC Pipeline may only charge transportation rates that it has been authorized to charge by FERC. In addition, FERC prohibits natural gas companies from engaging in any undue preference or discrimination with respect to rates or terms and conditions of service. The maximum recourse rates that it may charge for transportation services are established through FERC’s ratemaking process, and those recourse rates, as well as the terms and conditions of service, are set forth in the KPC Pipeline’s FERC-approved tariff. Pipelines may also negotiate rates that are higher than the maximum recourse rates stated in their tariffs, provided such rates are filed with, and approved by, FERC. Under the NGA, existing rates may be challenged by complaint or by FERC on its own initiative, and any proposed rate increases may be challenged by protest and are subject to approval by FERC. Any successful challenge against the KPC Pipeline’s current rates or any future proposed rates could adversely affect our revenues. Generally and absent settlement, the maximum filed recourse rates for interstate pipelines are based on the cost of service plus an approved return on investment, the equity component of which may be determined through the use of a proxy group of similarly-situated companies. Other key determinants in the ratemaking process are debt costs, depreciation expense, operating costs of providing service, including an income tax allowance, and volume throughput and contractual capacity commitment assumptions. The likely future regulations under which we will operate the KPC Pipeline may change; FERC periodically revises and refines its ratemaking and other policies in the context of rulemakings, pipeline-specific adjudications, or other regulatory proceedings. FERC’s policies may also be modified when FERC decisions are subjected to judicial review. Changes to ratemaking policies may in turn affect the rates we can charge for transportation service. We could be subject to penalties and fines if we fail to comply with FERC regulations EP Act 2005 gave FERC increased oversight and penalty authority relating to market manipulation and enforcement. EP Act 2005 amended the Natural Gas Act of 1938, or NGA, to prohibit market manipulation. It also amended the NGA and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, or NGPA, to increase civil and criminal penalties for any violations of the NGA, NGPA and any rules, regulations or orders of FERC issued pursuant to those statutes to up to $1,000,000 per day, per violation. In addition, FERC has adopted regulations regarding market manipulation, which make it unlawful for any entity, in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas or transportation service subject to FERC’s jurisdiction, to defraud, make an untrue statement or omit a material fact, or engage in any practice, act or course of business that operates or would operate as a fraud. Given the complex and evolving nature of FERC regulation, we may incur significant costs related to compliance with FERC regulations. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC-administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the EP Act 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1,000,000 per day for each violation, and to order disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. FERC’s enforcement authority also includes the options of revoking or modifying existing certificate authority and referring matters to the United States Department of Justice for criminal prosecution. Since enactment of the EP Act 2005, FERC has initiated a number of enforcement proceedings and imposed penalties on various regulated entities, including other interstate natural gas pipelines. 26 Table of Contents We could be subject to regulations adopted by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act. The CFTC has proposed several regulations, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) enacted into law in July 2010, that related to the trading of derivatives, including natural gas derivatives. Given the complex and evolving nature of CFTC regulation, we may incur significant costs related to compliance with CFTC regulations, and such regulations, to the extent they apply to our activities, may affect our ability to enter into favorable transactions. We do not believe that we will be affected by any such CFTC action materially differently than other industry participants with which we compete. We may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental and operational safety regulations or an accidental release of hazardous substances into the environment. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of environmental, health and safety requirements applicable to our oil and gas exploration, development, production, gathering and transportation activities. These costs and liabilities could arise under a wide range of federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including regulations and enforcement policies, which have tended to become increasingly strict over time. Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These include, for example, (1) the federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions, (2) federal and state laws and regulations currently under development to address GHG emissions, (3) the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and comparable state laws that regulate the management of waste from our facilities, 4) the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (“CERCLA”) and comparable state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties owned or operated by us or our predecessors or locations where we or our predecessors sent waste for disposal and (5) the federal Clean Water Act and the Safe Drinking Water Act and analogous state laws and regulations that impose detailed permit requirements and strict controls regarding water quality and the discharge of pollutants into waters of the United States and state waters. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or newly adopted laws or regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders limiting or enjoining future operations or imposing additional compliance requirements or operational limitation on such operations. Certain environmental laws, including CERCLA and analogous state laws and regulations, impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances or hydrocarbons have been disposed or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances, hydrocarbons or other waste products into the environment. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in our business due to our handling of oil and natural gas, air emissions related to our operations, and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. For example, an accidental release from one of our pipelines could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may not be able to recover these costs from insurance. We may face unanticipated water and other waste disposal costs. We may be subject to regulation that restricts our ability to discharge water produced as part of our gas production operations. Productive zones frequently contain water that must be removed in order for the gas to 27 Table of Contents produce, and our ability to remove and dispose of sufficient quantities of water from the various zones will determine whether we can produce gas in commercial quantities. The produced water must be transported from the lease and injected into disposal wells. The availability of disposal wells with sufficient capacity to receive all of the water produced from our wells may affect our ability to produce our wells. Also, the cost to transport and dispose of that water, including the cost of complying with regulations concerning water disposal, may reduce our profitability. Where water produced from our projects fails to meet the quality requirements of applicable regulatory agencies, our wells produce water in excess of the applicable volumetric permit limits, the disposal wells fail to meet the requirements of all applicable regulatory agencies, or we are unable to secure access to disposal wells with sufficient capacity to accept all of the produced water, we may have to shut in wells, reduce drilling activities, or upgrade facilities for water handling or treatment. The costs to dispose of this produced water may increase if any of the following occur: • we cannot obtain future permits from applicable regulatory agencies; • water of lesser quality or requiring additional treatment is produced; • our wells produce excess water; • new laws and regulations require water to be disposed in a different manner; or • costs to transport the produced water to the disposal wells increase. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”), and comparable state statutes, regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous solid wastes. Under the auspices of the EPA, the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. In the course of our operations, we generate some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents, and waste oils, which may be regulated as hazardous wastes. The transportation of natural gas in pipelines may also generate some hazardous wastes that are subject to RCRA or comparable state law requirements. However, drilling fluids, produced waters, and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development, production and transportation of oil and gas are currently excluded from regulation as hazardous wastes under RCRA. These wastes may be regulated by EPA or state agencies as non-hazardous solid wastes. Moreover, it is possible that certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in the future. Any such change could result in an increase in our costs to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Pipeline integrity programs and repairs may impose significant costs and liabilities on us. Pursuant to the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002, the DOT has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for intrastate and interstate natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines located near high consequence areas, where a leak or rupture could do the most harm. The regulations require operators to: • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; • identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area; • improve data collection, integration and analysis; • repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and • implement preventive and mitigating actions. KPC completed all baseline assessments of the covered high consequence area integrity testing in 2009 for approximately $200,000. KPC had no expenditures in 2010 to implement pipeline integrity management program testing. KPC also incurred costs of approximately $400,000 in 2009 and $30,000 in 2010 to complete 28 Table of Contents the last year of a Stray Current Survey resulting from a 2005 DOT audit. KPC plans to conduct in-line inspections on a small portion of lines in its high consequence area in order to comply with the preventive and mitigation rule from the US Department of Transportation Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (“PHMSA”). The in-line inspections are budgeted to cost approximately $400,000. Results of this initial inspection will help define requirements for future years. As part of the KPC Integrity Plan, KPC will begin its reassessment program of high consequence areas in 2012 with 26 miles of pipeline to be reassessed in Kansas City area and 32 miles of pipeline to be reassessed in the Wichita area. These costs may be significantly higher than what KPC has estimated or previously incurred due to the following factors: • our estimate does not include the costs of repairs, remediation or preventative or mitigating actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the testing program, which could be substantial; • additional regulatory requirements that are enacted could significantly increase the amount of these expenditures; • the actual implementation costs may be materially higher than our estimates because of increased industry-wide demand for contractors and service providers and the related increase in costs; or • failure to comply with DOT regulations and any corresponding deadlines, which could subject us to penalties and fines. Recent and future environmental laws and regulations may significantly limit, and increase the cost of, our exploration, production and transportation operations. Recent and future environmental laws and regulations, including additional federal and state restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions (“GHG”) that may be passed in response to climate change concerns, may increase our capital and operating costs and also reduce the demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. The oil and gas industry is a direct source of certain GHG emissions, such as carbon dioxide and methane, and future restrictions on such emissions could impact our future operations. The EPA issued the Final Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases Rule, which requires many suppliers of fossil fuels or industrial chemicals, manufacturers of vehicles and engines, and other facilities that emit 25,000 metric tons or more of carbon dioxide equivalent per year to begin collecting GHG emissions data under a new reporting system as of January 1, 2010 with the first annual report due March 31, 2011. In November 2010, the EPA issued final regulations requiring the annual reporting of GHG emissions from qualifying facilities in the upstream oil and natural gas sector, including onshore production (Subpart W). Although the Mandatory Reporting Rule does not control greenhouse gas emission levels from any facilities, it has still caused us to incur monitoring and reporting costs for emissions that are subject to the rule. Further, the rule’s new requirements for reporting of fugitive and vented methane emissions from the oil and gas industry can be expected to increase our monitoring and reporting costs during 2011. After a series of regulatory actions finalized by EPA between December 2009 and May 2010, greenhouse gases became pollutants “subject to regulation” under the Clean Air Act’s Prevention of Significant Deterioration air quality permit program for stationary sources, and the largest of these sources have also become subject to permitting requirements under the Clean Air Act’s Title V permitting program. As a result, new major stationary sources of greenhouse gas emissions, and modifications of existing major stationary sources that significantly increase their greenhouse gas emissions will require a permit setting forth Best Available Control Technology for those emissions. EPA has, through its “Tailoring Rule,” acted to limit these permitting requirements to only the largest sources of greenhouse gas emissions initially, but these new requirements could in the future affect our operations and our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities. The U.S. Congress has also considered legislation to mandate reductions of greenhouse gas emissions, and at least one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have already taken legal measures intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. 29 Table of Contents Federal or state legislative or regulatory initiatives that regulate or restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which we conduct business could adversely affect the demand for our products and could increase the costs of our operations, including costs to operate and maintain our facilities, install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances to authorize our greenhouse gas emissions, pay any taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and/or administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. Reductions in our revenues or increases in our expenses as a result of climate control initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, the U.S. Congress is currently considering certain other legislation which, if adopted in its current proposed form, could subject companies involved in oil and natural gas exploration and production activities to substantial additional regulation. If such legislation is adopted, federal tax incentives could be curtailed, and hedging activities as well as certain other business activities of exploration and production companies could be limited, resulting in increased operating costs. Any such limitations or increased capital expenditures and operating costs could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to grow and to increase our profitability may depend in part on our ability to make acquisitions. Acquisitions are subject to a number of risks. Our ability to grow and to increase our profitability may depend in part on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in our net income per share and cash flows. We may be unable to make such acquisitions because we are: (1) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them, (2) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms or (3) outbid by competitors. If we are unable to acquire properties containing proved reserves, our total level of proved reserves will decline as a result of our production, which will adversely affect our results of operations. Even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will increase our net income per share and cash flows, these acquisitions may perform below our expectations and nevertheless result in a decrease in net income and/or cash flows. If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our gas pipelines become unavailable to transport or produce gas, our revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected. We depend upon third-party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from our pipelines and facilities for the benefit of our customers. Since we do not own or operate any of these pipelines or other facilities, their continuing operation is not within our control. If any of these third-party pipelines and other facilities become unavailable to transport or produce gas, our revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected. Failure of the gas that we gather on our gas gathering systems to meet the specifications of interconnecting interstate pipelines could result in curtailments by the interstate pipelines. Gas gathered on our gathering systems is delivered into interstate pipelines. These interstate pipelines establish specifications for the gas that they are willing to accept, which include requirements such as hydrocarbon dewpoint, temperature, and foreign content including water, sulfur, carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide. These specifications vary by interstate pipeline. If the gas delivered from our gathering systems fails to meet the specifications of a particular interstate pipeline that pipeline may refuse to accept all or a part of the gas scheduled for delivery to it. In those circumstances, we may be required to find alternative markets for that gas or to shut-in the producers of the non-conforming gas, potentially reducing our throughput volumes and revenues. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines are located or on which we may seek to locate pipelines in the future, which could disrupt our operations and growth. We do not own the land on which our pipelines have been constructed, but we do have right-of-way and easement agreements from landowners and governmental agencies, some of which require annual payments to maintain the agreements and most of which have a perpetual term. New pipeline infrastructure construction 30 Table of Contents may subject us to more onerous terms or to increased costs if the design of a pipeline requires redirecting. Such costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the construction of additions to the pipelines may require us to obtain new rights-of-way prior to constructing new pipelines. We may be unable to obtain such rights-of-way to expand pipelines or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive to obtain new rights-of-way. If the cost of obtaining new rights-of-way increases, then our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success depends on our key management personnel, the loss of any of whom could disrupt our business. The success of our operations and activities is dependent to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of our management. We have not obtained, and we do not anticipate obtaining, “key man” insurance for any of our management. The loss of services of any of our key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. If the key personnel do not devote significant time and effort to the management and operation of the business, our financial results may suffer. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock The price of our common stock has been and may continue to experience volatility. The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. In addition to the risk factors described above, some of the factors that could affect the price of our common stock are quarterly increases or decreases in revenue or earnings, changes in revenue or earnings estimates by the investment community, sales of our common stock by significant stockholders, short-selling of our common stock by investors, issuance of a significant number of shares for equity-based compensation or to raise additional capital to fund our operations, changes in market valuations of similar companies and speculation in the press or investment community about our financial condition or results of operations, as well as any doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. General market conditions and U.S. or international economic factors and political events unrelated to the performance of us may also affect our stock price. For these reasons, investors should not rely on recent trends in the price of our common stock to predict the future price of our common stock or our financial results. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would result in the purchase of our stockholders’ common stock at a premium to the market price or would otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. There are provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would result in the purchase of our stockholders’ common stock at a premium to the market price or would otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, including limitations on stockholder actions by written consent and on stockholder proposals and director nominations at meetings of stockholders, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. Delaware corporation law may also discourage takeover attempts that have not been approved by our board of directors. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. In addition, our credit agreements prohibit us from paying any dividends without the consent of the lenders under the applicable credit agreement, other than dividends payable solely in our equity interests. 31 Table of Contents White Deer Energy L.P. and its affiliates (“White Deer”) beneficially own approximately 70% of our common stock after giving effect to the exercise of their outstanding warrants, giving White Deer influence and control in corporate transactions and other matters, including a sale of our Company. At March 1, 2011, after giving effect to the exercise of its outstanding warrants, White Deer beneficially owns 19,584,205 shares, or approximately 70%, of our common stock. In addition, we have agreed to issue White Deer additional warrants on each quarterly dividend payment date of the Series A Preferred Stock prior to July 1, 2013 on which dividends are not paid in cash but instead accrue. Until December 31, 2011, White Deer, as the holder of the Series B Preferred Stock issued with the warrants, is limited to 45% of the votes applicable to all outstanding voting stock, which limit includes any common stock held by White Deer. After December 31, 2011, the limit only restricts the voting of the Series B Preferred Stock, and White Deer may vote any shares of common stock held by it without regard to that limit. As a result of its ownership, White Deer effectively will be our controlling stockholder and able to control the election of our directors, determine our corporate and management policies and determine, without the consent of our other stockholders, the outcome of certain corporate transactions or other matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including, for example, potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. The interests of White Deer may not coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. Subject to certain restrictions, White Deer may make investments in companies that compete with us. In addition, our interests may conflict with those of White Deer with respect to, among other things, business opportunities that may be presented to White Deer and to our directors associated with White Deer. Substantial sales of our common stock by White Deer could cause our stock price to decline. We are unable to predict whether significant amounts of our common stock will be sold by White Deer. Any sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market by White Deer, or the perception that these sales might occur, could lower the market price of our common stock. Forward-Looking Statements Various statements in this report, including those that express a belief, expectation, or intention, as well as those that are not statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include those regarding projections and estimates concerning the timing and success of specific projects; financial position; business strategy; budgets; amount, nature and timing of capital expenditures; drilling of wells and construction of pipeline infrastructure; acquisition and development of oil and gas properties and related pipeline infrastructure; timing and amount of future production of oil and gas; operating costs and other expenses; estimated future net revenues from oil and gas reserves and the present value thereof; cash flow and anticipated liquidity; funding of our capital expenditures; ability to meet our debt service obligations; and other plans and objectives for future operations. When we use the words “believe,” “intend,” “expect,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “anticipate,” “could,” “estimate,” “plan,” “predict,” “project,” or their negatives, or other similar expressions, the statements which include those words are usually forward-looking statements. When we describe strategy that involves risks or uncertainties, we are making forward-looking statements. The factors impacting these risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: • current weak economic conditions; • volatility of oil and gas prices; • benefits or effects of the Recombination; • increases in the cost of drilling, completion and gas gathering or other costs of developing and producing our reserves; • our debt covenants; 32 Table of Contents • access to capital, including debt and equity markets; • results of our hedging activities; • drilling, operational and environmental risks; and • regulatory changes and litigation risks. You should consider carefully the statements in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” and other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and assumptions about future events. The forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this report; we disclaim any obligation to update these statements unless required by securities law, and we caution you not to rely on them unduly. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made by us in our reports filed with the SEC, which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from those expected or projected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 