ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment in our Company. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected. In such an event, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Solar Business Our Solar gross margins and profitability may be adversely affected by rising commodity costs. We are dependent on certain raw and other materials, particularly resin and paper, for the manufacture of our encapsulants. During 2010, we experienced significant raw material inflation, primarily of EVA resin which comprises approximately 50% to 55% of our cost of encapsulant sales. EVA resin cannot be hedged in the commodity markets. In addition, the cost of equipment used to manufacture our encapsulants is affected by steel prices. The prices for resin, paper and steel have been volatile over the past few years and could increase. If the prices for the commodities and equipment we use in our Solar business increase, our gross margins and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our dependence on a limited number of third-party suppliers for raw materials for our encapsulants and other significant materials used in our process could prevent us from timely delivering encapsulants to our customers in the required quantities, which could result in order cancellations and decreased revenues. We purchase resin and paper liner, the two main components used in our manufacturing process, from a limited number of third-party suppliers. If we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with these suppliers or our other suppliers, or if the suppliers' facilities are affected by events beyond our control, we may be unable to manufacture our encapsulants or our encapsulants may be available only for customers in lesser quantities, at a higher cost or after a long delay. We may be unable to pass along any price increases relating to materials costs to our customers, in which case our gross margins 18 Table of Contents could be adversely affected. In addition, we do not maintain long-term supply contracts with our suppliers. Our inventory of raw materials for our encapsulants, including back-up supplies of resin, may not be sufficient in the event of a supply disruption. In 2005, we encountered a supply disruption when one of our resin suppliers had its facilities damaged by a hurricane, and another supplier had a reactor fire at the same time. This forced us to use our back-up supplies of resin. The failure of a supplier to supply materials and components, or a supplier's failure to supply materials that meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements in a timely manner, could impair our ability to manufacture our products to specifications, particularly if we are unable to obtain these materials and components from alternative sources on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms. If we are forced to change suppliers, our customers may require us to undertake testing to ensure that our encapsulants meet the customer's specifications. If demand for solar energy in general and solar modules in particular does not continue to develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, sales in our Solar business may not grow or may decline, which would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. We expect that a significant amount of the growth in our overall business will come from the sale of encapsulants by our Solar business. Because our encapsulants are used in the production of solar modules, our financial condition and results of operations and future growth are tied to a significant extent to the overall demand for solar energy and solar modules. The solar energy market is at a relatively early stage of development and the extent to which solar modules will be widely adopted is uncertain. Many factors may affect the viability and widespread adoption of solar energy technology and demand for solar modules, and in turn, our encapsulants, including: •cost-effectiveness of solar modules compared to conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources and products; •performance and reliability of solar modules compared to conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources and products; •availability and amount of government subsidies and incentives to support the development and deployment of solar energy technology; •rate of adoption of solar energy and other renewable energy generation technologies, such as wind, geothermal and biomass; •seasonal fluctuations related to economic incentives and weather patterns; •fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of fossil fuels and corn or other biomass materials; •changes in global economic conditions including increases in interest rates and the availability of financing and investment capital that is required to fund solar projects. Any volatility or disruption in the economic environment or the credit markets similar to what was experienced during 2009 may slow the growth of the solar industry, may cause our customers to experience a reduction in demand for their products and related financial difficulties and may adversely impact our Solar business; •fluctuations in capital expenditures by end users of solar modules, which tend to decrease when the overall economy slows down; •the extent to which the electric power and broader energy industries are deregulated to permit broader adoption of solar electricity generation; and 19 Table of Contents •the cost and availability of polysilicon and other key raw materials for the production of solar modules. For example, in 2009, we experienced a decline in our Solar business mainly due to decreased global demand for solar energy as a result of legislative changes, such as the cap in feed-in tariffs in Spain implemented in 2008, the global recession and the worldwide credit crisis. If demand for solar energy and solar modules fails to develop sufficiently, demand for our customers' products as well as demand for our encapsulants will decrease, and we may not be able to grow our business or Solar net sales and our financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. A significant reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives or a change in government policies that promote the use of solar energy could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Demand for our encapsulants depends on the continued adoption of solar energy and the resultant demand for solar modules. Demand for our products depends, in large part, on government incentives aimed to promote greater use of solar energy. In many countries in which solar modules are sold, solar energy would not be commercially viable without government incentives. This is because the cost of generating electricity from solar energy currently exceeds, and we believe will continue to exceed for the foreseeable future, the costs of generating electricity from conventional energy sources. The scope of government incentives for solar energy depends, to a large extent, on political and policy developments relating to environmental and energy concerns in a given country that are subject to change, which could lead to a significant reduction in, or a discontinuation of, the support for renewable energy in such country. Federal, state and local governmental bodies in many of the target markets for our Solar business, including Germany, Italy, Spain, the United States, France, Japan and South Korea, have provided subsidies and economic incentives in the form of feed-in tariffs, rebates, tax credits and other incentives to end users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar energy products to promote the use of solar energy and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. These government economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated earlier than anticipated. For example, in Germany, which is currently the largest solar PV end-user market, the government enacted legislation that reduced feed-in tariffs beginning June 30, 2010. In early 2011, the German government enacted further legislation to accelerate the annual year-end feed-in-tariff reduction to July 1, 2011 for roof-top systems and September 1, 2011 for ground-mount projects. As such, this announcement may result in the pull-in of demand from solar module manufacturers due to increased end-user demand being driven by the incentive to purchase a solar system prior to the enactment of the decreased feed-in tariff incentives. As such, we may see atypical Solar sales during the first half of 2011 that might not occur during the second half of 2011. If solar module demand in Germany continues to grow at a rate that the German government believes is excessive, it may consider capping the amount of PV installations that may qualify for the feed-in-tariff incentives. Also, in September 2008, the Spanish parliament adopted new legislation that decreased the feed-in tariff for solar energy by approximately 27% and capped its subsidized PV installations at 500 MW for 2009. This event drove an over-supply of solar module inventory in the supply chain during the first half of 2009 and was one of the main drivers behind our sales volume decline in 2009 compared to 2008. More recently, Italy has emerged as a significant solar market. The same risks identified for the German market now exist for the Italian market. Also, many European governments are currently experiencing sovereign debt issues. As such, a risk exists that some of these governments may reduce current subsidies provided for PV installations in conjunction with overall lower fiscal policy spending. Moreover, electric utility companies, or generators of electricity from fossil fuels or other renewable energy sources, could also lobby for changes in the relevant legislation in their markets to protect their revenue streams. Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives for solar energy, especially those in our target markets, could cause our Solar net sales to decline and harm our business. 20 Table of Contents Our Solar business is dependent on a limited number of customers, which may cause significant fluctuations or result in declines in our Solar net sales. The solar module industry is relatively concentrated, and we expect this concentration to increase. As a result, we sell substantially all of our encapsulants to a limited number of solar module manufacturers. We expect that our results of operations will, for the foreseeable future, continue to depend on the sale of encapsulants to a relatively small number of customers. Sales to First Solar and Suntech, each of which accounted for more than 10% of our Solar net sales, together accounted for 27.8% of our Solar net sales for the year ended December 31, 2010. Sales to First Solar accounted for 27.1% and 19.1% of our Solar net sales in the years 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, the top five customers in our Solar segment accounted for approximately 43.2%, 55.0% and 47.0% of our Solar net sales in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Furthermore, participants in the solar industry, including our customers, are experiencing pressure to reduce their costs. Because we are part of the overall supply chain to our customers, any cost pressures experienced by them may affect our business and results of operations. Our customers may not continue to generate significant Solar net sales for us. Conversely, we may be unable to meet the production demands of our customers or maintain these customer relationships. Also, new entrants into the solar module manufacturing industry, primarily from China, could negatively impact the demand for, and pricing of, our customers' products, which could reduce the demand for our encapsulants. Over the last couple of years, we believe our European customers have lost market share to low-cost module manufacturers, primarily from China, that continue to penetrate the European solar market. If we are not able to supply encapsulants to these new entrants in the future, we could lose market share and also face competition from new encapsulant manufacturers. In addition, a significant portion of our outstanding accounts receivable is derived from sales to a limited number of customers. The accounts receivable from our top five Solar customers with the largest receivable balances represented 33.8% and 38.7% of our accounts receivable balance as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. Moreover, many solar companies are facing and may continue to face significant liquidity and capital expenditure requirements, and as a result, our customers may have trouble making payments owed to us, which could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any one of the following events may cause material fluctuations or declines in our Solar net sales and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: •reduction, postponement or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers; •reduction in the price one or more significant solar customers are willing to pay for our encapsulants; •selection by one or more solar customers of products competitive with our encapsulants; •loss of one or more significant solar customers and failure to obtain additional or replacement customers; and •failure of any of our significant solar customers to make timely payment for products. Our Solar business's growth is dependent upon the growth of our key Solar customers and our ability to keep pace with our customers' growth. In addition to relying on a small number of customers, we believe we were the primary supplier to the majority of our top 10 Solar customers in 2010. The future growth and success in our Solar business depends on the ability of such customers to grow their businesses and our ability to meet any such growth, principally through the addition of manufacturing capacity. If our Solar customers do not increase production of solar modules, there will be no corresponding increase in encapsulant orders. Alternatively, in the event such customers grow their businesses, we may not be able to meet their increased demands, which would require such customers to find alternative sources for encapsulants. In 21 Table of Contents addition, it is possible that customers for whom we are the exclusive supplier of encapsulants will seek to qualify and establish a secondary supplier of encapsulants, which would reduce our share with such customers and could increase that customer's pricing leverage. If our Solar customers do not grow their businesses or they find alternative sources for encapsulants to meet their demands, it could limit our ability to grow our business and increase our Solar net sales. Technological changes in the solar energy industry or our failure to develop and introduce or integrate new technologies could render our encapsulants uncompetitive or obsolete, which would adversely affect our business. The solar energy market is very competitive, rapidly evolving and is characterized by continually changing technology requiring continuous improvements in solar modules to increase efficiency and power output and improve aesthetics. This requires us and our customers to continuously invest significant financial resources to develop new solar module technology and enhance existing solar modules to keep pace with evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements and to compete effectively in the future. Our failure to further refine our encapsulant technology and develop and introduce new or enhanced encapsulants or other products, or our competitors' development of products and technologies that perform better or are more cost effective than our products, could cause our encapsulants to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Product development activities are inherently uncertain, and we could encounter difficulties and increased costs in commercializing new technologies. As a result, our product development expenditures in our Solar business may not produce corresponding benefits. Moreover, we produce a component utilized in the manufacturing of solar modules. New solar technologies may emerge or existing technologies may gain market share that do not require encapsulants as we produce them, or at all. Also, manufacturing methods may emerge that could be more advanced or efficient than our current manufacturing capability. Such changes could result in decreased demand for our encapsulants or render them obsolete, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We typically rely upon trade secrets and contractual restrictions, and not patents, to protect our proprietary rights. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position and protecting our rights or defending against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly. Protection of proprietary processes, methods, documentation and other technology is critical to our business. Failure to protect, monitor and control the use of our existing intellectual property rights could cause us to lose our competitive advantage and incur significant expenses. We typically rely on trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property rights and currently only hold one patent related to our Solar business. However, the measures we take to protect our trade secrets and other intellectual property rights may be insufficient. While we enter into confidentiality agreements with our Solar employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property rights, such confidentiality provisions related to our trade secrets could be breached and may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets. Also, others may independently develop technologies or products that are similar or identical to ours. In such case, our trade secrets would not prevent third parties from competing with us. Third parties or employees may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary technologies or other intellectual property rights, which could harm our business and operating results. Policing unauthorized use of intellectual property rights can be difficult and expensive, and adequate remedies may not be available. As previously disclosed, in October 2007, we filed a complaint against James P. Galica ("Galica") and JPS Elastomerics Corp. ("JPS") in the Massachusetts Superior Court in Hampshire County (the "Court"). We alleged that the defendants misappropriated trade secrets and violated the Massachusetts 22 Table of Contents Unfair and Deceptive Trade Practices Act as well as breaches of contract, the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and fiduciary duty against Galica (the "State Court Action"). The Court determined that JPS and Galica had violated the Massachusetts Unfair and Deceptive Trade Practices Act, finding that the technology for our polymeric sheeting product is a trade secret and that JPS and Galica had misappropriated our trade secrets. On January 27, 2011, the Court awarded us the right to recover from the defendants (i) actual monetary damages of $1.1 million, (ii) punitive damages of $2.2 million, (iii) reasonable attorneys fees of $3.9 million, (iv) reasonable costs of $1.1 million, and (v) 12% interest on each of the monetary awards from the date of the judgment (except for the actual monetary damages which accrues interest from October 2, 2007, the date the complaint was entered). In addition, the Court imposed a five year production injunction against producing low shrink EVA encapsulant, and a permanent use injunction against the defendants using our trade secrets. On January 28, 2011, the defendants filed a motion seeking to stay certain elements of the injunction which was denied by the Court on February 8, 2011. The defendants filed a motion appealing the Court's denial of its motion as well as a notice of appeal with respect to the Court's order in favor of us. On February 28, 2011, the Massachusetts Appeals Court denied JPS's appeal of the lower court's denial of the request for a stay. On March 4, 2011, the defendants filed a petition to stay or modify the injunction pending appeal with the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court as well as an emergency motion for an immediate stay pending full briefing and hearing of the petition. The Supreme Judicial Court denied the defendants' emergency motion on March 7, 2011. To date, the Supreme Judicial Court has not taken action on the defendants' petition. On September 17, 2010, JPS filed an amended complaint against our wholly-owned subsidiary, Specialized Technology Resources, Inc. ("STR"), in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The amended complaint alleged various antitrust and unfair competition claims and that the State Court Action (described above) was sham litigation initiated by STR in an attempt to monopolize the domestic and international market for low-shrink EVA encapsulants. JPS also alleged other schemes to monopolize and unfair competition in violation of federal and state laws. JPS sought $60.0 million in compensatory damages, treble damages, a permanent injunction against STR for various activities, reimbursement of legal fees for the State Court Action as well as for this matter, and disgorgement of proceeds obtained by STR from allegedly anti-competitive and tortious acts. On October 13, 2010, we filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint, and on January 5, 2011 the Court held a hearing on STR's motion to dismiss. At the hearing, the Court ruled in favor of STR and dismissed the case. On January 14, 2011, the Court issued its written opinion dismissing the case and on January 24, 2011 STR filed a motion for Rule 11 sanctions against the defendants and their counsel. On February 10, 2011, JPS filed a notice of appeal with the Appellate Court. The First Circuit Court of Appeals has scheduled a settlement conference and set a briefing schedule in this matter. The settlement conference is set for April 14, 2011. JPS' brief is due on April 18, 2011 and STR's brief will be due thirty days after JPS serves its brief. We intend to continue to vigorously defend this action which we consider meritless and to pursue our motion for Rule 11 sanctions against JPS and its counsel. We face competition in our Solar business from other companies producing encapsulants for solar modules. The market for encapsulants is highly competitive and continually evolving. We compete with a number of encapsulant manufacturers, some of which are large, global companies with substantial financial, manufacturing and logistics resources and strong customer relationships. If we fail to attract and retain customers for our current and future products, we will be unable to increase our revenues and market share. Our primary encapsulant competitors include Bridgestone Corporation, Hangzhou First PV Material Co., Ltd., Solutia Solar GmbH and Mitsui Chemicals Group, Inc. We also face limited competition from suppliers of non-EVA encapsulants including Dow Corning Corporation, Dai Nippon Printing Co., Ltd. and DuPont. We also expect to compete with new entrants to the encapsulant market, including those that may offer more advanced technological solutions, possess advanced or more efficient manufacturing capabilities or that have greater financial resources than we 23 Table of Contents do. Further, as the China solar market matures, we expect additional encapsulant providers from China and the greater Asian markets will compete with us. Our competitors may develop and produce or may be currently producing encapsulants that offer advantages over our products. A widespread adoption of any of these technologies could result in a rapid decline in our position in the encapsulant market and our revenues and adversely affect our margins. Our failure to build and operate new manufacturing facilities and increase production capacity at our existing facilities to meet our customers' requirements could harm our business and damage our customer relationships in the event demand for encapsulants increases. Conversely, expanding our production in times of overcapacity could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2008, our manufacturing facilities generally operated at full production capacity, which constrained our ability to meet increased demand from our customers and to obtain additional customers. The future success of our Solar business depends, in part, on our ability to increase production capacity to satisfy any increased demand from our customers. We may be unable to expand our Solar business, satisfy customer requirements, maintain our competitive position and improve profitability if we are unable to build and operate new manufacturing facilities and increase production capacity at our existing facilities to meet any increased demand for our Solar products. For example, if there are delays in our East Windsor, Connecticut facility becoming operational and achieving target yields and output, we will not meet our target for adding capacity, which would limit our ability to increase encapsulant sales and result in lower than expected Solar net sales and higher than expected costs and expenses. Moreover, we may experience delays in receiving equipment and be unable to meet any increases in customer demand. Failure to satisfy customer demand may result in a loss of market share to competitors and may damage our relationships with key customers. In addition, due to the lead time required to produce the equipment used in our encapsulant manufacturing process, it normally takes about one year to obtain new machines after they are ordered. Accordingly, we are required to order production equipment well in advance of expanding our facilities or opening new facilities and in advance of accepting additional customer orders. If such facilities are not expanded or completed on a timely basis or if anticipated customer orders do not materialize, we may not be able to generate sufficient Solar net sales to offset the costs of new production equipment, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Furthermore, we rely on longer-term forecasts from our Solar customers to plan our capital expenditures. If these forecasts prove to be inaccurate, either we may have spent too much on capacity growth, which could require us to consolidate facilities, in which case our financial results would be adversely affected, or we may have spent too little on capital expenditures, in which case we may be unable to satisfy customer demand, which could adversely affect our business. Furthermore, our ability to establish and operate new manufacturing facilities and expand production capacity is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including: •restrictions in the agreements governing our indebtedness that restrict the amount of capital that can be spent on manufacturing facilities; •inability to raise additional funds or generate sufficient cash flow from operations to purchase raw material inventory and equipment or to build additional manufacturing facilities; •delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as increases in raw material prices and long lead times or delays with equipment vendors; •delays or denials of required approvals by relevant government authorities; •diversion of significant management attention and other resources; •inability to hire qualified personnel; and •failure to execute our expansion plan effectively. 24 Table of Contents If we are unable to establish or successfully operate additional manufacturing facilities or to increase production capacity at our existing facilities, as a result of the risks described above or otherwise, we may not be able to expand our business as planned and our Solar net sales may be lower than expected. Alternatively, if we build additional manufacturing facilities or increase production capacity at our existing facilities, we may not be able to generate sufficient customer demand for our encapsulants to support the increased production levels, which would adversely affect our business and operating margins. Our Solar business is exposed to risks related to running our facilities at full production capacity from time to time that could result in decreased Solar net sales and affect our ability to grow our business in future periods. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2008, our manufacturing facilities generally operated at full production capacity. If any of our current or future production lines or equipment were to experience any problems or downtime, such as in 2005 when one of our plants was without electricity for five days following a hurricane, we may not be able to shift production to new lines and may not be able to meet our production targets, which would result in decreased Solar net sales and adversely affect our customer relationships. It would also limit our ability to obtain new customers. As a result, our per-unit manufacturing costs would increase, we would be unable to increase sales as planned and our earnings would likely be negatively impacted. In addition, when our encapsulant production lines are running at full capacity, they are generally used solely to meet current customers' orders. As such, there is very limited production line availability to test new technologies or further refine existing technologies that are important for keeping pace with evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements and competing effectively in the future. Limitations in our ability to test new products or enhancements to our existing products could cause our encapsulants to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which would adversely affect our business. We may be subject to claims that we have infringed, misappropriated or otherwise violated the patent or other intellectual property rights of a third party. The outcome of any such claims is uncertain and any unfavorable result could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to claims by third parties that we have infringed, misappropriated or otherwise violated their intellectual property rights. These claims may be costly to defend, and we ultimately may not be successful. An adverse determination in any such litigation could subject us to significant liability to third parties (potentially including treble damages), require us to seek licenses from third parties (which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all), make substantial one-time or ongoing royalty payments, redesign our products or subject us to temporary or permanent injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our products, the use of our technologies or the conduct of our business. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such litigation. In addition, we may have no insurance coverage in connection with such litigation and may have to bear all costs arising from any such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generally operate on a purchase order basis with our Solar customers, and their ability to cancel, reduce, or postpone orders could reduce our Solar net sales and increase our costs. Sales to our Solar customers are typically made through non-exclusive, short-term purchase order arrangements that specify prices and delivery parameters. The timing of placing these orders and the amounts of these orders are at our customers' discretion. Customers may cancel, reduce or postpone purchase orders with us prior to production on relatively short notice. If customers cancel, reduce or postpone existing orders or fail to make anticipated orders, it could result in the delay or loss of anticipated sales, which could lead to excess inventory and unabsorbed overhead costs. Because our 25 Table of Contents encapsulants have a limited shelf life from the time they are produced until they are incorporated into a solar module, we may be required to sell any excess inventory at a reduced price, or we may not be able to sell it at all and incur an inventory write-off, which could reduce our Solar net sales and increase our costs. During the first half of 2009, we experienced postponements and cancellations in orders and, as a result, incurred approximately $1.0 million of finished goods inventory write-offs. We may be unable to manage the expansion of our Solar operations effectively. We expect to expand our existing facilities and add new facilities to meet future demand for encapsulants. We are currently expanding our Malaysia facility to double the size of our existing production and warehouse space for a capacity of up to 5.0 GW and also have on order an additional 1.2 GW of production capacity that is expected to be installed during the third quarter of 2011. In December 2010, we acquired a 275,000 square foot manufacturing facility in East Windsor, Connecticut. This facility will provide us needed space for capacity to meet future demand and enable us to consolidate our Connecticut-based Solar operations. We expect the transition of manufacturing operations to occur during 2011. We also have on order an additional 1.2 GW of production capacity that is expected to be installed in the East Windsor facility during the third quarter of 2011. To manage the potential growth of our operations, we will be required to improve operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, increase manufacturing capacity and output and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. Furthermore, management will be required to maintain and expand our relationships with our customers, suppliers and other third parties. Our Solar business's current and planned operations, personnel, systems, internal procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future growth. If we are unable to manage the growth of our Solar business effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business strategies or respond to competitive pressures. As a supplier to solar module manufacturers, disruptions in any other component of the supply chain to solar module manufacturers may adversely affect our customers and consequently limit the growth of our business and revenue. We supply a component to solar module manufacturers. As such, if there are disruptions in any other area of the supply chain for solar module manufacturers, it could affect the overall demand for our encapsulants. For example, the increased demand for polysilicon due to the rapid growth of the solar energy and computer industries and the significant lead time required for building additional capacity for polysilicon production led to an industry-wide shortage of polysilicon from 2005 through 2008, which is an essential raw material in the production of most of the solar modules produced by many of our customers. This and other disruptions to the supply chain may force our customers to reduce production, which in turn would decrease customer demand for our encapsulants and could adversely affect our Solar net sales. In addition, reduced orders for our encapsulants could result in underutilization of our production facilities and cause an increase of our marginal production cost. During the first half of 2009, we experienced postponements and cancellations in orders and, as a result, incurred approximately $1.0 million of finished goods inventory write-offs. The sales cycle for our encapsulants can be lengthy, which could result in uncertainty and delays in generating Solar net sales. The integration and testing of our encapsulants with prospective customers' solar modules or enhancements to existing customers' solar modules requires a substantial amount of time and resources. A Solar customer may need up to one year and in some cases even longer, to test, evaluate and adopt our encapsulants and qualify a new solar module, before ordering our encapsulants. Our Solar customers then need additional time to begin volume production of solar modules that incorporate our encapsulants. As a result, the complete sales cycle for our Solar business can be lengthy. We may experience a significant delay between the time we increase our expenditures for product development, 26 Table of Contents sales and marketing efforts and inventory for our Solar business and the time we generate Solar net sales, if any, from these expenditures. Our Solar business could be adversely affected by seasonal trends and construction cycles. We may be subject to industry-specific seasonal fluctuations in the future, particularly in climates that experience colder weather during the winter months, such as Germany. There are various reasons for seasonality fluctuations, mostly related to economic incentives and weather patterns. Prior to 2010, the construction of solar energy systems in Germany was concentrated in the second half of the calendar year, largely due to the annual reduction of the applicable minimum feed-in tariff. In early 2011, the German government enacted further legislation to accelerate the annual year-end feed-in-tariff reduction to July 1, 2011 for roof-top systems and September 1, 2011 for ground-mount projects. This announcement may result in the pull-in of demand from solar module manufacturers due to increased end-user demand being driven by the incentive to purchase a solar system prior to the enactment of the decreased feed-in tariff incentives. As such, we may see atypical Solar sales during the first half of 2011 that may not occur during the second half of 2011. In the United States, solar module customers will sometimes make purchasing decisions towards the end of the year in order to take advantage of tax credits or for budgetary reasons. In addition, construction levels are typically slower in colder months. Accordingly, our business and results of operations could be affected by seasonal fluctuations in the future. Problems with product quality or product performance, including defects, could result in a decrease in customers and Solar net sales, unexpected expenses and loss of market share. Our encapsulants are complex and must meet stringent quality requirements. Products as complex as our encapsulants may contain undetected defects, especially when first introduced. For example, our encapsulants may contain defects that are not detected until after they are shipped or are installed because we cannot test for all possible scenarios. These defects could cause us to incur significant costs, including costs to service or replace products, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts and significantly affect our customer relationships and business reputation. If we deliver products with defects, or if there is a perception that our products contain errors or defects, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our encapsulants could materially decline. In addition, we could be subject to product liability claims and could experience increased costs and expenses related to significant product liability claims or other legal judgments against us, or a widespread product recall by us or a solar module manufacturer. For example, during the second half of 2008, we recorded an accrual of $5.6 million relating to specific product performance matters, which amount represents management's best estimate of the costs to repair or replace such product. The majority of this accrual relates to a quality claim by one of our customers in connection with a non-encapsulant product that we purchased from a vendor in 2005 and 2006 and resold. We stopped selling this product in 2006 and are currently attempting to resolve this matter. We may increase our accruals in future periods or incur charges in excess of that amount, which would result in increased expenses in future periods that adversely affect our results of operations. The manufacturing process for our encapsulants is highly complex. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yield and, in some cases, cause production to be suspended. We have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. This typically occurs during the production of new encapsulants or the installation and start-up of new process technologies or equipment. For example, during the third quarter of 2010, we experienced production inefficiencies and scrap associated with ramping newly installed production capacity at our Malaysia facility that negatively impacted our financial results. As we expand our production capacity, we may experience lower yields initially as is typical with any new equipment or process. If we do not achieve planned yields, our costs of sales could increase, and product availability would decrease resulting in lower Solar net sales than expected. 27 Table of Contents Changes to existing regulations and capacity in the utility sector and the solar energy industry may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar modules, which in turn may significantly reduce demand for our products. The market for power generation products is heavily influenced by government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as the internal policies of electric utility companies. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of end user-owned power generation. In a number of countries, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. End users' purchases of alternative energy sources, including solar modules, could be deterred by these regulations and policies. For example, utility companies sometimes charge fees to larger, industrial customers for disconnecting from the electricity transmission grid or relying on the electricity transmission grid for back-up purposes. Such fees could increase the costs of using solar modules, which may lead to reduced demand for solar modules and, in turn, our encapsulants. We anticipate that solar modules and their installation will continue to be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters in various countries. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to solar modules may result in significant additional expenses to our Solar customers, and their distributors and end users, which could cause a significant reduction in demand for solar modules and, in turn, our encapsulants. The adoption of solar energy in most parts of the world will be dependent on the capacity of applicable electricity transmission grids to distribute the increased volume of electricity to end-users. The lack of available capacity on the transmission grid could substantially impact the adoption of solar energy which could cause a significant reduction in demand for solar modules and, in turn, our encapsulants. Risks Related to Our Quality Assurance Business The quality assurance testing markets are highly competitive, and many of the companies with which we compete have substantially greater resources and geographical presence than us. The quality assurance industry is highly competitive, and our Quality Assurance business competes in the United States and internationally with many well-established quality assurance and certification companies on the basis of technical and industry knowledge, pricing, geographic proximity, client service, timeliness, accuracy, marketing, breadth of service offering, level of consultation and actionable information and technical excellence in a given product category. Our global competitors operate in multiple geographic areas while other competitors operate locally. In addition, we compete with non-profit certification companies and in-house quality assurance programs maintained and operated by manufacturers and retailers themselves. The ability to increase or maintain our Quality Assurance net sales or gross margins in the global market or in various local markets may be limited as a result of actions by competitors. Our competitors may be able to provide clients with different or greater capabilities or benefits than we can provide in areas such as geographical presence, technical qualifications, price and the availability of human resources. The inability of our Quality Assurance business to compete effectively with respect to any of these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In order to remain competitive in the quality assurance testing industry, we must also keep pace with changing technologies and client preferences. If we are unable to expand our geographic presence and testing capacity, maintain or enter into strategic partnerships or differentiate our services from those of our competitors, our Quality Assurance business may not be able to obtain new clients or it may lose existing clients. Competitors may in the future adopt aggressive pricing policies and diversify their service offerings. In addition, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and compete more effectively than our Quality Assurance 28 Table of Contents business can. There is also a trend towards consolidation in certain markets that our Quality Assurance business serves, which may result in the emergence of new or larger competitors. If we cannot offer prices, services or a quality of service at least comparable to those offered by our competitors, we could lose market share or our profitability may be affected. These competitive pressures could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Damage to the professional reputation of our Quality Assurance business would adversely affect our Quality Assurance net sales and the growth prospects of our Quality Assurance business. Our Quality Assurance business depends on longstanding relationships with our clients, including leading global retailers and consumer product manufacturers, for a significant portion of our Quality Assurance net sales. Product liability claims, poor performance, lax standards, violations of laws or regulations, employee misconduct, information security breaches or other action affecting our Quality Assurance business could damage our reputation. Providing quality assurance services for products for human use or consumption involves inherent legal and reputational risks and our success depends on the ability of our Quality Assurance business to maintain service quality for our existing clients. Service quality issues, real or alleged, or allegations of product defects, contamination, tampering, misbranding, spoliation, or other adulteration, even when false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of our Quality Assurance business and may cause our clients to choose other quality assurance providers. We also provide our clients with limited indemnities for our failure to meet applicable standards. Quality assurance testing protocols only identify known risks, and we have cleared products in the past that later were determined to present a previously unknown risk. No testing protocol can discern unknown risks but we may nevertheless be held liable for those risks. A significant product liability or other legal judgment against our Quality Assurance business, or a widespread product recall of a tested product, may adversely affect our profitability. Moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful, has no merit or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against products or processes that our Quality Assurance business tested could adversely affect our reputation, which in turn could lead to a loss of existing clients or make it more difficult to attract new clients. If our Quality Assurance business's reputation is damaged, our net sales and growth prospects could be adversely affected. Failure to maintain professional accreditations and memberships may affect our Quality Assurance business's ability to compete or generate net sales. Our Quality Assurance clients rely on our numerous professional accreditations and memberships, including ISO 9000, ISO 17025, SA 8000 and Underwriters Laboratories, to ensure continued compliance with their quality assurance and social audit standards. Certain accreditations are granted for limited periods of time and are subject to periodic renewal. Any failure to meet our ongoing professional responsibilities could lead us to lose, either temporarily or on a permanent basis, one or more of such accreditations or memberships. In addition, a public authority or professional organization that has granted one or more accreditations or memberships to us could decide to unilaterally withdraw such accreditations and memberships. If our accreditations and memberships with these or other professional organizations are suspended or revoked, our clients may decrease the amount of business that they do with our Quality Assurance business, or stop doing business with us altogether, which would negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Quality Assurance business's growth depends on our ability to expand our operations and capacity and manage such expansion effectively. In order to maintain our current clients and grow our Quality Assurance business, we must be able to meet increasing client demand, which requires additional space, equipment and human resources. The future success of our Quality Assurance business depends on our ability to increase our service capacity, and if we are unable to expand our operations, obtain testing equipment and hire additional qualified personnel, we may be unable to expand our Quality Assurance business and satisfy client 29 Table of Contents demands. The testing equipment our Quality Assurance business uses is highly customized and is built to order, which results in significant lead times. Therefore, it can take several months to obtain, install and calibrate new equipment once ordered, and we must have the facilities available to accommodate it. Building a new testing facility can take up to one year. Additional expansion in existing or new markets could strain these resources and increase capital needs, and our personnel, systems, procedures, controls and existing space may not be adequate to support further expansion. Additionally, international growth in our Quality Assurance business may be limited by the fact that in some countries we are required to operate with a local strategic partner. Finding these partners may be difficult or impossible, and our arrangements with them may negatively affect our Quality Assurance net sales. Moreover, we have a limited number of laboratories in which to process engagements and a limited number of trained personnel to conduct inspections and audits. When these laboratories or our personnel resources are at capacity, we cannot accept more engagements. Our Quality Assurance clients may require capacity and resources greater than that which we can provide. If we cannot process engagements in the time our clients require due to capacity or other resource constraints, we may lose clients or experience a decline in engagements. On the other hand, if we expand our capacity or direct labor force too quickly, we may experience lower profitability if the anticipated level of sales volume does not occur. For example, we expanded our direct labor force during the end of 2009 to ensure we had proper resources to support anticipated higher sales volume for 2010 that did not materialize. Due to certain clients reducing the scope of services procured from us, we were required to initiate a cost reduction plan to better align our labor cost with actual net sales. As such, our 2010 Quality Assurance business's profitability was lower than in 2009. Our Quality Assurance business may lose money or experience reduced margins if we do not adequately estimate the cost of our Quality Assurance engagements. We perform the majority of our Quality Assurance engagements on a fixed-price basis. Fixed-price contracts require us to price our contracts by predicting expenditures in advance. In addition, some engagements obligate our Quality Assurance business to provide ongoing and other supporting or ancillary services on a fixed-price basis or with limitations on our ability to increase prices. When making proposals for engagements on a fixed-price basis, we rely on our estimates of costs and timing for completing the projects. These estimates reflect management's best judgment regarding our Quality Assurance business's capability to complete the task efficiently. Any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of fixed-price contracts, including delays caused by factors outside our control, such as increased energy and labor costs, could result in losses or reduced margins. Unexpected costs and unanticipated delays may cause our Quality Assurance business to incur losses or reduced margins on fixed-price contracts. In addition, some of our Quality Assurance engagements are on a time-and-material basis. While these types of contracts are generally subject to less uncertainty than fixed-price contracts, to the extent that actual labor and other costs are higher than the contract rates, these contracts may be less profitable or unprofitable. 30 Table of Contents Our failure to establish and maintain partnerships and other strategic alliances with other quality assurance providers may delay the expansion or provision of our services, harm our reputation and cause us to lose clients or prevent us from growing our Quality Assurance business. Our Quality Assurance business serves a diverse and global client base, which requires us to operate where such clients operate. We are required to work with a partner in certain countries either because of local laws and regulations or because such arrangements are customary to doing business in such countries. Also, we enter into and will continue to enter into strategic alliances with other quality assurance service providers in order to meet client demands in countries in which it may not be practicable for us to operate on a stand-alone basis. We do not generally have long-term contracts with our strategic partners, so they may cease doing business with us on relatively short or no notice. Yet if performance issues arise with respect to a strategic partner's services, such issues could damage our Quality Assurance business's reputation and exclusivity arrangements with such partners could prevent us from engaging in new strategic alliances for certain testing and inspection services in particular markets. In addition, we have also entered into joint venture agreements that restrict our ability to enter into certain product testing markets in specified geographic markets, either with another strategic partner or on our own. If we are unable to establish or maintain relationships with strategic partners, if such partners damage our reputation or if contract arrangements with such partners prevent us from entering certain testing markets, we could lose quality assurance clients or may not be able to expand our Quality Assurance business, either of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our Quality Assurance business's failure to develop and protect its proprietary systems of design reviews and research processes could negatively affect its business and future growth. Our Quality Assurance business does not rely on any patents and relies primarily on trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and other contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. In addition to breaching confidentiality agreements, former employees and others may obtain knowledge of our Quality Assurance business's trade secrets through independent development or other legal means. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive, and adequate remedies may not be available in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of trade secrets. Any lawsuits to protect our Quality Assurance business's intellectual property may be costly and may divert management attention and other resources away from our business, and any such litigation may not be resolved in our favor. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our Quality Assurance business's intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and competitive position. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against such litigation costs and have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. Our Quality Assurance business may be subject to professional liability claims and may not have adequate insurance coverage. Quality assurance testing protocols are only designed to identify known risks. In the past, our Quality Assurance business has cleared products that only later were determined to present a previously unknown risk. Testing protocols cannot discern unknown risks, for which we nevertheless may be held liable. Also, there may be a significant delay between the provision of services and the making of a related claim. While we maintain insurance for our Quality Assurance business to protect against losses from professional liability claims, such insurance may not be available, is subject to deductibles and may not be adequate to cover all the costs and expenses related to a significant professional liability or other legal judgment against us, which could adversely affect the results of operations of our Quality Assurance business. In addition, the insurance market could evolve in a manner unfavorable to us, resulting in increased premiums or making it impossible or much more expensive to obtain adequate insurance 31 Table of Contents coverage. These factors could result in a substantial increase in our insurance costs, cause us to operate without insurance or cause us to withdraw from certain markets, which could have a significant adverse effect on our Quality Assurance business and related results of operations. Changes in regulations applicable to our Quality Assurance business could have a significant effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or future growth. Our Quality Assurance business conducts operations in a heavily regulated environment, with regulations differing, sometimes substantially, from one country to another. Regulations applicable to our Quality Assurance business may change either favorably or unfavorably for us. The strengthening or enforcement of regulations, while in some cases creating new business opportunities, may also create operating conditions that increase our operating costs, limit our business areas or more generally slow the development of our Quality Assurance business. In extreme cases, such changes in the regulatory environment could lead us to exit certain markets where we consider the regulation to be overly burdensome. In general, rapid and/or important changes in regulations could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or future growth. Risks Related to Our Businesses The global credit markets and overall worldwide economic conditions may have significant effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Significant reductions in available capital and liquidity, substantial reductions and/or fluctuations in equity and currency values and a worldwide recession may materially adversely affect both our Solar and Quality Assurance businesses. Factors such as lack of consumer spending, business investment and government spending, the volatility and weakness of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn like the one experienced in 2009, which was characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our products and services may be adversely affected. Continued market disruptions and broader economic downturns may affect our and our customers' access to capital, lead to lower demand for our products and services, increase our exposure to losses from bad debts or result in our customers ceasing operations, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, the credit markets have experienced unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption. In many cases, the markets still have limited credit capacity for certain issuers, and lenders have requested more restrictive terms. The market for new debt financing is extremely limited and in some cases not available at all. If credit markets become disrupted or volatile, we may not be able to refinance our existing debt, draw upon our revolving credit facility or incur additional debt, which may require us to seek other funding sources to meet our liquidity needs or to fund planned expansion. As such, we may not be able to obtain debt or other financing on reasonable terms, or at all. Furthermore, the tightening of credit in financial markets may delay or prevent our customers from securing funding adequate to operate their businesses and purchase our products and services and could lead to an increase in our bad debt levels. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our key employees. We are dependent on the services of Dennis L. Jilot, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Barry A. Morris, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Robert S. Yorgensen, our Vice President and President of STR Solar, Alan N. Forman, our Vice President and General Counsel and other members of our senior management team. The loss of any member of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on us. Members of our senior 32 Table of Contents management team may terminate their employment with us upon little or no notice. There is a risk that we will not be able to retain or replace these key employees. If we are unable to attract, train and retain technical personnel, our businesses may be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified technical personnel. There is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel for both our Solar and Quality Assurance businesses, and we may be unable to attract or retain our technical personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our businesses may be materially and adversely affected. Our substantial international operations subject us to a number of risks. We operate in 36 countries worldwide, we have encapsulant manufacturing facilities operating in Spain and Malaysia, and our Quality Assurance business annually conducts audits or inspections in over 40 countries. Of our total net sales, 57.2%, 44.2% and 49.3% were generated from outside the United States in the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and we expect that our international operations will continue to grow. As such, our international operations are subject to a number of risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow, including: •difficulty in enforcing agreements in foreign legal systems; •foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade and investment, including currency exchange controls; •potentially adverse tax consequences; •fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect our profitability in U.S. dollars; •potential noncompliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 ("FCPA"), the Office of Foreign Assets Control and similar non-U.S. laws and regulations; •inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; •labor strikes, especially those affecting transportation and shipping; •risk of nationalization of private enterprises; •changes in general economic and political conditions in the countries in which we operate, including changes in the government incentives our Solar module manufacturing customers and their customers are relying on; •unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements, including those with respect to local content rules, environmental protection, export duties and quotas; •disruptions in our business operations or damage to strategic assets that may not be recoverable from applicable insurance policies caused by potential unfavorable weather patterns in certain locations of the world including, but not limited to, earthquakes, typhoons and hurricanes; •difficulty with staffing and managing widespread operations; and •difficulty of and costs relating to compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the international markets in which we operate. 33 Table of Contents In late 2008, in the course of routine monitoring of our internal control, we discovered payments made and expenses incurred in our international Quality Assurance operations in India and China that may have been in violation of the FCPA as well as local law, which resulted in personnel changes and our adoption of enhanced FCPA-related policies, procedures, training and controls. It is possible that despite these efforts, additional FCPA or anti-corruption issues may arise in the future. We also self-reported the existence of these payments to the U.S. Department of Justice in 2009, which has not taken any action with respect to the reported matters. Any actions by this or any other governmental agencies, or any failure by us to comply with the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Fluctuations in exchange rates could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, even if our underlying business results improve or remain steady. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, and we are exposed to foreign exchange rate risk because a significant portion of our net sales and costs are currently denominated in a number of foreign currencies, primarily Euros, Hong Kong dollars, Chinese renminbi and British pounds sterling, which we convert to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. We do not engage in any hedging activities with respect to currency fluctuations. Changes in exchange rates on the translation of the earnings in foreign currencies into U.S. dollars are directly reflected in our financial results. As such, to the extent the value of the U.S. dollar increases against these foreign currencies, it will negatively impact our net sales, even if our results of operations have improved or remained steady. While the currency of our net sales and costs are generally matched, to the extent our costs and net sales are not denominated in the same currency for a particular location, we could experience further exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations and may incur net foreign currency losses in the future. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health, harm our ability to react to changes to our business and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2010, we had total indebtedness of approximately $238.5 million. Based on that level of indebtedness and interest rates applicable at December 31, 2010, our annual interest expense would have been $10.0 million. Although we believe that our current cash flows will be sufficient to cover our annual interest expense, any increase in the amount of our indebtedness or any decline in the amount of cash available to make interest payments could require us to divert funds identified for other purposes for debt service and impair our liquidity position. Our indebtedness could also have other significant consequences. For example, it could: •increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion, if not all, of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate expenditures; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate, including our ability to build new facilities or acquire new equipment; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; •limit our ability to raise additional financing on satisfactory terms or at all; and 34 Table of Contents •adversely impact our ability to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our credit facilities, which could result in an event of default under such agreements. Increases in interest rates could increase interest payable under our variable rate indebtedness. We are subject to interest rate risk in connection with our variable rate indebtedness. Interest rate changes could increase the amount of our interest payments and thus negatively impact our future earnings and cash flows. We currently estimate that our annual interest expense on our floating rate indebtedness would increase by approximately $2.4 million, for each increase in interest rates of 1%. If we do not have sufficient earnings, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell more securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. Due to our interest rate swap expiring on September 30, 2010, we do not have any of our variable interest rate debt hedged. We do not plan to hedge our variable interest rate debt in the near term. Despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the agreements governing our credit facilities contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. For example, we had $20.0 million of borrowings available under our revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2010. If we incur additional debt above the levels currently in effect, the risks associated with our substantial leverage would increase. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund our operations will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Specific events that might adversely affect our cash flow include the loss of a key customer or declines in orders for our products or decreased use of our services. Accordingly, we may not be able to generate cash to service our indebtedness, which could lead to a default under our credit agreements and adversely affect our financial condition. We are a holding company with no business operations of our own and depend on our subsidiaries for cash. We are a holding company with no significant business operations of our own. Our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. Dividends from, and cash generated by, our subsidiaries are our principal sources of cash to repay indebtedness, fund operations and pay dividends, if any, which such payment is restricted under the terms of our credit facilities. Accordingly, our ability to repay our indebtedness, fund operations and pay any dividends to our stockholders is dependent on the earnings and the distributions of funds from our subsidiaries. The agreements governing our credit facilities significantly restrict our subsidiaries from paying dividends and otherwise transferring cash or other assets to us. In addition, our subsidiaries are permitted under the agreements governing our credit facilities to incur additional indebtedness that may severely restrict or prohibit the making of distributions, the payment of dividends or the making of loans by our subsidiaries to us. 35 Table of Contents Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our credit facilities may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. The agreements governing our credit facilities contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to pursue our business strategies or undertake actions that may be in our best interests. Our credit facilities include covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to: •incur or guarantee additional debt; •incur liens; •make loans and investments and complete acquisitions; •make capital expenditures; •declare or pay dividends, redeem or repurchase common stock, or make certain other restricted payments; •complete mergers, consolidations and dissolutions; •modify or prepay our second lien credit facility or other material subordinated indebtedness; •issue redeemable, convertible or exchangeable equity securities; •sell assets and engage in sale-leaseback transactions; •enter into transactions with affiliates; and •alter the nature of our business. Compliance with environmental and health and safety regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity, potentially significant liabilities and monetary damages and fines. We are required to comply with federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations regarding protection of the environment and health and safety. If more stringent laws and regulations are adopted in the future, the costs of compliance with these new laws and regulations could be substantial. If we do not comply with such present or future laws and regulations or related permits, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations. We use, generate and discharge hazardous substances, chemicals and wastes in our product development, testing and manufacturing activities. In addition, some of our facilities are located on properties with a history of use involving hazardous substances, chemicals and wastes and may be contaminated. For example, during 2010, we performed a Phase II environmental site assessment at our 10 Water Street, Enfield, Connecticut location. During our investigation, the site was found to contain a presence of volatile organic compounds. Any failure by us to control the use of, to remediate the presence of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of, such substances, chemicals or wastes could subject us to potentially significant liabilities, clean-up costs, monetary damages, fines or suspensions in our business operations. See "Item 1—Business—Environmental Regulation." We may undertake acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or other strategic alliances, which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business, and such undertakings may be unsuccessful. Acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances may expose us to new operational, regulatory, market and geographic risks as well as risks associated with additional capital requirements. These risks include: •our inability to integrate new operations, personnel, products, services and technologies; 36 Table of Contents •unforeseen or hidden liabilities, including exposure to lawsuits associated with newly acquired companies; •the diversion of resources from our existing businesses; •disagreement with joint venture or strategic alliance partners; •contravention of regulations governing cross-border investment; •failure to comply with laws and regulations, as well as industry or technical standards of the overseas markets into which we expand; •our inability to generate sufficient net sales to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions, strategic investments, joint venture or other strategic alliances; •potential loss of, or harm to, employees or customer relationships; •diversion of our management's time; and •disagreements as to whether opportunities belong to us or the joint venture. Any of these events could disrupt our ability to manage our business, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Such risks could also result in our failure to derive the intended benefits of the acquisitions, strategic investments, joint ventures or strategic alliances, and we may be unable to recover our investment in such initiatives. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock As a public company, we are subject to additional financial and other reporting and corporate governance requirements that may be difficult for us to satisfy. We have historically operated our business as a private company. Since the completion of our IPO, we are now required to file with the SEC annual and quarterly information and other reports that are specified in Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. We are required to ensure that we have the ability to prepare financial statements that are fully compliant with all SEC reporting requirements on a timely basis. We are also subject to other reporting and corporate governance requirements, including the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"), and certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the regulations promulgated thereunder, which impose significant compliance obligations upon us. Beginning in 2011, we will be considered an accelerated filer and our timing to file SEC financial statements will be shortened. In particular, our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q will be due within 40 days following the end of each fiscal quarter compared to within 45 days in 2010. We will also be required to comply with the SEC requirement to file our financial statements in extensible business reporting language ("XBRL") which is a computer language for electronic communication of business and financial data. We may not be successful in implementing these requirements and implementing them could adversely affect our business or operating results. In addition, if we fail to implement the requirements with respect to our internal accounting and audit functions, our ability to report our operating results on a timely and accurate basis could be impaired. We have implemented the standards required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("Section 404"), and failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 could have a material adverse effect on us. We have documented and tested our internal control procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404, which requires an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If, as a public company, we are not able to maintain adequate 37 Table of Contents compliance with the requirements of Section 404 in future years, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis, may suffer adverse regulatory consequences or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules and may breach the covenants under our credit facilities. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Insiders have substantial control over us, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. Our principal stockholders, directors and executive officers and entities affiliated with them owned approximately 33% of the outstanding shares of our common stock at December 31, 2010. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, would be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. In addition, we have elected to opt out of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a "business combination" with an "interested stockholder," and we will be able to enter into such transactions with our principal stockholders. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our Company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our Company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. We expect that our stock price may continue to fluctuate significantly, which could cause the value of your investment to decline, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the applicable purchase price. Securities markets worldwide have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. The trading price of our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to wide price fluctuations in response to various factors, including: •market conditions in the broader stock market; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial and operating results; •introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; •issuance of new or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations; •investor perceptions of us and the solar energy industry or quality assurance industry; •sales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our stock; •additions or departures of key personnel; •regulatory or political developments; •litigation and governmental investigations; and •changing economic conditions. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, 38 Table of Contents when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. If a substantial number of shares are sold in a short period of time, the market price of our common stock could decline. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that such stockholders might sell shares of common stock could also depress the market price of our common stock. As of March 7, 2011, we had 41,507,247 shares of our common stock outstanding, some of which is subject to vesting. Our directors, executive officers and affiliates hold 13,764,764 of these shares. Subject to Rule 144 holding periods and vesting, these shares are eligible for sale in the public market. A decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our stock or if our results of operations do not meet their expectations, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our Company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, or if our results of operations do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline. Some provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter third parties from acquiring us and diminish the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide for, among other things: •restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to call a special meeting and the business that can be conducted at such meeting; •restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to remove a director or fill a vacancy on the board of directors; •our ability to issue preferred stock with terms that the board of directors may determine, without stockholder approval; •the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors; •a prohibition of action by written consent of stockholders unless such action is recommended by all directors then in office; and •advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations. These provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change of control of our Company that is in the best interest of our minority stockholders. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging future takeover attempts. 39 Table of Contents We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, for the foreseeable future, to repay indebtedness and to fund the development and growth of our business. We do not intend to pay any dividends to holders of our common stock and the agreements governing our credit facilities restrict our payment of dividends. As a result, capital appreciation in the price of our common stock, if any, will be your only source of gain on an investment in our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation contains a provision renouncing our interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities. Our certificate of incorporation provides for the allocation of certain corporate opportunities between us and DLJ Merchant Banking Partners IV, L.P. and its affiliated investment funds, or DLJMB. Under these provisions, neither DLJMB, its affiliates and subsidiaries, nor any of their officers, directors, agents, stockholders, members or partners will have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. For instance, a director of our Company who also serves as a director, officer or employee of DLJMB or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates may pursue certain acquisition or other opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, such acquisition or other opportunities may not be available to us. These potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects if attractive corporate opportunities are allocated by DLJMB to itself or its subsidiaries or affiliates instead of to us. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 