Risk Factors The exploration, development and mining of natural resources are highly speculative in nature and are subject to significant risks. The risk factors noted below do not necessarily comprise all those faced by our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business, activities and future prospects. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business may be harmed and our financial condition and results of operations may suffer significantly. Industry Risks Mineral resource exploration is a high risk, speculative business. Mineral resource exploration is a speculative business, characterized by a high number of failures. Substantial expenditures are required to discover new properties and, where warranted, to develop the infrastructure, mining and processing facilities at any site chosen for mining. Most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable ore deposits and no assurance can be given that any particular level of recovery or mineral reserves will in fact be realized by us or that any identified mineral deposit identified by us will ever qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) ore body which can be economically and lawfully exploited. -13- Metal prices have fluctuated widely in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future which may adversely affect our ability to finance activities and may adversely affect the amount of revenues derived from any future production at our properties. The commercial feasibility of our properties and our ability to arrange funding to conduct our planned exploration activities is dependent on, among other things, the price of REE. Depending on the price of REE, we may determine that it is impractical to commence or continue exploration or other activities on our mineral claims. A reduction in the price of REE may prevent our mineral claims from being economically explored or result in the write-off of assets whose value is impaired as a result of low REE prices. The prices of REE fluctuate and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including, among others: · international economic and political conditions, · expectations of inflation or deflation, · international currency exchange rates, · interest rates, · global or regional consumptive patterns, · speculative activities, · levels of supply and demand, · increased production due to new mine developments, · decreased production due to mine closures, · improved mining and production methods, · availability and costs of REE substitutes, · inventory levels of REE maintained by producers and others, and · inventory carrying costs. The effect of these factors on the price of REE cannot be accurately predicted. If the price of REE decreases, the value of our assets would be materially and adversely effected, thereby materially and adversely impacting the value and price of our securities. Exploration activities are subject to geologic uncertainty and inherent variability. There is inherent variability between duplicate samples taken adjacent to each other and between sampling points that cannot be reasonably eliminated. There may also be unknown geologic details that have not been identified or correctly appreciated at the current level of delineation. This results in uncertainties that cannot be reasonably eliminated from the estimation process. Some of the resulting variances can have a positive effect and others can have a negative effect on mining and processing operations. Increased operating and capital costs may adversely affect the viability of existing and proposed mining projects. Increases in the prices of labour and materials, to some extent caused by an increase in commodity prices, including the prices of the REE being mined by the industry, may lead to significantly increased capital and operating costs for mining projects. Increasing costs are a factor that must be built in to the economic model for any mining project. Significant increases in operating costs have had the effect of reducing profit margins for some mining projects. Accordingly increases in both operating and capital costs need to be factored into economic assessments of existing and proposed mining projects and may increase the financing requirements for such projects or render such projects uneconomic. -14- Company Risks We are an exploration stage company with limited financial resources and if we are unable to secure additional funding and/or if our exploration programs are unsuccessful, our company may fail. Mineral exploration involves significant risk and few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. Substantial expenditures may be required to establish ore reserves through drilling, to develop metallurgical processes to extract the metals from the ore and to construct the mining and processing facilities at any site chosen for mining. Current exploration programs may not result in any commercial mining operation. Our interests in unproved mineral claims are without a known body of commercial ore and the proposed programs are an exploratory search for ore. We are presently carrying out exploration with the objective of establishing an economic body of ore. If our exploration programs are successful, additional funds will be required for the development of an economic ore body and to place it into commercial production. The only sources of future funds presently available to us are from the sale of equity capital, the exercise of warrants and options or the offering by us of an interest in our mineral claims to another party or parties. If we are unable to secure additional funding, we may lose our interest in one or more of our mineral claims and/or may be required to cease operations. Our management lacks team lacks technical training and/or experience in starting and operating mines. The officers, and certain directors, of our company have experience as officers and/or directors of public companies engaged in mineral exploration activities. Our management are involved in exploration activity supervision and direction, although we use contract engineering firms to directly conduct exploration activities. However, our management lacks technical training and experience with starting or operating a mine. As a result, their decisions and choices may not take into account standard engineering or managerial approaches that other mining companies commonly use, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition if we mature beyond the exploration stage. Consequently, our activities, earnings, and ultimate financial success could be negatively impacted due to management’s lack of experience in the mining industry, which could ultimately negatively impact the value of our investment in our properties. Because we have limited financial resources and have not generated any revenue from our operations, we may not be able to continue our operations and an investment in our securities may be worthless. We have limited financial resources, have a history of losses and have no source of operating cash flow. We have not generated any revenues from our mineral claims and do not anticipate any in the foreseeable future. Additional funding may not be available to us for further exploration of our mineral claims. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in delay or indefinite postponement of further exploration of our projects with the possible loss of such interests. Historically, the only source of funds available to us has been through the sale of our common shares. As of August 31, 2013, we held $5,601,492 in cash and had working capital of $5,094,986. We will need to raise additional capital to fund further exploration activities. We may not be able to raise the necessary funds, if any, and may not be able to raise such funds at terms which are acceptable to us. In the event we are unable to raise adequate finances to fund our proposed activities, we may have to abandon one or more of our projects. Any further additional equity financing we undertake may cause dilution to our shareholders. We have a limited history as an exploration company and do not have any experience in putting a mining project into production. We do not hold any mineral reserves and do not generate any revenues from production. Our success will depend largely upon our ability to locate and develop commercially viable mineral reserves, which may never happen. Further, putting a mining project into production requires substantial planning and expenditures and we do not have any experience in taking a mining project to production. As a result of these factors, it is difficult to evaluate our prospects, and our future success is more uncertain than if we had a longer or more proven history. -15- We have operated at a loss since inception, expect to continue to incur losses and may never achieve profitability, which in turn may harm our future operating performance and may cause the market price of our common shares to decline. We have incurred net losses every year since our inception on August 29, 2007, and as of August 31, 2013 had an accumulated deficit of $16,034,024. We incurred a net loss of $3,481,242 for the year ended August 31, 2013 and $6,109,313 for the year ended August 31, 2012. We currently have no commercial production and have never recorded any revenues from mining operations. We expect to continue to incur losses, and will continue to do so until such time, if ever, as our properties commence commercial production and generate sufficient revenues to fund continuing operations. The development of new exploration or, if warranted, mining operations will require the commitment of substantial resources for operating expenses and capital expenditures, which may increase in subsequent years as we add, as needed, consultants, personnel and equipment associated with advancing exploration, development and commercial production of our properties. The amounts and timing of expenditures will depend on the progress of ongoing exploration and development, the results of consultants’ analyses and recommendations, the rate at which operating losses are incurred, the execution of any joint venture or other agreements with others in the future, our acquisition of additional properties, and other factors, many of which are unknown today and may be beyond our control. We may never generate any revenues or achieve profitability. If we do not achieve profitability we will have to raise additional funds through future financings or shut down our operations. Our mining lease with respect to the Norra Kärr Project is currently under appeal and the loss of such mining lease would prevent us from developing the Norra Kärr Project. Our ability to develop the Norra Kärr project requires us to hold a valid exploitation concession (referred to in this annual report as a “mining lease”). See “