Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks. These risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our common stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. These risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under “Forward-Looking Statements” and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this Report. Risk factors related to our business and industry Demand for our products is significantly affected by unpredictable major power-outage events that can lead to substantial variations in, and uncertainties regarding, our financial results from period to period. Sales of our products are subject to consumer buying patterns, and demand for our products is affected by power outage events caused by thunderstorms, hurricanes, ice storms, blackouts and other grid reliability issues. The impact of these outage events on our sales can vary depending on the location and severity of the outages. Sustained periods without major power disruptions can lead to reduced consumer awareness of the benefits of standby and portable generator products and can result in reduced sales growth rates and excess inventory. The lack of major power-outage events can affect our net sales in the years following a given storm season. Unpredictable fluctuations in demand are therefore part of managing our business, and these fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our net sales and profits. Despite their unpredictable nature, we believe major power outages create awareness and accelerate adoption for our home standby products. 8 Table of Contents Demand for our products is significantly affected by durable goods spending by consumers and businesses and other macroeconomic conditions. Our business is affected by general economic conditions, and uncertainty or adverse changes such as the prolonged downturn in U.S. residential investment and the impact of more stringent credit standards could lead to a decline in demand for our products and pressure to reduce our prices. Our sales of light-commercial and industrial generators are affected by conditions in the non-residential construction sector and by the capital investment trends for small and large businesses and municipalities. If these businesses and municipalities cannot access credit markets or do not utilize discretionary funds to purchase our products as a result of the economy or other factors, our business could suffer and our ability to realize benefits from our strategy of increasing sales in the light-commercial and industrial sectors through, among other things, our focus on innovation and product development, including natural gas engine and modular technology, could be adversely affected. In addition, consumer confidence and home remodeling expenditures have a significant impact on sales of our residential products, and prolonged periods of weakness in consumer durable goods spending could have a material impact on our business. Typically, we do not have contracts with our customers, and we cannot guarantee that our current customers will continue to purchase our products. If general economic conditions or consumer confidence were to worsen, or if the non-residential construction sector or rate of capital investments were to decline, our net sales and profits would likely be adversely affected. Additionally, timing of capital spending by our national account customers can vary from quarter-to-quarter based on capital availability and internal capital spending budgets. Decreases in the availability and quality, or increases in the cost, of raw materials and key components we use could materially reduce our earnings. The principal raw materials that we use to produce our products are steel, copper and aluminum. We also source a significant number of component parts from third parties that we utilize to manufacture our products. The prices of those raw materials and components are susceptible to significant fluctuations due to trends in supply and demand, transportation costs, government regulations and tariffs, price controls, economic conditions and other unforeseen circumstances beyond our control. We do not have long-term supply contracts in place to ensure the raw materials and components we use are available in necessary amounts or at fixed prices. If we are unable to mitigate raw material or component price increases through product design improvements, price increases to our customers, manufacturing productivity improvements, or hedging transactions, our profitability could be adversely affected. Also, our ability to continue to obtain quality materials and components is subject to the continued reliability and viability of our suppliers, including in some cases, suppliers who are the sole source of certain important components. If we are unable to obtain adequate, cost efficient or timely deliveries of required raw materials and components, we may be unable to manufacture sufficient quantities of products on a timely basis. This could cause us to lose sales, incur additional costs, delay new product introductions or suffer harm to our reputation. The industry in which we compete is highly competitive, and our failure to compete successfully could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in markets that are highly competitive. Some of our competitors have established brands and are larger in size or are divisions of large diversified companies and have substantially greater financial resources. Some of our competitors may be willing to reduce prices and accept lower margins in order to compete with us. In addition, we could face new competition from large international or domestic companies with established industrial brands that enter our end markets. Demand for our products may also be affected by our ability to respond to changes in design and functionality, to respond to downward pricing pressure, and to provide shorter lead times for our products than our competitors. If we are unable to respond successfully to these competitive pressures, we could lose market share, which could have an adverse impact on our results. For more information, see “Item 1—Business—Competition.” Our industry is subject to technological change, and our failure to continue developing new and improved products and to bring these products rapidly to market could have an adverse impact on our business. New products, or refinements and improvements of existing products, may have technical failures, their introduction may be delayed, they may have higher production costs than originally expected or they may not be accepted by our customers. If we are not able to anticipate, identify, develop and market high quality products in line with technological advancements that respond to changes in customer preferences, demand for our products could decline and our operating results could be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents We rely on independent dealers and distribution partners, and the loss of these dealers and distribution partners, or of any of our sales arrangements with significant private label, telecommunications, retail or equipment rental customers, would adversely affect our business. In addition to our direct sales force and manufacturer sales representatives, we depend on the services of independent distributors and dealers to sell our products and provide service and aftermarket support to our end customers. We also rely upon our distribution channels to drive awareness for our product categories and our brands. In addition, we sell our products to end users through private label arrangements with leading home equipment, electrical equipment and construction machinery companies, arrangements with top retailers and equipment rental companies, and our direct national accounts with telecommunications and industrial customers. Our distribution agreements and any contracts we have with large telecommunications, retail and other customers are typically not exclusive, and many of the distributors and customers with whom we do business offer products and services of our competitors. Impairment of our relationships with our distributors, dealers or large customers, loss of a substantial number of these distributors or dealers or of one or more large customers, or an increase in our distributors' or dealers' sales of our competitors' products to our customers or of our large customers' purchases of our competitors' products could materially reduce our sales and profits. Also, our ability to successfully realize our growth strategy is dependent in part on our ability to identify, attract and retain new distributors at all layers of our distribution platform, and we cannot be certain that we will be successful in these efforts. Our business could be negatively impacted if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or if third parties claim that we are in violation of their intellectual property rights. We view our intellectual property rights as important assets. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing and confidentiality agreements. These protections may not be adequate to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without our authorization, breaching any confidentiality agreements with us, copying or reverse engineering our products, or developing and marketing products that are substantially equivalent to or superior to our own. The unauthorized use of our intellectual property by others could reduce our competitive advantage and harm our business. If it became necessary for us to litigate to protect these rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly and we may not prevail. We cannot guarantee that any patents, issued or pending, will provide us with any competitive advantage or will not be challenged by third parties. Moreover, the expiration of our patents may lead to increased competition with respect to certain products. In addition, we cannot be certain that we do not or will not infringe third parties' intellectual property rights. Any such claim, even if it is without merit, may be expensive and time-consuming to defend, subject us to damages, cause us to cease making, using or selling certain products that incorporate the disputed intellectual property, require us to redesign our products, divert management time and attention and/or require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing arrangements. Furthermore, in connection with our sale of Generac Portable Products to the Beacon Group in 1998, we granted the Beacon Group an exclusive perpetual license for the use of the “Generac Portable Products” trademark in connection with the manufacture and sale of certain engine driven consumer products. This perpetual license was eventually transferred to Briggs and Stratton (Briggs) when the Beacon Group sold that business to Briggs. Currently, this trademark is not being used in commerce. However, in the event that the Beacon Group or Briggs use this trademark in the future, we could suffer competitive confusion and our business could be negatively impacted. Our operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and non-compliance with or liabilities under such laws and regulations could result in substantial costs, fines, sanctions and claims. Our operations are subject to a variety of foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations including those governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharges to water, noise, the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste and other materials. In addition, under federal and state environmental laws, we could be required to investigate, remediate and/or monitor the effects of the release or disposal of materials both at sites associated with past and present operations and at third-party sites where wastes generated by our operations were disposed. This liability may be imposed retroactively and whether or not we caused, or had any knowledge of, the existence of these materials and may result in our paying more than our fair share of the related costs. Violations of or liabilities under such laws and regulations could result in substantial costs, fines and civil or criminal proceedings or personal injury and workers' compensation claims. 10 Table of Contents Our products are subject to substantial government regulation. Our products are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory requirements governing, among other things, emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the federal Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, state regulatory agencies, such as CARB, and other regulatory agencies around the world. These laws are constantly evolving and many are becoming increasingly stringent. Changes in applicable laws or regulations, or in the enforcement thereof, could require us to redesign our products and could adversely affect our business or financial condition in the future. Developing and marketing products to meet such new requirements could result in substantial additional costs that may be difficult to recover in some markets. In some cases, we may be required to modify our projects or develop new products to comply with new regulations, particularly those relating to air emissions. For example, we were required to modify our spark-ignited air-cooled gaseous engines to comply with the 2011 EPA and CARB regulations, as well as the continued implementation of Tier 4 nonroad diesel engine changes associated with the Magnum acquisition. Typically, additional costs associated with significant compliance modifications are passed on to the market. While we have been able to meet previous deadlines, failure to comply with other existing and future regulatory standards could adversely affect our position in the markets we serve. We may incur costs and liabilities as a result of product liability claims. We face a risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury or other damage. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance coverage, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, or obtain insurance that will provide adequate coverage against potential claims. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for long periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. A significant unsuccessful product liability defense could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we believe our business depends on the strong brand reputation we have developed. If our reputation is damaged, we may face difficulty in maintaining our market share and pricing with respect to some of our products, which could reduce our sales and profitability. The loss of any key members of our senior management team or key employees could disrupt our operations and harm our business. Our success depends, in part, on the efforts of certain key individuals, including the members of our senior management team, who have significant experience in the power products industry. If, for any reason, our senior executives do not continue to be active in management, or if our key employees leave our company, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Failure to continue to attract these individuals at reasonable compensation levels could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and results of operations. Although we do not anticipate that we will have to replace any of these individuals in the near future, the loss of the services of any of our key employees could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. Disruptions caused by labor disputes or organized labor activities could harm our business. We may from time to time experience union organizing activities in our non-union facilities. Disputes with the current labor union or new union organizing activities could lead to work slowdowns or stoppages and make it difficult or impossible for us to meet scheduled delivery times for product shipments to our customers, which could result in loss of business. In addition, union activity could result in higher labor costs, which could harm our financial condition, results of operations and competitive position. We may experience material disruptions to our manufacturing operations. While we seek to operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities, a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our financial results. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: · equipment or information technology infrastructure failure; 11 Table of Contents · disruptions in the transportation infrastructure including roads, bridges, railroad tracks; · fires, floods, tornados, earthquakes, or other catastrophes; and · other operational problems. In addition, the vast majority of our manufacturing and production facilities are located in Wisconsin within a 100-mile radius. We could experience prolonged periods of reduced production due to unforeseen events occurring in or around our manufacturing facilities in Wisconsin. In the event of a business interruption at our Wisconsin facilities, we may be unable to shift manufacturing capabilities to alternate locations, accept materials from suppliers or meet customer shipment needs, among other severe consequences. Such an event could have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and results of our operations. A significant portion of our purchased components are sourced in foreign countries, exposing us to additional risks that may not exist in the United States. We source a significant portion of our purchased components overseas, primarily in Asia and Europe. Our international sourcing subjects us to a number of potential risks in addition to the risks associated with third-party sourcing generally. Such risks include: · inflation or changes in political and economic conditions; · unstable regulatory environments; · changes in import and export duties; · domestic and foreign customs and tariffs; · currency rate fluctuations; · trade restrictions; · labor unrest; · logistical and communications challenges; and · other restraints and burdensome taxes. These factors may have an adverse effect on our ability to efficiently and cost effectively source our purchased components overseas. In particular, if the U.S. dollar were to depreciate significantly against the currencies in which we purchase raw materials from foreign suppliers, our cost of goods sold could increase materially, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 12 Table of Contents As a U.S. corporation that sources components in foreign countries, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. A determination that we violated this act may affect our business and operations adversely. As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the regulations imposed by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. We have significant tax assets, usage of which may be subject to limitations in the future. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $127.1 million of net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Any subsequent accumulations of common stock ownership leading to a change of control under Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, including through sales of stock by large stockholders, all of which are outside of our control, could limit and defer our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future federal income tax liabilities. Our total assets include goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangibles. If we determine these have become impaired in the future, net income could be materially adversely affected. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. Indefinite-lived intangibles are comprised of certain trade names. At December 31, 2011, goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangibles totaled $695.9 million, most of which arose from the CCMP Transactions. We review goodwill and other intangibles at least annually for impairment and any excess in carrying value over the estimated fair value is charged to the results of operations. A reduction in net income resulting from the write-down or impairment of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangibles, such as the $9.4 million non-cash charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011 primarily related to the write down of a certain trade name as we strategically transition to the Generac brand, could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition. In accordance with FASB ASC (Accounting Standards Codification) Topic 350-20, goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles are reviewed at least annually for impairment and definite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Future impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of the acquired business or product line, adverse market conditions and changes in the competitive landscape, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business or product line, and a variety of other circumstances. The amount of any impairment is recorded as a charge to the statement of operations. We may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of intangible assets would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for details. We may need additional capital to finance our growth strategy or to refinance our existing credit facilities, and we may not be able to obtain it on acceptable terms, or at all, which may limit our ability to grow. We may require additional financing to expand our business. Financing may not be available to us or may be available to us only on terms that are not favorable. The terms of our senior secured credit facilities limit our ability to incur additional debt. In addition, economic conditions, including a downturn in the credit markets, could impact our ability to finance our growth on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds or obtain capital on acceptable terms, we may have to delay, modify or abandon some or all of our growth strategies. In February 2012, we completed the planned refinancing of our former credit facility, and the new credit facility is comprised of a $150 million unfunded Revolver, a $325 million Term Loan A and $250 million Term Loan B. The Revolver and Term Loan A both have a five (5) year term, with interest payable on a leveraged-based pricing grid starting at LIBOR plus 2.25%. The Term Loan B matures in seven (7) years and accrues interest at LIBOR plus 2.75% with a LIBOR floor of 1.0%. For more information regarding the refinance of our credit facility see “Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – “16. Subsequent Events.” In the future, if we are unable to refinance such facilities on acceptable terms, our liquidity could be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents We are unable to determine the specific impact of changes in selling prices or changes in volumes of our products on our net sales. Because of the wide range of products that we sell, the level of customization for many of our products, the frequent rollout of new products and the fact that we do not apply pricing changes uniformly across our entire portfolio of products, we are unable to determine with specificity the effect of volume changes or changes in selling prices on our net sales. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of the Magnum Products business or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. We may also encounter significant unexpected difficulties in integrating the two businesses. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Magnum Products acquisition, which was consummated on October 3, 2011, will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the Magnum Products business with our business. The combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of the Magnum Products business with ours. The integration process may disrupt our business and, if implemented ineffectively, would preclude realization of the full benefits expected by us. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the Magnum Products business into our existing operations or otherwise to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our activities and could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of the Magnum Products business may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and diversion of management's attention, and may cause our stock price to decline. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: · managing a larger company; · maintaining employee morale and retaining key management and other employees; · integrating two business cultures, which may prove to be incompatible; · the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding the integration process; · retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; · consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations; · the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business concerns and performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of management's attention to the acquisition; · unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems; · unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; · managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined company; · unforeseen expenses or delays associated with the acquisition; · difficulty comparing financial reports due to differing financial and/or internal reporting systems; and 14 Table of Contents · making any necessary modifications to internal financial control standards to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even if the operations of the Magnum Products business are integrated successfully with our operations, we may not realize the full benefits of the transaction, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that we expect. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Or, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of our businesses. All of these factors could cause dilution to our earnings per share, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the acquisition, and cause a decrease in the price of our common stock. As a result, we cannot assure you that the combination of the Magnum Products business with our business will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the transaction. Risks related to our common stock If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our common stock or if our results of operations do not meet their expectations, our common stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade recommendations regarding our stock, or if our results of operations do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline and such decline could be material. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws could prohibit a change of control that our stockholders may favor and could negatively affect our stock price. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire control of us even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. These provisions could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws: · permit our board of directors to issue preferred stock with such terms as they determine, without stockholder approval; · provide that only one-third of the members of the board are elected at each stockholders meeting and prohibit removal without cause; · require advance notice for stockholder proposals and director nominations; and · contain limitations on convening stockholder meetings. These provisions make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to acquire us without negotiation and could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 15 Table of Contents Risks related to our capital structure We have a significant amount of indebtedness which could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our indebtedness. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011, we had total indebtedness of $597.9 million. As of February 9, 2012 our total indebtedness was further reduced to $575.0 million. While we reduced this amount of debt during 2010, 2011 and 2012 through the use of the proceeds of our IPO and of cash on hand, including an additional prepayment of debt of $74.2 million in December of 2010, $24.7 million in April of 2011, $34.6 million in December of 2011 and $22.9 million in February 2012 (as discussed elsewhere in this report under “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”), we still have a significant amount of indebtedness. Our significant level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our significant indebtedness, combined with our lease and other financial obligations and contractual commitments could have other important consequences. For example, it could: · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, including financial and other restrictive covenants, which could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness; · make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and · limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes. Any of the above-listed factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. While we maintain interest rate swaps covering a significant portion of our outstanding debt, our interest expense could increase if interest rates increase because debt under our senior secured credit facilities bears interest at a variable rate. If we do not have sufficient earnings to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. The terms of our senior secured credit facilities restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions. Our former senior secured credit facilities contained, and any future indebtedness of ours or our subsidiaries would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, including restrictions on our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best long-term interests. Our new senior secured credit facilities entered into on February 9, 2012 include certain financial covenants. The new credit facility requires Generac Power Systems to maintain a maximum leverage ratio (as defined in the senior secured credit facility) of 4.00 to 1.00 from the periods June 30, 2012 to September 30, 2012, and 3.75 to 1.00 thereafter. As of December 31, 2011, Generac Power Systems' leverage ratio was 2.83. In addition, the new credit facility requires Generac Power Systems to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio (as defined in the senior secured credit facility) of 2.50 to 1.00 from June 30, 2012 to September 30, 2012, 2.75 to 1.00 from December 31, 2012 to June 30, 2013, 3.00 to 1.00 from September 30, 2013 to June 30, 2014 and 3.25 to 1.00 thereafter. As of December 31, 2011, Generac Power Systems’ interest coverage ratio was 8.55. Failure to comply with such covenants would result in an event of default under our new senior secured credit facilities unless waived by our lenders. Our new senior secured credit facilities require us to use a portion of excess cash flow and proceeds of certain asset sales that are not reinvested in our business and other dispositions to repay indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities. 16 Table of Contents Our new senior secured credit facilities also include covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to: · incur liens; · incur or assume additional debt or guarantees or issue preferred stock; · pay dividends, or make redemptions and repurchases, with respect to capital stock; · prepay, or make redemptions and repurchases of, subordinated debt; · make loans and investments; · make capital expenditures; · engage in mergers, acquisitions, asset sales, sale/leaseback transactions and transactions with affiliates; · change the business conducted by us or our subsidiaries; and · amend the terms of subordinated debt. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our new senior secured credit facilities and any future financing agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. A breach of any of the restrictive covenants in our new senior secured credit facilities would result in a default under our new senior secured credit facilities. If any such default occurs, the lenders under our new senior secured credit facilities may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, or enforce their security interest, any of which would result in an event of default. The lenders will also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. Our principal stockholder continues to have substantial control over us. Affiliates of CCMP collectively beneficially own approximately 59.0% of our outstanding common stock. As a consequence, CCMP or its affiliates are able to exert a significant degree of influence or actual control over our management and affairs and will control matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and any other significant transaction. The interests of this stockholder may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of our other stockholders. For instance, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us otherwise favored by our other stockholders and could depress our stock price. Because affiliates of CCMP control more than 50% of the voting power of our common stock, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE's Listed Company Manual. Under the NYSE's Listed Company Manual, a controlled company may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including requirements that: (1) a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; (2) compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and (3) director nominees be selected or recommended by a majority of the independent directors or by a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. Because we have taken advantage of the controlled company exemption to certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. 17 Table of Contents Conflicts of interest may arise because some of our directors are principals of our principal stockholder. Representatives of CCMP and its affiliates occupy seats on our board of directors. CCMP or its affiliates could invest in entities that directly or indirectly compete with us or companies in which CCMP or its affiliates are currently invested may already compete with us. As a result of these relationships, when conflicts arise between the interests of CCMP or its affiliates and the interests of our stockholders, these directors may not be disinterested. The representatives of CCMP and its affiliates on our board of directors, by the terms of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, are not required to offer us any transaction opportunity of which they become aware and could take any such opportunity for themselves or offer it to other companies in which they have an investment, unless such opportunity is expressly offered to them solely in their capacity as our directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 