D. Risk Factors Prospects for companies in the pharmaceutical industry generally may be regarded as uncertain given the research and development nature of the industry and uncertainty regarding the prospects of successfully commercializing product candidates and, accordingly, investments in companies such as ours should be regarded as very speculative. An investor should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information contained in this annual report. The list of risks and uncertainties described below is not an exhaustive list. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any one or more of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Further, if we fail to meet the expectations of the public market in any given period, the market price of our common shares could decline. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, operating results, or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our activities entail significant risks. In addition to the usual risks associated with a business, the following is a general description of certain significant risk factors which may be applicable to us. Risks related to our Company Our business is capital intensive and requires significant investment to conduct research and development, clinical and regulatory activities necessary to bring our products to market, which capital may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our business requires substantial capital investment in order to conduct the research and development, clinical and regulatory activities necessary to bring our products to market and to establish commercial manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities. As of November 30, 2012, we had a cash balance of $0.5 million. As of December 31, 2012, our cash balance was $0.1 million. In order for us to continue operations at existing levels, we expect that for at least the next twelve months we will require significant additional capital. While we expect to satisfy our operating cash requirements over the next twelve months from cash on hand, collection of anticipated revenues resulting from future commercialization activities, development agreements or marketing license agreements, through managing operating expense levels, using funds from senior management through the convertible debenture described elsewhere herein, equity and/or debt financings, and/or new strategic partnership agreements funding some or all costs of development, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such capital on terms or in amounts sufficient to meet our needs or at all. The availability of equity or debt financing will be affected by, among other things, the results of our research and development, our ability to obtain regulatory approvals, the market acceptance of our products, the state of the capital markets generally, strategic alliance agreements, and other relevant commercial considerations. In addition, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our then existing security holders will likely experience dilution, and the incurring of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations. In the event that we do not obtain additional capital over the next twelve months, there may be substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and realize our assets and pay our liabilities as they become due. Any failure by the Company to raise additional funds on terms favorable to the Company, or at all, may require the Company to significantly change or curtail our current or planned operations in order to conserve cash until such time, if ever, that sufficient proceeds from operations are generated, and could result in our not taking advantage of business opportunities, in the termination or delay of clinical trials for one or more of our product candidates, in curtailment of our product development programs designed to identify new product candidates, in the sale or assignment of rights to our technologies, products or product candidates, and/or our inability to file abbreviated new drug applications (“ANDAs”) or new drug applications (“NDAs”) at all or in time to competitively market our products or product candidates. - 4 - Delays, suspensions and terminations in our preclinical studies and clinical trials could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to generate product revenues. The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in: · demonstrating sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; · reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and clinical trial sites; · manufacturing sufficient quantities of a drug candidate; · obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective clinical trial site; and · patient enrollment. Once a clinical trial has begun, it may be delayed, suspended or terminated due to a number of factors, including: · the number of patients that participate in the trial; · the length of time required to enroll suitable subjects; · the duration of patient follow-up; · the number of clinical sites included in the trial; · changes in regulatory requirements or regulatory delays or clinical holds requiring suspension or termination of the trials; · delays, suspensions or termination of clinical trials due to the institutional review board overseeing the study at a particular site; · failure to conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements; · unforeseen safety issues, including serious adverse events or side effects experienced by participants; and · inability to manufacture, through third party manufacturers, adequate supplies of the product candidate being tested. Based on results at any stage of product development, we may decide to repeat or redesign preclinical studies or clinical trials, conduct entirely new studies or discontinue development of products for one or all indications. In addition, our products may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy in pending or any future preclinical testing or clinical trials to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals. Even if such approvals are obtained for our products, they may not be accepted in the market as a viable alternative to other products already approved or pending approvals. If we experience delays, suspensions or terminations in a preclinical study or clinical trial, the commercial prospects for our products will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed or we may never be able to generate such revenues. - 5 - We have a history of operating losses, which may continue in the foreseeable future. We have incurred net losses from inception through November 30, 2012 had an accumulated deficit of $30.1 million as of such date and have incurred additional losses since such date. As we engage in the development of products in our pipeline, we will continue to incur further losses. There can be no assurance that we will ever be able to achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flow. Our ultimate success will depend on whether our drug formulations receive the approval of the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) or other applicable regulatory agencies and we are able to successfully market approved products. We cannot be certain that we will be able to receive FDA approval for any of our drug formulations, or that we will reach the level of sales and revenues necessary to achieve and sustain profitability. Loss of key scientists and failure to attract qualified personnel could limit our growth and negatively impact our operations. We are dependent upon the scientific expertise of Dr. Isa Odidi, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Dr. Amina Odidi, our President and Chief Operating Officer. Although we employ other qualified scientists, Drs. Isa and Amina Odidi are our only employees with the knowledge and experience necessary for us to continue development of controlled-release products. We do not maintain key-person life insurance on any of our officers or employees. Although we have employment agreements with key members of our management team, each of our employees may terminate his or her employment at any time. The success of our business depends, in large part, on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, scientific, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel, on our ability to successfully integrate many new employees, and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading research and medical institutions and key distributors. If we lose the services of our executive officers or other qualified personnel or are unable to attract and retain qualified individuals to fill these roles or develop key relationships, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our intellectual property may not provide meaningful protection for our product candidates. We hold certain U.S., Canadian and foreign patents and have pending applications for additional patents outstanding. We intend to continue to seek patent protection for, or maintain as trade secrets, all of our commercially promising drug delivery platforms and technologies. Our success depends, in part, on our and our collaborative partners’ ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for new product candidates, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Without patent and other similar protection, other companies could offer substantially identical products without incurring sizeable development costs which could diminish our ability to recover expenses of and realize profits on our developed products. If our pending patent applications are not approved, or if we are unable to obtain patents for additional developed technologies, the future protection for our technologies will remain uncertain. Furthermore, third parties may independently develop similar or alternative technologies, duplicate some or all of our technologies, design around our patented technologies or challenge our issued patents. Such third parties may have filed patent applications, or hold issued patents, relating to products or processes competitive with those we are developing or otherwise restricting our ability to do business in a particular area. If we are unable to obtain patents or otherwise protect our trade secrets or other intellectual property and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to intellectual property claims that could be costly and could disrupt our business. Third parties may claim we have infringed their patents, trademarks, copyrights or other rights. We may be unsuccessful in defending against such claims, which could result in the inability to protect our intellectual property rights or in substantial damages, fines or other penalties. The resolution of a claim could also require us to change how we do business or enter into burdensome royalty or license agreements. Insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover every claim that third parties could assert against us. Even unsuccessful claims could result in significant legal fees and other expenses, diversion of management’s time and disruptions in our business. Any of these claims could also harm our reputation. - 6 - We rely on maintaining as trade secrets our competitively sensitive know-how and other information. Intentional or unintentional disclosure of this information could impair our competitive position. As to many technical aspects of our business, we have concluded that competitively sensitive information is either not patentable or that for competitive reasons it is not commercially advantageous to seek patent protection. In these circumstances, we seek to protect this know-how and other proprietary information by maintaining it in confidence as a trade secret. To maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets, we generally enter into agreements that contain confidentiality provisions with our employees, consultants, collaborators, contract manufacturers and advisors upon commencement of their relationships with us. These provisions generally require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. We may not have these arrangements in place in all circumstances, and the confidentiality provisions in our favour may be breached. We may not become aware of, or have adequate remedies in the event of, any such breach. In addition, in some situations, the confidentiality provisions in our favour may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants, collaborators, contract manufacturers or advisors have previous employment or consulting relationships. To the extent that our employees, consultants, collaborators, contract manufacturers or advisors use trade secrets or know-how owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the ownership of relative inventions. Also, others may independently develop substantially equivalent trade secrets, processes and know-how, and competitors may be able to use this information to develop products that compete with our products, which could adversely impact our business. The disclosure of our trade secrets could impair our competitive position. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information. We operate in a highly litigious environment. From time to time, we are subject to legal proceedings. As of the date of this annual report, the Company is not aware of any material litigation pending or threatened against us other than as described under Item 8.A. below. Litigation to which we are, or may be, subject could relate to, among other things, our patent and other intellectual property rights, or such rights of others, business or licensing arrangements with other persons, product liability or financing activities. Such litigation could include an injunction against the manufacture or sale of one or more of our products or potential products or a significant monetary judgment, including a possible punitive damages award, or a judgment that certain of our patent or other intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable or infringe the intellectual property rights of others. If such litigation is commenced, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. There has been substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry concerning the manufacture, use and sale of new products that are the subject of conflicting patent rights. When we file an ANDA for a bioequivalent version of a drug, we may, in some circumstances, be required to certify to the FDA that any patent which has been listed with the FDA as covering the branded product has expired, the date any such patent will expire, or that any such patent is invalid or will not be infringed by the manufacture, sale or use of the new drug for which the application is submitted. Approval of an ANDA is not effective until each listed patent expires, unless the applicant certifies that the patents at issue are not infringed or are invalid and so notifies the patent holder and the holder of the branded product. A patent holder may challenge a notice of non-infringement or invalidity by suing for patent infringement within 45 days of receiving notice. Such a challenge prevents FDA approval for a period which ends 30 months after the receipt of notice, or sooner if an appropriate court rules that the patent is invalid or not infringed. From time to time, in the ordinary course of business, we face and have faced such challenges and may continue to do so in the future. Brand-name pharmaceutical manufacturers routinely bring patent infringement litigation against ANDA applicants seeking FDA approval to manufacture and market generic forms of their branded products. We are routinely subject to patent litigation that can delay or prevent our commercialization of products, force us to incur substantial expense to defend, and expose us to substantial liability. - 7 - We cannot ensure the availability of raw materials. Certain raw materials necessary for the development and subsequent commercial manufacture of our product candidates may be proprietary products of other companies. While we attempt to manage the risk associated with such proprietary raw materials, if our efforts fail, or if there is a material shortage, contamination, and/or recall of such materials, the resulting scarcity could adversely affect our ability to develop or manufacture our product candidates. In addition, many third party suppliers are subject to governmental regulation and, accordingly, we are dependent on the regulatory compliance of, as well as on the strength, enforceability and terms of our various contracts with, these third party suppliers. Further, the FDA requires identification of raw material suppliers in applications for approval of drug products. If raw materials are unavailable from a specified supplier, the supplier does not give us access to its technical information for our application or the supplier is not in compliance with FDA or other applicable requirements, FDA approval of the supplier could delay the manufacture of the drug involved. Any inability to obtain raw materials on a timely basis, or any significant price increases which cannot be passed on to customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our product candidates may not be successfully developed or commercialized. Successful development of our products is highly uncertain and is dependent on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. Products that appear promising in research or early phases of development may fail to reach later stages of development or the market for several reasons including: · for ANDA candidates, bioequivalence studies results may not meet regulatory requirements or guidelines for the demonstration of bioequivalence; · for NDA candidates, a product may not demonstrate acceptable large-scale clinical trial results, even though it demonstrated positive preclinical or initial clinical trial results; · for NDA candidates, a product may not be effective in treating a specified condition or illness; · a product may have harmful side effects on humans; · products may fail to receive the necessary regulatory approvals from the FDA or other regulatory bodies, or there may be delays in receiving such approvals; · difficulties may be encountered in formulating products, scaling up manufacturing processes or in getting approval for manufacturing; · manufacturing costs, pricing or reimbursement issues, other competitive therapeutics, or other commercial factors may make the product uneconomical; and · the proprietary rights of others, and their competing products and technologies, may prevent the product from being developed or commercialized. Further, success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that large-scale clinical trials will be successful, nor does success in preliminary studies for ANDA candidates ensure that bioequivalence studies will be successful. Results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. The length of time necessary to complete bioequivalence studies or clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. As a result, there can be no assurance that any of our products currently in development will ever be successfully commercialized. Near term revenue depends significantly on the success of our first filed ANDA (“lead”) product, our once daily dexmethylphenidate XR generic, regulatory approval for which has yet to be received. We have invested significant time and effort in the development of our lead product, our once daily generic dexmethylphenidate XR. Although it remains our most advanced product, it has not yet received regulatory approval, and there can be no assurance as to when or if such regulatory approval will be received. We depend significantly on the actions of our development partner Par Pharmaceutical, Inc. (“Par”) in the prosecution, regulatory approval and commercialization of our generic dexmethylphenidate XR product. Our near term ability to generate significant revenue will depend upon receipt of regulatory approval and successful commercialization of this product in the United States, where the branded Focalin XR® product is in the market. Although we have several other products in our pipeline, they are at earlier stages of development. - 8 - Our significant expenditures on research and development may not lead to successful product introductions. We conduct research and development primarily to enable us to manufacture and market pharmaceuticals in accordance with FDA regulations. Typically, research expenses related to the development of innovative compounds and the filing of NDAs are significantly greater than those expenses associated with ANDAs. As we continue to develop new products, our research expenses will likely increase. We are required to obtain FDA approval before marketing our drug products and the approval process is costly and time consuming. Because of the inherent risk associated with research and development efforts in our industry, particularly with respect to new drugs, our research and development expenditures may not result in the successful introduction of FDA approved new pharmaceuticals. We may not have the ability to develop or license, or otherwise acquire, and introduce new products on a timely basis. Product development is inherently risky, especially for new drugs for which safety and efficacy have not been established and the market is not yet proven. Likewise, product licensing involves inherent risks including uncertainties due to matters that may affect the achievement of milestones, as well as the possibility of contractual disagreements with regard to terms such as license scope or termination rights. The development and commercialization process, particularly with regard to new drugs, also requires substantial time, effort and financial resources. The process of obtaining FDA or other regulatory approval to manufacture and market new and generic pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time consuming, costly and largely unpredictable. We, or a partner, may not be successful in obtaining FDA or other required regulatory approval or in commercializing any of the products that we are developing or licensing. We may not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we announce and expect. We set goals regarding the expected timing of meeting certain corporate objectives, such as the commencement and completion of clinical trials, anticipated regulatory approval and product launch dates. From time to time, we may make certain public statements regarding these goals. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to, among other things, insufficient funding, delays or failures in our clinical trials or bioequivalence studies, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process, such as requests for additional information, delays in achieving manufacturing or marketing arrangements necessary to commercialize our product candidates and failure by our collaborators, marketing and distribution partners, suppliers and other third parties to fulfill contractual obligations. Our products may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance, thereby limiting our potential to generate revenue. Even if we are able to obtain regulatory approvals for our proposed products, the success of those products will be dependent upon market acceptance. Levels of market acceptance for any products to be marketed by us could be affected by several factors, including: · the availability of alternative products from competitors; · the prices of our products relative to those of our competitors; · the timing of our market entry; · the ability to market our products effectively at the retail level; and · the acceptance of our products by government and private formularies. - 9 - Some of these factors are not within our control, and our proposed products may not achieve levels of market acceptance anticipated by us. Additionally, continuing and increasingly sophisticated studies of the proper utilization, safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products are being conducted by the industry, government agencies and others which can call into question the utilization, safety and efficacy of products we are currently developing or may develop in the future. These studies could also impact a future product after it has been marketed. In some cases, studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of product marketing or requirement of other risk management programs such as the need for a patient registry. The failure of our product candidates, once approved, to achieve market acceptance would limit our ability to generate revenue and would adversely affect our results of operations. The risks and uncertainties inherent in conducting clinical trials could delay or prevent the development and commercialization of our own branded products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition, and growth prospects. There are a number of risks and uncertainties associated with clinical trials, which may be exacerbated by our relatively limited experience in conducting and supervising clinical trials and preparing NDAs. The results of initial clinical trials may not be indicative of results that would be obtained from large scale testing. Clinical trials are often conducted with patients having advanced stages of disease and, as a result, during the course of treatment these patients can die or suffer adverse medical effects for reasons that may not be related to the pharmaceutical agents being tested, but which nevertheless affect the clinical trial results. In addition, side effects experienced by the patients may cause delay of approval of our product or a limited application of an approved product. Moreover, our clinical trials may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain FDA approval. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process and, in addition, the results from early clinical trials may not be predictive of results obtained in later and larger clinical trials, and product candidates in later clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety or efficacy despite having progressed successfully through earlier clinical testing. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even in advanced clinical trials after showing positive results in earlier clinical trials. In the future, the completion of clinical trials for our product candidates may be delayed or halted for many reasons, including those relating to the following: · delays in patient enrollment, and variability in the number and types of patients available for clinical trials; · regulators or institutional review boards may not allow us to commence or continue a clinical trial; · our inability, or the inability of our partners, to manufacture or obtain from third parties materials sufficient to complete our clinical trials; · delays or failures in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical trial contracts or clinical trial protocols with prospective clinical trial sites; · risks associated with trial design, which may result in a failure of the trial to show statistically significant results even if the product candidate is effective; · difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment commences, resulting in incomplete data; · poor effectiveness of product candidates during clinical trials; · safety issues, including adverse events associated with product candidates; · the failure of patients to complete clinical trials due to adverse side effects, dissatisfaction with the product candidate, or other reasons; · governmental or regulatory delays or changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines; and · varying interpretation of data by the FDA or other applicable foreign regulatory agencies. - 10 - In addition, our product candidates could be subject to competition for clinical study sites and patients from other therapies under development by other companies which may delay the enrolment in or initiation of our clinical trials. Many of these companies have significantly more resources than we do. The FDA or other foreign regulatory authorities may require us to conduct unanticipated additional clinical trials, which could result in additional expense and delays in bringing our product candidates to market. Any failure or delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates would prevent or delay the commercialization of our product candidates. There can be no assurance our expenses related to clinical trials will lead to the development of brand-name drugs which will generate revenues in the near future. Delays or failure in the development and commercialization of our own branded products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition, and our growth prospects. We rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates, and if they do not properly and successfully perform their legal and regulatory obligations, as well as their contractual obligations to us, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates. We design the clinical trials for our product candidates, but rely on contract research organizations and other third parties to assist us in managing, monitoring and otherwise carrying out these trials, including with respect to site selection, contract negotiation and data management. We do not control these third parties and, as a result, they may not treat our clinical studies as their highest priority, or in the manner in which we would prefer, which could result in delays. Although we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with our general investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. The FDA enforces good clinical practices through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If we, our contract research organizations or our study sites fail to comply with applicable good clinical practices, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. There can be no assurance that, upon inspection, the FDA will determine that any of our clinical trials comply with good clinical practices. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product manufactured under the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices (“cGMP”) regulations. Our failure, or the failure of our contract manufacturers, if any are involved in the process, to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process. If third parties do not successfully carry out their duties under their agreements with us; if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements; or if they otherwise fail to comply with clinical trial protocols or meet expected deadlines, our clinical trials may not meet regulatory requirements. If our clinical trials do not meet regulatory requirements or if these third parties need to be replaced, such clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. Competition in our industry is intense, and developments by other companies could render our product candidates obsolete. Many of our competitors, including medical technology, pharmaceutical or biotechnology and other companies, universities, government agencies, or research organizations, have substantially greater financial and technical resources and production and marketing capabilities than we have. They also may have greater experience in conducting bioequivalence studies, preclinical testing and clinical trials of pharmaceutical products, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals, and ultimately commercializing any approved products. Therefore, our competitors may succeed in developing and commercializing technologies and products that are more effective than the drug delivery technologies we are developing or that will cause our technologies or products to become obsolete or non-competitive, and in obtaining FDA approval for products faster than we could. These developments could render our products obsolete and uncompetitive, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we commence commercial sales of our products, we will be competing against the greater manufacturing efficiency and marketing capabilities of our competitors, areas in which we have limited or no experience. - 11 - We rely on collaborative arrangements with third parties that provide manufacturing and/or marketing support for some or all of our product candidates. Even if we find a potential partner, we may not be able to negotiate an arrangement on favourable terms or achieve results that we consider satisfactory. In addition, such arrangements can be terminated under certain conditions and do not assure a product’s success. We also face intense competition for collaboration arrangements with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Although we believe that our ownership of patents for some of our drug delivery products will limit direct competition with these products, we must also compete with established existing products and other promising technologies and other products and delivery alternatives that may be more effective than our products and proposed products. In addition, we may not be able to compete effectively with other commercially available products or drug delivery technologies. We have not received regulatory approval for any product that uses our drug delivery technologies. Our drug delivery technologies can be quite complex, with many different components. The development required to take a technology from its earliest stages to its incorporation in a product that is sold commercially can take many years and cost a substantial amount of money. Significant technical challenges are common as products incorporating our technologies progress through development, particularly in the first product candidate incorporating a new technology. Our Rexista™ product for an abuse-deterrent form of oxycodone is one such new technology. No product employing our abuse deterrent technology has received regulatory approval. In addition, any particular technology such as our abuse-deterrent technology may not perform in the same manner when used with different therapeutic agents, and therefore this technology may not prove to be as useful or valuable as originally thought, resulting in additional development work. If our efforts do not repeatedly lead to successful development of product candidates, we may not be able to grow our pipeline or to enter into agreements with marketing and distribution partners or collaborators that are willing to distribute or develop our product candidates. Delays or unanticipated increases in costs of development at any stage, or failure to solve a technical challenge, could adversely affect our operating results. If contract manufacturers fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our concerns, or if their performance is substandard, the commercialization of our products could be delayed or prevented, and this may result in higher costs or deprive us of potential product revenues. We rely on contract manufacturers for certain components and ingredients of our clinical trial materials, such as active pharmaceutical ingredients (“APIs”), and we may rely on such manufacturers for commercial sales purposes as well. Our reliance on contract manufacturers in these respects will expose us to several risks which could delay or prevent the commercialization of our products, result in higher costs, or deprive us of potential product revenues, including: · Difficulties in achieving volume production, quality control and quality assurance, or technology transfer, as well as with shortages of qualified personnel; · The failure to establish and follow cGMP and to document adherence to such practices; · The need to revalidate manufacturing processes and procedures in accordance with FDA and other nationally mandated cGMPs and potential prior regulatory approval upon a change in contract manufacturers; · Failure to perform as agreed or to remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to produce, store and distribute our products successfully; · The potential for an untimely termination or non-renewal of contracts; and - 12 - · The potential for us to be in breach of our collaboration and marketing and distribution arrangements with third parties for the failure of our contract manufacturers to perform their obligations to us. In addition, drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMP and other government regulations. While we may audit the performance of third-party contractors, we will not have complete control over their compliance with these regulations and standards. Failure by either our third-party manufacturers or by us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of applicable regulatory authorities to grant review of submissions or market approval of drugs, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, product seizures or recalls, operating restrictions, facility closures and criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. We are subject to currency rate fluctuations that may impact our financial results. A large majority of our expenses are payable in Canadian dollars and our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars. There may be instances where we have net foreign currency exposure. Any fluctuations in exchange rates will impact our financial results. We have limited sales, marketing and distribution experience. We have limited experience in the sales, marketing, and distribution of pharmaceutical products. There can be no assurance that, if required, we would be able to establish sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with our collaborators, licensees, or others to perform such activities or that such efforts would be successful. If we fail to establish successful marketing and sales capabilities or to make arrangements with third parties, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Our significant shareholders will have the ability to exercise significant influence over certain corporate actions. Our principal shareholders, Drs. Amina and Isa Odidi, our President and Chief Operating Officer and our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, respectively, and Odidi Holdings Inc., a privately-held company controlled by Drs. Amina and Isa Odidi, owned in the aggregate approximately 33.5% of our issued and outstanding common shares as of the date of this annual report (and collectively beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 40.8% of our common shares, including common shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding options and the conversion of the convertible debenture held by Drs. Amina and Isa Odidi that are exercisable or convertible within 60 days of the date hereof). As a result, the principal shareholders will have the ability to exercise significant influence over all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval whether subject to approval by a majority of holders of our common shares or subject to a class vote or special resolution requiring the approval of 66⅔% of the votes cast by holders of our common shares, in person or by proxy. Our effective tax rate may vary. Various internal and external factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our future effective tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in tax laws, regulations and/or rates, changing interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations, future levels of research and development spending, the availability of tax credit programs for the reimbursement of all or a significant proportion of research and development spending, and changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings. At present, we qualify in Canada for certain research tax credits for qualified scientific research and experimental development pertaining to our drug delivery technologies and drug products in research stages. If Canadian tax laws relating to research tax credits were substantially negatively altered or eliminated, or if a substantial portion of our claims for tax credits were denied by the relevant taxing authorities, pursuant to an audit or otherwise, it would have a material adverse effect upon our financial results. - 13 - Risks related to our Industry Generic drug manufacturers will increase competition for certain products and may reduce our expected royalties. Because part of our product development strategy involves the novel reformulation of existing drugs with active ingredients that are off-patent, our products are likely to face competition from generic versions of such drugs. Regulatory approval for generic drugs may be obtained without investing in costly and time consuming clinical trials. Because of substantially reduced development costs, manufacturers of generic drugs are often able to charge much lower prices for their products than the original developer of a new product. If we face competition from manufacturers of generic drugs on products we may commercialize, such as our once-daily Rexista™ oxycodone product, the prices at which such products are sold and the revenues we may receive could be reduced. Market acceptance of our products will be limited if users of our products are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers. Government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement for products like ours, and our commercial success will depend in part on whether appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatments are obtained from government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations and managed care organizations. Even if we succeed in bringing any of our products to market, third-party payers may not provide reimbursement in whole or in part for their use. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Some of our product candidates, such as our once-daily Rexista™ abuse-deterrent oxycodone product, are intended to replace or alter existing therapies or procedures. These third-party payers may conclude that our products are less safe, less effective or less economical than those existing therapies or procedures. Therefore, third-party payers may not approve our products for reimbursement. We may be required to make substantial pricing concessions in order to gain access to the formularies of large managed-care organizations. If third party payers do not approve our products for reimbursement or fail to reimburse them adequately, sales will suffer as some physicians or their patients may opt for a competing product that is approved for reimbursement or is adequately reimbursed. Even if third-party payers make reimbursement available, these payers’ reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability and our potential marketing and distribution partners’ ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. We are subject to significant costs and uncertainties related to compliance with the extensive regulations that govern the manufacturing, labeling, distribution, and promotion of pharmaceutical products as well as environmental, safety and health regulations. Governmental authorities in the United States and Canada regulate the research and development, testing and safety of pharmaceutical products. The regulations applicable to our existing and future products may change. Regulations require extensive clinical trials and other testing and government review and final approval before we can market our products. The cost of complying with government regulation can be substantial and may exceed our available resources, causing delay or cancellation of our product introductions. Some abbreviated application procedures for controlled-release drugs and other products, including those related to our ANDA filings, or to the ANDA filings of unrelated third parties in respect of drugs similar to or chemically related to those of our ANDA filings, are or may become the subject of petitions filed by brand-name drug manufacturers or other ANDA filers seeking changes from the FDA in the interpretation of the statutory approval requirements for particular drugs as part of their strategy to thwart or advance generic competition. We cannot predict whether the FDA will make any changes to its interpretation of the requirements applicable to our ANDA applications as a result of these petitions, or whether unforeseen delays will occur in our ANDA filings while the FDA considers such petitions or changes or otherwise, or the effect that any changes may have on us. Any such changes in FDA interpretation of the statutes or regulations, or any legislated changes in the statutes or regulations, may make it more difficult for us to file ANDAs or obtain approval of our ANDAs and generate revenues and thus may materially harm our business and financial results. - 14 - Any failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approvals could make it so that we are unable to market any products we develop and therefore adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Even if approved in the United States or Canada, regulatory authorities in other countries must approve a product prior to the commencement of marketing the product in those countries. The time required to obtain any such approval may be longer than in the United States or Canada, which could cause the introduction of our products in other countries to be cancelled or materially delayed. The manufacturing, distribution, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling and advertising of our products are subject to extensive regulation by federal agencies, including in the United States, the FDA, Drug Enforcement Administration, Federal Trade Commission, Consumer Product Safety Commission and Environmental Protection Agency, among others. We are also subject to state and local laws, regulations and agencies. Compliance with these regulations requires substantial expenditures of time, money and effort in such areas as production and quality control to ensure full technical compliance. Failure to comply with FDA and other governmental regulations can result in fines, disgorgement, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of NDAs or ANDAs, enforcement actions, injunctions and civil or criminal prosecution. Environmental laws have changed in recent years and we may become subject to stricter environmental standards in the future and face larger capital expenditures in order to comply with environmental laws. We are subject to extensive federal, state, provincial and local environmental laws and regulations which govern the discharge, emission, storage, handling and disposal of a variety of substances that may be used in, or result from, our operations. We are also subject periodically to environmental compliance reviews by environmental, safety, and health regulatory agencies and to potential liability for the remediation of contamination associated with both present and past hazardous waste generation, handling, and disposal activities. We cannot accurately predict the outcome or timing of future expenditures that we may be required to make in order to comply with the federal, state, local and provincial environmental, safety, and health laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations and facilities. We are subject to product liability costs for which we may not have or be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage. The testing and marketing of pharmaceutical products entails an inherent risk of product liability. Liability exposures for pharmaceutical products can be extremely large and pose a material risk. In some instances, we may be or may become contractually obligated to indemnify third parties for such liability. Our business may be materially and adversely affected by a successful product liability claim or claims in excess of any insurance coverage that we may have. Further, even if claims are not successful, the costs of defending such claims and potential adverse publicity could be harmful to our business. While we currently have, and in some cases are contractually obligated to maintain, insurance for our business, property and our products as they are administered in bioavailability/bioequivalence studies, first and third party insurance is increasingly costly and narrow in scope. Therefore, we may be unable to meet such contractual obligations or we may be required to assume more risk in the future. If we are subject to third party claims or suffer a loss or damage in excess of our insurance coverage, we may be required to bear that risk in excess of our insurance limits. Furthermore, any first or third party claims made on our insurance policy may impact our ability to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at reasonable costs or at all in the future. Our products involve the use of hazardous materials and waste, and as a result we are exposed to potential liability claims and to costs associated with complying with laws regulating hazardous waste. Our research and development activities involve the use of hazardous materials, including chemicals, and are subject to Canadian federal, provincial and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products. It is possible that accidental injury or contamination from these materials may occur. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages, which could exceed our available financial resources. Further, we may not be able to maintain insurance to cover these costs on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future. - 15 - Our operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with international business. We may be subject to certain risks that are inherent in an international business, including: · varying regulatory restrictions on sales of our products to certain markets and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · tariffs, customs, duties, and other trade barriers; · difficulties in managing foreign operations and foreign distribution partners; · longer payment cycles and problems in collecting accounts receivable; · political risks; · foreign exchange controls that may restrict or prohibit repatriation of funds; · export and import restrictions or prohibitions, and delays from customs brokers or government agencies; · seasonal reductions in business activity in certain parts of the world; and · potentially adverse tax consequences. Depending on the countries involved, any or all of the foregoing factors could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks related to our Common Shares Our share price has been highly volatile and our shares could suffer a further decline in value. The trading price of our common shares has been highly volatile and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: · sales of our common shares, including any sales made in connection with future financings; · announcements regarding new or existing corporate relationships or arrangements; · announcements by us of significant acquisitions, joint ventures, or capital commitments; · actual or anticipated period-to-period fluctuations in financial results; · clinical and regulatory development regarding our product candidates; · litigation or threat of litigation; · failure to achieve, or changes in, financial estimates by securities analysts; · comments or opinions by securities analysts or members of the medical community; · announcements regarding new or existing products or services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; · conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries; · additions or departures of key personnel or directors; · economic and other external factors or disasters or crises; · limited daily trading volume; and · developments regarding our patents or other intellectual property or that of our competitors. In addition, the stock market in general and the market for drug development companies in particular have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, there has been significant volatility in the market prices of securities of life science companies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities, and the diversion of management’s attention and resources. - 16 - A large number of our common shares could be sold in the market in the near future, which could depress our stock price. As of the date of this annual report, we had approximately 17.9 million common shares outstanding. In addition, a substantial portion of our shares are currently freely trading without restriction under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (“U.S. Securities Act”), having been registered for resale or held by their holders for over one year and are eligible for sale under Rule 144. Our shareholders who received shares under the IPC Arrangement Agreement (as defined in Item 4.A) who were not deemed “affiliates” of either Vasogen, IPC Ltd., or us prior to the IPC Arrangement Agreement were able to resell the common shares that they received without restriction under the U.S. Securities Act. The common shares received by an “affiliate” after the IPC Arrangement Agreement or who were “affiliates” of either Vasogen, IPC Ltd., or us prior to the IPC Arrangement Agreement are subject to certain restrictions on resale under Rule 144. As of the date of this annual report, there are currently common shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants and the conversion of the outstanding convertible debenture for an aggregate of approximately 8.3 million common shares. To the extent any of our options and warrants are exercised and the convertible debenture is converted, a shareholder’s percentage ownership will be diluted and our stock price could be further adversely affected. Moreover, as the underlying shares are sold, the market price could drop significantly if the holders of these restricted shares sell them or if the market perceives that the holders intend to sell these shares. We have no history or foreseeable prospect of paying cash dividends. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common shares and do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain future earnings, if any, for reinvestment in the development and expansion of our business. Dividend payments in the future may also be limited by loan agreements or covenants contained in other securities we may issue. Any future determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital and legal requirements and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. There may not be an active, liquid market for our common shares. There is no guarantee that an active trading market for our common shares will be maintained on the NASDAQ Capital Market (“NASDAQ”) or the Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSX”). Investors may not be able to sell their shares quickly or at the latest market price if trading in our common shares is not active. Future issuances of our shares could adversely affect the trading price of our common shares and could result in substantial dilution to shareholders. We may need to issue substantial amounts of our common shares in the future. To the extent that the market price of our common shares declines, we will need to issue an increasing number of common shares per dollar of equity investment. In addition to our common shares issuable in connection with the exercise of our warrants, our employees, and directors will hold rights to acquire substantial amounts of our common shares. In order to obtain future financing if required, it is likely that we will issue additional common shares or financial instruments that are exchangeable for or convertible into common shares. Also, in order to provide incentives to employees and induce prospective employees and consultants to work for us, we may offer and issue options to purchase common shares and/or rights exchangeable for or convertible into common shares. Future issuances of shares could result in substantial dilution to shareholders. Capital raising activities, if available, and dilution associated with such activities could cause our share price to decline. In addition, the existence of common share purchase warrants may encourage short selling by market participants. Also, in order to provide incentives to current employees and directors and induce prospective employees and consultants to work for us, we have historically granted options and deferred share units (“DSUs”), and intend to continue to do so or offer and issue other rights exchangeable for or convertible into common shares. Future issuances of shares could result in substantial dilution to all our shareholders. Capital raising activities and dilution associated with such activities could cause our share price to decline. - 17 - We may in the future issue preference shares which could adversely affect the rights of holders of our common shares and the value of such shares. Our board of directors has the ability to authorize the issue of an unlimited number of preference shares in series, and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the holders of our common shares. Although we have no preference shares issued and outstanding, preference shares issued in the future could adversely affect the rights and interests of holders of our common shares. Our common shares may not continue to be listed on the TSX. Failure to maintain the applicable continued listing requirements of the TSX could result in our common shares being delisted from the TSX. The TSX will normally consider the delisting of securities if, in the opinion of the exchange, it appears that the public distribution, price, or trading activity of the securities has been so reduced as to make further dealings in the securities on TSX unwarranted. Specifically, participating securities may be delisted from the TSX if, among other things, the market value of an issuer’s securities is less than C$3,000,000 over any period of 30 consecutive trading days. In such circumstances, the TSX may place an issuer under a delisting review pursuant to which the issuer would be reviewed under the TSX’s remedial review process and typically be granted 120 days to comply with all requirements for continued listing. If the market price of our common shares declines further or we are unable to maintain other listing requirements, the TSX could commence a remedial review process that could lead to the delisting of our common shares from the TSX. Further, if we complete a sale, merger, acquisition, or alternative strategic transaction, we will have to consider if the continued listing of our common shares on the TSX is appropriate, or possible. If our common shares are no longer listed on the TSX, they may be eligible for listing on the TSX Venture Exchange. In the event that we are not able to maintain a listing for our common shares on the TSX or the TSX Venture Exchange, it may be extremely difficult or impossible for shareholders to sell their common shares in Canada. Moreover, if we are delisted from the TSX, but obtain a substitute listing for our common shares on the TSX Venture Exchange, our common shares will likely have less liquidity and more price volatility than experienced on the TSX. Shareholders may not be able to sell their common shares on any such substitute exchange in the quantities, at the times, or at the prices that could potentially be available on a more liquid trading market. As a result of these factors, if our common shares are delisted from the TSX, the price of our common shares is likely to decline. Our common shares may not continue to be listed on NASDAQ. Failure to meet the applicable quantitative and/or qualitative maintenance requirements of NASDAQ could result in our common shares being delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. For continued listing, NASDAQ requires, among other things, that listed securities maintain a minimum bid price of not less than $1.00 per share. If the bid price falls below the $1.00 minimum for more than 30 consecutive trading days, an issuer will typically have 180 days to satisfy the $1.00 minimum bid price, which must be maintained for a period of at least ten trading days in order to regain compliance. If we are delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, our common shares may be eligible for trading on an over-the-counter market in the United States. In the event that we are not able to obtain a listing on another U.S. stock exchange or quotation service for our common shares, it may be extremely difficult or impossible for shareholders to sell their common shares in the United States. Moreover, if we are delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, but obtain a substitute listing for our common shares in the United States, it will likely be on a market with less liquidity, and therefore potentially more price volatility, than the NASDAQ Capital Market. Shareholders may not be able to sell their common shares on any such substitute U.S. market in the quantities, at the times, or at the prices that could potentially be available on a more liquid trading market. As a result of these factors, if our common shares are delisted from NASDAQ, the price of our common shares is likely to decline. In addition, a decline in the price of our common shares will impair our ability to obtain financing in the future. - 18 - Our shares are listed for trading in the United States and may become subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules. Transactions in securities that are traded in the United States by companies with net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and a market price per share of less than $5.00 that are not traded on NASDAQ or on other securities exchanges may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“U.S. Exchange Act”). Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional investors must: · make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; · receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; · provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and · obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. As a result of these requirements, if our common shares are at such time subject to the “penny stock” rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in these shares in the United States may be significantly limited. Accordingly, the market price of the shares may be depressed, and investors may find it more difficult to sell the shares. As a foreign private issuer in the United States, we are subject to different U.S. securities laws and rules than a domestic U.S. issuer. As a foreign private issuer under U.S. securities laws we are not required to comply with all the periodic disclosure requirements of the U.S. Exchange Act applicable to domestic United States companies and therefore the publicly available information about us may be different or more limited than if we were a United States domestic issuer. In addition, our officers, directors, and principal shareholders are exempt from the “real time” reporting and ‘‘short swing’’ profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the U.S. Exchange Act and the rules thereunder. Although under Canadian rules, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are generally required to file on SEDI (www.sedi.ca) reports of transactions involving our common shares within five calendar days of such transaction, our shareholders may not know when our officers, directors and principal shareholders purchase or sell our common shares as timely as they would if we were a United States domestic issuer. We are exposed to risks if we are unable to comply with laws and future changes to laws affecting public companies, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and also to increased costs associated with complying with such laws. Any future changes to the laws and regulations affecting public companies, as well as compliance with existing provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”) in the United States and applicable Canadian securities laws, regulations, rules and policies, may cause us to incur increased costs to comply with such laws and requirements, including, among others, hiring additional personnel and increased legal, accounting and advisory fees. Delays or a failure to comply with the new laws, rules and regulations could result in enforcement actions, the assessment of other penalties and civil suits. The new laws and regulations may increase potential costs to be borne under indemnities provided by us to our officers and directors and may make it more difficult to obtain certain types of insurance, including liability insurance for directors and officers; as such, we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, or as executive officers. - 19 - We are required annually to review and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance Multilateral Instrument 52-109 – Certification of Disclosure in Issuer’s Annual and Interim Filings of the Canadian Securities Administrators. The results of this review are reported in our Annual Report on Form 20-F and in our Management Discussion and Analysis. Management’s review is designed to provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance that all material weaknesses in our internal controls are identified. Material weaknesses represent deficiencies in our internal controls that may not prevent or detect a misstatement occurring which could have a material adverse effect on our quarterly or annual financial statements. In addition, there can be no assurance that any remedial actions we take to address any material weaknesses identified will be successful, nor can there be any assurance that further material weaknesses will not be identified in future years. Material errors, omissions or misrepresentations in our disclosures that occur as a result of our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the value of our common shares. We may be classified as a “passive foreign investment company” or “PFIC” for U.S. income tax purposes, which could have significant and adverse tax consequences to U.S. investors. The possible classification of our company as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes could have significant and adverse tax consequences for U.S. holders of our common shares and preference shares (collectively, “shares”). It may be possible for U.S. holders of shares to mitigate certain of these consequences by making an election to treat us as a “qualified electing fund” or “QEF” under Section 1295 of the Code (a “QEF Election”) or a mark-to-market election under Section 1296 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), (a “Mark-to-Market Election”). A non-U.S. corporation generally will be a PFIC if, for a taxable year (a) 75% or more of the gross income of such corporation for such taxable year consists of specified types of passive income or (b) on average, 50% or more of the assets held by such corporation either produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income, based on the fair market value of such assets (or on the adjusted tax basis of such assets, if such non-U.S. corporation is not publicly traded and either is a “controlled foreign corporation” under Section 957(a) of the Code, or makes an election to determine whether it is a PFIC based on the adjusted basis of the assets). The determination of whether we are, or will be, a PFIC for a taxable year depends, in part, on the application of complex U.S. federal income tax rules, which are subject to various interpretations. In addition, whether we will be a PFIC for the current taxable year and each subsequent taxable year depends on our assets and income over the course of each such taxable year and, as a result, cannot be predicted with certainty. Absent one of the elections described above, if we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. holder holds our shares, we generally will continue to be treated as a PFIC regardless of whether we cease to meet the PFIC tests in one or more subsequent years. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that we will not constitute a PFIC in the current (or any future) tax year or that the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) will not challenge any determination made by us concerning our PFIC status. If we are a PFIC, the U.S. federal income tax consequences to a U.S. holder of the ownership and disposition of our shares will depend on whether such U.S. holder makes a QEF or Mark-to-Market Election. Unless otherwise provided by the IRS, a U.S. holder of our shares is generally required to file an informational return annually to report its ownership interest in the PFIC during any year in which we are a PFIC. The foregoing does not purport to be a complete enumeration or explanation of the tax risks involved in an investment in our company. Prospective investors should read this entire annual report and consult with their own legal, tax and financial advisors before deciding to invest in our company. It may be difficult to obtain and enforce judgments against us because of our Canadian residency. We are governed by the laws of Canada. Most of our directors and officers are residents of Canada or other jurisdictions outside of the United States and all or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of such persons may be located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for shareholders to effect service of process upon us or such persons within the United States or to realize in the United States on judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the United States. In addition, there is doubt as to the enforceability in Canada of liabilities predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities law against us, our directors, controlling persons and officers who are not residents of the United States, in original actions or in actions for enforcements of judgments of U.S. courts. - 20 - 