Item 1A. Risk Factors.Risks Related to an Investment in American Realty Capital New York Recovery REIT, Inc. We have a limited operating history and have limited financing sources, and the prior performance of other real estate investment programs sponsored by affiliates of our Advisor may not be an indication of our future results. We have a limited operating history and you should not rely upon the past performance of other real estate investment programs sponsored by affiliates of our Advisor to predict our future results. We were incorporated in October 6, 2009. As of December 31, 2012, we have acquired only 16 properties and do not otherwise have any operations or independent financing. The recent real estate experience of Messrs. Schorsch and Kahane principally has focused on triple-net leasing rather than the active operation of real estate properties. Accordingly, the prior performance of real estate investment programs sponsored by affiliates of Messrs. Schorsch and Kahane and our Advisor may not be indicative of our future results. 5Moreover, other than our revolving credit facility and the proceeds from our IPO, neither our Advisor nor we have any established financing sources. Presently, both we and our Advisor have been funded by capital contributions or advances from American Realty Capital III, LLC, a company which is directly or indirectly controlled by Mr. Schorsch and Mr. Kahane, by proceeds from our offering, and by loans from unaffiliated entities. If our capital resources, or those of our Advisor, are insufficient to support our operations, we will not be successful. You should consider our prospects in light of the risks, uncertainties and difficulties frequently encountered by companies that are, like us, in their early stage of development. To be successful in this market, we must, among other things: •identify and acquire investments that further our investment strategies;•increase awareness of the American Realty Capital New York Recovery REIT, Inc. name within the investment products market;•expand and maintain our network of licensed securities brokers and other agents;•attract, integrate, motivate and retain qualified personnel to manage our day-to-day operations;•respond to competition for our targeted real estate properties and other investments as well as for potential investors; and•continue to build and expand our operations structure to support our business.We cannot guarantee that we will succeed in achieving these goals, and our failure to do so could cause you to lose all or a portion of your investment. You may be more likely to sustain a loss on your investment because our Sponsor does not have as strong an economic incentive to avoid losses as does a sponsor who has made significant equity investments in its company. Our Sponsor has only invested $0.2 million in us through the purchase of 20,000 shares of our common stock at $10.00 per share. Therefore, since we have been successful in raising enough proceeds to be able to reimburse our Sponsor for our significant offering expenses, our Sponsor will have little exposure to loss in the value of our shares. Without this exposure, our investors may be at a greater risk of loss because our Sponsor may have less to lose from a decrease in the value of our shares than would a sponsor that makes more significant equity investments in its company. There is no public trading market for our shares and there may never be one; therefore, it will be difficult for you to sell your shares. There currently is no public market for our shares and there may never be one. If you are able to find a buyer for your shares, you may not sell your shares unless the buyer meets applicable suitability and minimum purchase standards and the sale does not violate state securities laws. Our charter also prohibits the ownership of more than 9.8% in value of the aggregate of the outstanding shares of our stock or more than 9.8% (in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of any class or series of the outstanding shares of our stock by a single investor, unless exempted by our board of directors, which may inhibit large investors from desiring to purchase your shares. Moreover, our share repurchase program includes numerous restrictions that would limit your ability to sell your shares to us. Our board of directors may reject any request for redemption of shares, or amend, suspend or terminate our share repurchase program upon 30 days' notice. Therefore, it will be difficult for you to sell your shares promptly or at all. If you are able to sell your shares, you likely will have to sell them at a substantial discount to the price you paid for the shares. It also is likely that your shares would not be accepted as the primary collateral for a loan. You should purchase the shares only as a long-term investment because of the illiquid nature of the shares. If we, through our Advisor, are unable to find suitable investments, then we may not be able to achieve our investment objectives or pay distributions. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives and to pay distributions is dependent upon the performance of our Advisor in acquiring our investments, selecting tenants for our properties and securing independent financing arrangements. We currently own only 16 properties and we have identified only one other property to acquire and do not have any other investments. Except for those investments described herein and those investors who purchase shares in our offering after such time as our prospectus is supplemented to describe one or more additional investments which have been identified, you will have no opportunity to evaluate the terms of transactions or other economic or financial data concerning our investments. You must rely entirely on the management ability of our Advisor and the oversight of our board of directors. We cannot be sure that our Advisor will be successful in obtaining suitable investments on financially attractive terms or that, if it makes investments on our behalf, our objectives will be achieved. 6We may suffer from delays in locating suitable investments, which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions and the value of your investment. We could suffer from delays in locating suitable investments, particularly as a result of our reliance on our Advisor at times when management of our Advisor is simultaneously seeking to locate suitable investments for other affiliated programs. Delays we encounter in the selection and acquisition of income-producing properties (and, if we develop properties, development of income-producing properties) likely would adversely affect our ability to make distributions and the value of your overall returns. In such event, we may pay all or a substantial portion of our distributions from the proceeds of our offering or from borrowings in anticipation of future cash flow, which may constitute a return of your capital. We have not established any limit on the amount of proceeds from our offering that may be used to fund distributions, except that, in accordance with our organizational documents and Maryland law, we may not make distributions that would: (1) cause us to be unable to pay our debts as they become due in the usual course of business; (2) cause our total assets to be less than the sum of our total liabilities plus senior liquidation preferences, if any; or (3) jeopardize our ability to qualify as a REIT. Distributions from the proceeds of our offering or from borrowings also could reduce the amount of capital we ultimately invest in properties. This, in turn, would reduce the value of your investment. In particular, where we acquire properties prior to the start of construction or during the early stages of construction, it typically will take several months to complete construction and rent available space. Therefore, you could suffer delays in the receipt of cash distributions attributable to those particular properties. If our Advisor is unable to obtain further suitable investments, we will hold the uninvested proceeds of our offering in an interest-bearing account or invest the proceeds in short-term, investment-grade investments. If we cannot invest the uninvested proceeds from our offering within a reasonable amount of time, or if our board of directors determines it is in the best interests of our stockholders, we will return the uninvested proceeds to investors. Our properties may be adversely affected by the current economic downturn, as well as economic cycles and risks inherent to the New York MSA, especially New York City. We expect to use substantially all the net proceeds of our offering to acquire quality income-producing commercial real estate located predominantly in New York City and elsewhere in the New York MSA. Any adverse situation that disproportionately affects the New York MSA, including a continuation or worsening of the current economic downturn, would have a magnified adverse effect on our portfolio. Real estate markets are subject to economic downturns, as they have been in the past, and we cannot predict how economic conditions will impact this markets in both the short and long term. Declines in the economy or a decline in the real estate market in the New York MSA could hurt our financial performance and the value of our properties. The factors affecting economic conditions in the New York MSA include: •financial performance and productivity of the publishing, advertising, financial, technology, retail, insurance and real estate industries;•business layoffs or downsizing;•industry slowdowns;•relocations of businesses;•changing demographics;•increased telecommuting and use of alternative work places;•infrastructure quality;•any oversupply of, or reduced demand for, real estate;•concessions or reduced rental rates under new leases for properties where tenants defaulted; and•increased insurance premiums.In addition, since rental income from office properties fluctuates with general market and economic conditions, our office properties located in the New York MSA may be adversely affected during periods of diminished economic growth and a decline in white-collar employment. We may experience a decrease in occupancy and rental rates accompanied by increases in the cost of re-leasing space (including for tenant improvements) and in uncollectible receivables. Early lease terminations may significantly contribute to a decline in occupancy of our office properties and may adversely affect our profitability. While lease termination fees increase current period income, future rental income may be diminished because, during periods in which market rents decline, it is unlikely that we will collect from replacement tenants the full contracted amount which had been payable under the terminated leases. 7The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for over three years. A protracted economic downturn could have a negative impact on our portfolio. If real property or other real estate related asset values continue to decline after we acquire them, we may have a difficult time making new acquisitions or generating returns on your investment. If the current debt market environment persists, we may modify our investment strategy in order to optimize our portfolio performance. Our options would include limiting or eliminating the use of debt and focusing on those investments that do not require the use of leverage to meet our portfolio goals. It is impossible for us to assess with certainty the future effects of the current adverse trends in the economic and investment climates of the geographic area in which we concentrate, and more generally of the United States, or the real estate markets in this area. If the current economic downturn persists or if there is any further local, national or global worsening of the current economic downturn, our businesses and future profitability will be adversely affected. Because our properties will be located primarily in New York City, our portfolio may be concentrated in properties of substantial size. We anticipate having significant investments in the New York MSA, primarily in New York City, where individual property values may be substantially higher than in other geographic areas in the United States or abroad. We may acquire one or more individual properties with high acquisition costs. As a result, our portfolio may be concentrated in few properties of substantial size. Any adverse situation that disproportionately affects the New York MSA would have a magnified adverse effect on our portfolio. Terrorist attacks, such as those of September 11, 2001 in New York City, may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. We anticipate having significant investments in the New York MSA, primarily in New York City. In the aftermath of a terrorist attack, tenants in these areas may choose to relocate their businesses to less populated, lower-profile areas of the United States that may be perceived to be less likely targets of future terrorist activity and fewer customers may choose to patronize businesses in these areas. This in turn would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in these areas, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease space on less favorable terms. As a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues and cash flows could decline materially. If we are unable to raise substantial funds, we will be limited in the number and type of investments we may make and the value of your investment in us will fluctuate with the performance of the specific properties we acquire. Our offering is being made on a best efforts basis, whereby the Dealer Manager is only required to use its best efforts to sell our shares and has no firm commitment or obligation to purchase any of the shares. As a result, the amount of proceeds we raise in our offering may be substantially less than the amount we would need to achieve a broadly diversified property portfolio. If we are unable to raise substantial proceeds, we will make fewer investments, resulting in less diversification in terms of the number of investments owned, the geographic regions in which our investments are located and the types of investments that we make. In such event, the likelihood of our profitability being affected by the performance of any one of our investments will increase. Additionally, we are not limited in the number or size of our investments or the percentage of net proceeds we may dedicate to a single investment. Your investment in our shares will be subject to greater risk to the extent that we lack a diversified portfolio of investments. In addition, our inability to raise substantial funds would increase our fixed operating expenses as a percentage of gross income, and our financial condition and ability to pay distributions could be adversely affected. If our Advisor loses or is unable to obtain key personnel, our ability to implement our investment strategies could be delayed or hindered, which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions and the value of your investment. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the contributions of certain of our executive officers and other key personnel of our Advisor, including Nicholas S. Schorsch and Edward M. Weil, Jr., each of whom would be difficult to replace. Our Advisor does not have an employment agreement with any of these key personnel and we cannot guarantee that all, or any particular one, will remain affiliated with us or our Advisor. If any of our key personnel were to cease their affiliation with our Advisor, our operating results could suffer. Further, we do not intend to separately maintain key person life insurance on Messrs. Schorsch or Weil or any other person. We believe that our future success depends, in large part, upon our Advisor's ability to hire and retain highly skilled managerial, operational and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that our Advisor will be successful in attracting and retaining such skilled personnel. If our Advisor loses or is unable to obtain the services of key personnel, our ability to implement our investment strategies could be delayed or hindered, and the value of your investment may decline.8We may be unable to pay or maintain distributions from cash available from operations or increase distributions over time. There are many factors that can affect the availability and timing of cash distributions to stockholders. The amount of cash available from our operations for distributions is affected by many factors, such as our ability to buy properties as offering proceeds become available, rental income from such properties and our operating expense levels, as well as many other variables. Actual cash available for distributions may vary substantially from estimates. With limited prior operating history, we cannot assure you that we will be able to pay or maintain our current level of distributions or that distributions will increase over time. We cannot give any assurance that rents from the properties will increase, that the securities we buy will increase in value or provide constant or increased distributions over time, or that future acquisitions of real properties, mortgage, bridge or mezzanine loans or any investments in securities will increase our cash available for distributions to stockholders. Our actual results may differ significantly from the assumptions used by our board of directors in establishing the distribution rate to stockholders. We may not have sufficient cash from operations to make a distribution required to qualify for or maintain our qualification as a REIT. We may pay distributions from unlimited amounts of any source. For example, we may borrow money or use proceeds from our offering to make distributions. Any such distributions will constitute a return of capital and may reduce the amount of capital we ultimately invest in properties and negatively impact the value of your investment. In addition, we may issue additional securities or sell assets to fund distribution payments. Distributions paid from sources other than our cash flows from operations, particularly from proceeds of our IPO, will result in us having fewer funds available for the acquisition of properties and other real estate-related investments and may dilute your interests in us, which may adversely affect our ability to fund future distributions with cash flows from operations and may adversely affect your overall return. Our cash flows provided by operations of $3.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 was a shortfall of $3.7 million, or 54.8%, to our distributions paid of $6.7 million (inclusive of $3.3 million of common stock issued under the DRIP) during such period. Such shortfall was paid from proceeds from common stock issued under the DRIP and proceeds from financings from our revolving credit facility. Additionally, we may in the future pay distributions from sources other than from our cash flows from operations. Until we acquire additional properties or other real estate-related investments, we may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations to pay distributions. Our inability to acquire additional properties or other real estate-related investments may result in a lower return on your investment than you expect. If we have not generated sufficient cash flows from our operations and other sources, such as our Advisor's deferral or suspension or waiver of its fees and expense reimbursements, to fund distributions, we may use the proceeds from our IPO, from borrowings or from the sale of additional securities. Moreover, our board of directors may change our distribution policy, in its sole discretion, at any time. Distributions made from offering proceeds are a return of capital to stockholders, from which we will have already paid offering expenses in connection with our IPO. We have not established any limit on the amount of proceeds from our IPO that may be used to fund distributions, except that, in accordance with our organizational documents and Maryland law, we may not make distributions that would: (1) cause us to be unable to pay our debts as they become due in the usual course of business; (2) cause our total assets to be less than the sum of our total liabilities plus senior liquidation preferences, if any; or (3) jeopardize our ability to qualify as a REIT. If we fund distributions from the proceeds of our IPO, we will have less funds available for acquiring properties or other real estate-related investments. As a result, the return you realize on your investment may be reduced. Funding distributions from borrowings could restrict the amount we can borrow for investments, which may affect our profitability. Funding distributions with the sale of assets or the proceeds of our IPO may affect our ability to generate cash flows. Funding distributions from the sale of additional securities could dilute your interest in us if we sell shares of our common stock or securities convertible or exercisable into shares of our common stock to third-party investors. Payment of distributions from the mentioned sources could restrict our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, affect our profitability or affect the distributions payable to you upon a liquidity event, any or all of which may have an adverse effect on your investment.9Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to recover claims against our officers, directors and our Advisor are limited, which could reduce your and our recovery against them if they cause us to incur losses. Maryland law provides that a director has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in the corporation's best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. In addition, subject to certain limitations set forth therein or under Maryland law, our charter provides that no director or officer will be liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages and requires us to indemnify our directors, officers and Advisor and our Advisor's affiliates and permits us to indemnify our employees and agents. However, as required by the NASAA REIT Guidelines, our charter provides that we may not indemnify a director, our Advisor or an affiliate of our Advisor for any loss or liability suffered by any of them or hold harmless such indemnitee for any loss or liability suffered by us unless (1) the indemnitee determined, in good faith, that the course of conduct that caused the loss or liability was in our best interests, (2) the indemnitee was acting on behalf of or performing services for us, (3) the liability or loss was not the result of (A) negligence or misconduct, in the case of a director (other than an independent director), the Advisor or an affiliate of the Advisor, or (B) gross negligence or willful misconduct, in the case of an independent director, and (4) the indemnification or agreement to hold harmless is recoverable only out of our net assets and not from our stockholders. Although our charter does not allow us to indemnify or hold harmless an indemnitee to a greater extent than permitted under Maryland law and the NASAA REIT Guidelines, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors, officers, employees and agents, and our Advisor and its affiliates, than might otherwise exist under common law, which could reduce your and our recovery against them. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors, officers, employees and agents or our Advisor and its affiliates in some cases which would decrease the cash otherwise available for distribution to you. We rely significantly on one major tenant and therefore, are subject to tenant credit concentrations that make us more susceptible to adverse events with respect to that tenant.From time to time, one or more of our tenants (including, for this purpose, all affiliates thereof) may account for 5% or more of our annualized rental income on a straight-line basis. American Language Communication Center, Inc. represented 13.5% of our annualized rental income as of December 31, 2012.The financial failure of a major tenant is likely to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. In addition, the value of our investment in a real estate asset is historically driven by the credit quality of the underlying tenant, and an adverse change in a major tenant's financial condition or a decline in the credit rating of such tenant may result in a decline in the value of our investments and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest We are subject to conflicts of interest arising out of our relationships with our Advisor and its affiliates, including the material conflicts discussed below. The management of multiple REITs, especially REITs in the development stage, by our executive officers and officers of our Advisor may significantly reduce the amount of time our executive officers and officers of our Advisor are able to spend on activities related to us and may cause other conflicts of interest, which may cause our operating results to suffer. Our executive officers and officers of our Advisor are part of the senior management or are key personnel of the other American Realty Capital-sponsored REITs and their advisors. Four of the American Realty Capital-sponsored REITs, including American Realty Capital Global Trust, Inc., American Realty Capital Trust IV, Inc., ARC Realty Finance Trust, Inc. and American Realty Capital Healthcare Trust II, Inc., have registration statements that became effective in the past 12 months and currently are offering securities and none of the American Realty Capital-sponsored REITs are more than five years old. As a result, such REITs will have concurrent and/or overlapping fundraising, acquisition, operational and disposition and liquidation phases as us, which may cause conflicts of interest to arise throughout the life of our company with respect to, among other things, finding investors, locating and acquiring properties, entering into leases and disposing of properties. The conflicts of interest each of our executive officers and each officer of our Advisor will face may delay our fund raising and investment of our proceeds due to the competing time demands and generally cause our operating results to suffer. Officers of any service provider may face similar conflicts of interest should they be involved with the management of multiple REITs, and especially REITs in the developmental stage. 10We will compete for investors with other programs of our Sponsor, which could adversely affect the amount of capital we have to invest. The American Realty Capital group of companies is currently the sponsor of eight other public offerings of non-traded REIT shares, the majority of which will be ongoing during a significant portion of our offering period. These programs all have filed registration statements for the offering of common stock and either are or intend to elect to be taxed as REITs. These offerings are taking place concurrently with our offering, and our Sponsor is likely to sponsor other offerings during our offering period. Our Dealer Manager is the dealer manager for these other offerings. Additionally, our Sponsor is the sponsor of ARCP, which is a REIT that is actively traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, which may conduct one or more offerings during our offering period. We will compete for investors with these other programs, and the overlap of these offerings with our offering could adversely affect our ability to raise all the capital we seek in this offering, the timing of sales of our shares and the amount of proceeds we have to spend on real estate investments. Our Advisor faces conflicts of interest relating to the purchase and leasing of properties, and such conflicts may not be resolved in our favor, which could adversely affect our investment opportunities. Affiliates of our Advisor have sponsored and may sponsor one or more other real estate investment programs in the future. We may buy properties at the same time as one or more of the other American Realty Capital-sponsored programs managed by officers and key personnel of our Advisor. There is a risk that our Advisor will choose a property that provides lower returns to us than a property purchased by another American Realty Capital-sponsored program. We cannot be sure that officers and key personnel acting on behalf of our Advisor and on behalf of managers of other American Realty Capital-sponsored programs will act in our best interests when deciding whether to allocate any particular property to us. In addition, we may acquire properties in geographic areas where other American Realty Capital-sponsored programs own properties. Also, we may acquire properties from, or sell properties to, other American Realty Capital-sponsored programs. If one of the other American Realty Capital-sponsored programs attracts a tenant that we are competing for, we could suffer a loss of revenue due to delays in locating another suitable tenant. You will not have the opportunity to evaluate the manner in which these conflicts of interest are resolved before or after making your investment. Similar conflicts of interest may apply if our Advisor determines to make or purchase mortgage, bridge or mezzanine loans or participations therein on our behalf, since other American Realty Capital-sponsored programs may be competing with us for these investments. Our Advisor faces conflicts of interest relating to joint ventures, which could result in a disproportionate benefit to the other venture partners at our expense. We may enter into joint ventures with other American Realty Capital-sponsored programs for the acquisition, development or improvement of properties. Our Advisor may have conflicts of interest in determining which American Realty Capital-sponsored program should enter into any particular joint venture agreement. The co-venturer may have economic or business interests or goals that are or may become inconsistent with our business interests or goals. In addition, our Advisor may face a conflict in structuring the terms of the relationship between our interests and the interest of the affiliated co-venturer and in managing the joint venture. Since our Advisor and its affiliates will control both the affiliated co-venturer and, to a certain extent, us, agreements and transactions between the co-venturers with respect to any such joint venture will not have the benefit of arm's-length negotiation of the type normally conducted between unrelated co-venturers, which may result in the co-venturer receiving benefits greater than the benefits that we receive. In addition, we may assume liabilities related to the joint venture that exceeds the percentage of our investment in the joint venture. Our Advisor and its officers and employees and certain of our key personnel face competing demands relating to their time, and this may cause our operating results to suffer. Our Advisor and its officers and employees and certain of our key personnel and their respective affiliates are key personnel, general partners and sponsors of other real estate programs having investment objectives and legal and financial obligations similar to ours and may have other business interests as well. Because these persons have competing demands on their time and resources, they may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time between our business and these other activities. If this occurs, the returns on our investments may suffer. 11Our officers and directors face conflicts of interest related to the positions they hold with affiliated entities, which could hinder our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and to generate returns to you. Certain of our executive officers, including Nicholas S. Schorsch, who also serves as the chairman of our board of directors, and Edward M. Weil, Jr., president, chief operating officer and secretary, also are officers of our Advisor, our Property Manager, our Dealer Manager and other affiliated entities, including the other real estate programs sponsored by ARC. Their loyalties to these other entities could result in actions or inactions that are detrimental to our business, which could harm the implementation of our business strategy and our investment and leasing opportunities. Conflicts with our business and interests are most likely to arise from involvement in activities related to (a) allocation of new investments and management time and services between us and the other entities, (b) our purchase of properties from, or sale of properties, to affiliated entities, (c) the timing and terms of the investment in or sale of an asset, (d) development of our properties by affiliates, (e) investments with affiliates of our Advisor, (f) compensation to our Advisor, and (g) our relationship with our Dealer Manager and Property Manager. If we do not successfully implement our business strategy, we may be unable to generate cash needed to make distributions to you and to maintain or increase the value of our assets. There is no separate counsel for us and our affiliates, which could result in conflicts of interest. Proskauer Rose LLP acts as legal counsel to us and also represents our Advisor and some of its affiliates. There is a possibility in the future that the interests of the various parties may become adverse and, under the Code of Professional Responsibility of the legal profession, Proskauer Rose LLP may be precluded from representing any one or all such parties. If any situation arises in which our interests appear to be in conflict with those of our Advisor or its affiliates, additional counsel may be retained by one or more of the parties to assure that their interests are adequately protected. Moreover, should a conflict of interest not be readily apparent, Proskauer Rose LLP may inadvertently act in derogation of the interest of the parties which could affect our ability to meet our investment objectives. Our Advisor and its affiliates face conflicts of interest relating to our incentive fee structure, which could result in actions that are not necessarily in the long-term best interests of our stockholders. Under our advisory agreement and the partnership agreement of the OP (the "Partnership Agreement") our Advisor or its affiliates, including New York Recovery Special Limited Partnership, LLC (the "Special Limited Partner") will be entitled to fees and distributions that are structured in a manner intended to provide incentives to our Advisor to perform in our best interests and in the best interests of our stockholders. However, because our Advisor does not maintain a significant equity interest in us and is entitled to receive substantial minimum compensation regardless of performance, our Advisor's interests are not wholly aligned with those of our stockholders. In that regard, our Advisor could be motivated to recommend riskier or more speculative investments in order for us to generate the specified levels of performance or sales proceeds that would entitle our Advisor to fees. In addition, our Advisor's and its assignees' entitlement to fees upon the sale of our assets and to participate in sale proceeds could result in our Advisor recommending sales of our investments at the earliest possible time at which sales of investments would produce the level of return that would entitle the Advisor to compensation relating to such sales, even if continued ownership of those investments might be in our best long-term interest. The Partnership Agreement requires us to pay a performance-based termination fee to the Special Limited Partner if we terminate the advisory agreement prior to the listing of our shares for trading on an exchange or, absent such termination, in respect of its participation in net sales proceeds. To avoid paying this fee, our independent directors may decide against terminating the advisory agreement prior to our listing of our shares or disposition of our investments even if, but for the termination fee, termination of the advisory agreement would be in our best interest. In addition, the requirement to pay the fee to the Advisor or its affiliates at termination could cause us to make different investment or disposition decisions than we would otherwise make, in order to satisfy our obligation to pay the fee to the terminated Advisor. Moreover, our Advisor will have the right to terminate the advisory agreement upon a change of control of our company and thereby trigger the payment of the termination fee, which could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing the change of control. We disclose modified funds from operations, a non-GAAP financial measure, including in documents filed with the SEC; however, modified fund from operations is not equivalent to our net income or loss as determined under GAAP, and you should consider GAAP measures to be more relevant to our operating performance.We use and disclose to investors modified funds from operations ("MFFO"), which is a non-GAAP financial measure. See ''Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Funds from Operations and Modified Funds from Operations.'' MFFO is not equivalent to our net income or loss as determined in accordance with GAAP, and investors should consider GAAP measures to be more relevant to evaluating our operating performance. MFFO and GAAP net income differ because MFFO excludes gains or losses from sales of property and asset impairment write-downs, and adds back depreciation and amortization, adjusts for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures, and further excludes acquisition-related expenses, amortization of above- and below-market leases, fair value adjustments of derivative financial instruments, deferred rent receivables and the adjustments of such items related to noncontrolling interests. 12Because of the differences between MFFO and GAAP net income or loss, MFFO may not be an accurate indicator of our operating performance, especially during periods in which we are acquiring properties. In addition, MFFO is not necessarily indicative of cash flow available to fund cash needs and investors should not consider MFFO as an alternative to cash flows from operations, as an indication of our liquidity, or as indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs, including our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Neither the SEC nor any other regulatory body has passed judgment on the acceptability of the adjustments that we use to calculate MFFO. Also, because not all companies calculate MFFO the same way, comparisons with other companies may not be meaningful.Risks Related to Our Offering and Our Corporate StructureThe limit on the number of shares a person may own may discourage a takeover that could otherwise result in a premium price to our stockholders. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person may own more than 9.8% in value of the aggregate of the outstanding shares of our stock or more than 9.8% (in value or number, whichever is more restrictive) of any class or series of the outstanding shares of our stock. This restriction may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all our assets) that might provide a premium price for holders of our common stock. Our charter permits our board of directors to issue stock with terms that may subordinate the rights of common stockholders or discourage a third party from acquiring us in a manner that might result in a premium price to our stockholders. Our charter permits our board of directors to issue up to 350.0 million shares of stock. In addition, our board of directors, without any action by our stockholders, may amend our charter from time to time to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares or the number of shares of any class or series of stock that we have authority to issue. Our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued common stock or preferred stock and establish the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or other distributions, qualifications and terms or conditions of redemption of any such stock. Thus, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of preferred stock with terms and conditions that could have a priority as to distributions and amounts payable upon liquidation over the rights of the holders of our common stock. Preferred stock could also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all our assets) that might provide a premium price for holders of our common stock.Maryland law prohibits certain business combinations, which may make it more difficult for us to be acquired and may limit your ability to exit the investment. Under Maryland law, "business combinations" between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. An interested stockholder is defined as: •any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's outstanding voting stock; or•an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then-outstanding stock of the corporation.A person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which he or she otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. However, in approving a transaction, the board of directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board of directors. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: •80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation; and•two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder.13These super-majority vote requirements do not apply if the corporation's common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined under Maryland law, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder for its shares. The business combination statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by the board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Pursuant to the statute, our board of directors has exempted any business combination involving our Advisor or any affiliate of our Advisor. Consequently, the five-year prohibition and the super-majority vote requirements will not apply to business combinations between us and our Advisor or any affiliate of our Advisor. As a result, our Advisor and any affiliate of our Advisor may be able to enter into business combinations with us that may not be in the best interest of our stockholders, without compliance with the super-majority vote requirements and the other provisions of the statute. The business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. Maryland law limits the ability of a third-party to buy a large stake in us and exercise voting power in electing directors, which may discourage a takeover that could otherwise result in a premium price to our stockholders. The Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act provides that "control shares" of a Maryland corporation acquired in a "control share acquisition" have no voting rights except to the extent approved by the affirmative vote of stockholders entitled to cast two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Shares of stock owned by the acquirer, by officers or by employees who are directors of the corporation, are excluded from shares entitled to vote on the matter. "Control shares" are voting shares of stock which, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned by the acquirer or in respect of which the acquirer can exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquirer to exercise voting power in electing directors within specified ranges of voting power. Control shares do not include shares the acquiring person is then entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained stockholder approval. A "control share acquisition" means the acquisition of control shares. The control share acquisition statute does not apply (a) to shares acquired in a merger, consolidation or share exchange if the corporation is a party to the transaction, or (b) to acquisitions approved or exempted by the charter or by-laws of the corporation. Our by-laws contain a provision exempting from the Control Share Acquisition Act any and all acquisitions of our stock by any person. There can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. Your investment return may be reduced if we are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. The company is not registered, and does not intend to register itself or any of its subsidiaries, as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. If we become obligated to register the company or any of its subsidiaries as an investment company, the registered entity would have to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act imposing, among other things: •limitations on capital structure;•restrictions on specified investments;•prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; and•compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly change our operations.The company intends to conduct its operations, directly and through wholly or majority-owned subsidiaries, so that the company and each of its subsidiaries are exempt from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. Under Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act, a company is deemed to be an "investment company" if it is, or holds itself out as being, engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Under Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act, a company is deemed to be an "investment company" if it is engaged, or proposes to engage, in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or propose to acquire "investment securities" having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets on an unconsolidated basis, which we refer to as the "40% test." Since we will be primarily engaged in the business of acquiring real estate, we believe that the company and most, if not all, of its wholly and majority-owned subsidiaries will not be considered investment companies under either Section 3(a)(1)(A) or Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act. If the company or any of its wholly or majority-owned subsidiaries would ever inadvertently fall within one of the definitions of "investment company," we intend to rely on the exception provided by Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act. 14Under Section 3(c)(5)(C), the SEC staff generally requires a company to maintain at least 55% of its assets directly in qualifying assets and at least 80% of the entity's assets in qualifying assets and in a broader category of real estate related assets to qualify for this exception. Mortgage-related securities may or may not constitute such qualifying assets, depending on the characteristics of the mortgage-related securities, including the rights that we have with respect to the underlying loans. The company's ownership of mortgage-related securities, therefore, is limited by provisions of the Investment Company Act and SEC staff interpretations. The method we use to classify our assets for purposes of the Investment Company Act will be based in large measure upon no-action positions taken by the SEC staff in the past. These no-action positions were issued in accordance with factual situations that may be substantially different from the factual situations we may face, and a number of these no-action positions were issued more than twenty years ago. No assurance can be given that the SEC staff will concur with our classification of our assets. In addition, the SEC staff may, in the future, issue further guidance that may require us to re-classify our assets for purposes of qualifying for an exclusion from regulation under the Investment Company Act. If we are required to re-classify our assets, we may no longer be in compliance with the exclusion from the definition of an "investment company" provided by Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act. A change in the value of any of our assets could cause us or one or more of our wholly or majority-owned subsidiaries to fall within the definition of "investment company" and negatively affect our ability to maintain our exemption from regulation under the Investment Company Act. To avoid being required to register the company or any of its subsidiaries as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may be unable to sell assets we would otherwise want to sell and may need to sell assets we would otherwise wish to retain. In addition, we may have to acquire additional income- or loss-generating assets that we might not otherwise have acquired or may have to forgo opportunities to acquire interests in companies that we would otherwise want to acquire and would be important to our investment strategy. If we were required to register the company as an investment company but failed to do so, we would be prohibited from engaging in our business, and criminal and civil actions could be brought against us. In addition, our contracts would be unenforceable unless a court required enforcement, and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of us and liquidate our business. You are bound by the majority vote on matters on which you are entitled to vote, and therefore, your vote on a particular matter may be superseded by the vote of others. You may vote on certain matters at any annual or special meeting of stockholders, including the election of directors. However, you will be bound by the majority vote on matters requiring approval of a majority of the stockholders even if you do not vote with the majority on any such matter. If you do not agree with the decisions of our board of directors, you only have limited control over changes in our policies and operations and may not be able to change such policies and operations. Our board of directors determines our major policies, including our policies regarding investments, financing, growth, debt capitalization, REIT qualification and distributions. Our board of directors may amend or revise these and other policies without a vote of the stockholders except to the extent that such policies are set forth in our charter. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law and our charter, our stockholders have a right to vote only on the following: •the election or removal of directors;•any amendment of our charter (including a change in our investment objectives), except that our board of directors may amend our charter without stockholder approval to (a) increase or decrease the aggregate number of our shares or the number of shares of any class or series that we have the authority to issue, (b) effect certain reverse stock splits, and (c) change our name or the name or other designation or the par value of any class or series of our stock and the aggregate par value of our stock;•our liquidation or dissolution;•certain reorganizations of our company, as provided in our charter; and•certain mergers, consolidations or sales or other dispositions of all or substantially all our assets, as provided in our charter.All other matters are subject to the discretion of our board of directors. 15Our board of directors may change our investment policies without stockholder approval, which could alter the nature of your investments. Our charter requires that our independent directors review our investment policies at least annually to determine that the policies we are following are in the best interest of the stockholders. These policies may change over time. The methods of implementing our investment policies also may vary, as new real estate development trends emerge and new investment techniques are developed. Our investment policies, the methods for their implementation, and our other objectives, policies and procedures may be altered by our board of directors without the approval of our stockholders. As a result, the nature of your investment could change without your consent. We will not calculate the net asset value per share for our shares until 18 months after completion of our last offering. Therefore, you will not be able to determine the net asset value of your shares on an on-going basis during our offering and for a substantial period of time thereafter. We do not intend to calculate the net asset value per share for our shares until 18 months after the completion of our last offering. Beginning 18 months after the completion of the last offering of our shares (excluding offerings under our distribution reinvestment plan), our board of directors will determine the value of our properties and our other assets based on such information as our board determines appropriate, which may or may not include independent valuations of our properties or of our enterprise as a whole. We will disclose this net asset value to stockholders in our filings with the SEC. Therefore, you will not be able to determine the net asset value of your shares on an on-going basis during our offering. You are limited in your ability to sell your shares pursuant to our share repurchase program and may have to hold your shares for an indefinite period of time. Our board of directors may amend the terms of our share repurchase program without stockholder approval. Our board of directors also is free to suspend or terminate the program upon 30 days' notice or to reject any request for repurchase. In addition, the share repurchase program includes numerous restrictions that would limit your ability to sell your shares. Generally, you must have held your shares for at least one year in order to participate in our share repurchase program. Subject to funds being available, the purchase price for shares repurchased under our share repurchase program will be as set forth below until we establish an estimated value of our shares. We do not currently anticipate obtaining appraisals for our investments (other than investments in transactions with our Sponsor, Advisor, directors or their respective affiliates) and, accordingly, the estimated value of our investments should not be viewed as an accurate reflection of the fair market value of our investments nor will they represent the amount of net proceeds that would result from an immediate sale of our assets. We expect to begin establishing an estimated value of our shares based on the value of our real estate and real estate-related investments beginning 18 months after the close of our offering. We will retain persons independent of us and our Advisor to prepare the estimated value of our shares. Only those stockholders who purchased their shares from us or received their shares from us (directly or indirectly) through one or more non-cash transactions may be able to participate in the share redemption program. In other words, once our shares are transferred for value by a stockholder, the transferee and all subsequent holders of the shares are not eligible to participate in the share redemption program. We will repurchase shares on the last business day of each quarter (and in all events on a date other than a dividend payment date). Prior to establishing the estimated value of our shares, the price per share that we will pay to repurchase shares of our common stock will be as follows: (a) the lower of $9.25 or 92.5% of the price paid to acquire the shares from us for stockholders who have continuously held their shares for at least one year, (b) the lower of $9.50 or 95.0% of the price paid to acquire the shares from us for stockholders who have continuously held their shares for at least two years, (c) the lower of $9.75 or 97.5% of the price paid to acquire the shares from us for stockholders who have continuously held their shares for at least three years, and (d) the lower of $10.00 or 100% of the price paid to acquire the shares from us for stockholders who have continuously held their shares for at least four years (in each case, as adjusted for any stock dividends, combinations, splits, recapitalizations and the like with respect to our common stock). These limits might prevent us from accommodating all repurchase requests made in any year. These restrictions severely limit your ability to sell your shares should you require liquidity, and limit your ability to recover the value you invested or the fair market value of your shares. We established the offering price on an arbitrary basis; as a result, the actual value of your investment may be substantially less than what you pay. Our board of directors has arbitrarily determined the selling price of the shares, and such price bears no relationship to our book or asset values, or to any other established criteria for valuing issued or outstanding shares. Because the offering price is not based upon any independent valuation, the offering price is not indicative of the proceeds that you would receive upon liquidation. 16Because our Dealer Manager is one of our affiliates, you will not have the benefit of an independent review of our prospectus or us of the type customarily performed in underwritten offerings. Our Dealer Manager is one of our affiliates and will not make an independent review of us or the offering. Accordingly, you will have to rely on your own broker-dealer to make an independent review of the terms of our offering. If your broker-dealer does not conduct such a review, you will not have the benefit of an independent review of the terms of our offering. Further, the due diligence investigation of us by the Dealer Manager cannot be considered to be an independent review and, therefore, may not be as meaningful as a review conducted by an unaffiliated broker-dealer or investment banker. In addition, we do not, and do not expect to, have research analysts reviewing our performance or our securities on an ongoing basis. Therefore, you will not have an independent review of our performance and the value of our common stock relative to publicly traded companies. Because our Advisor is wholly owned by our Sponsor through the Special Limited Partner, the interests of the Advisor and the Sponsor are not separate and as a result the Advisor may act in a way that is not necessarily in the investors' interest. Our Advisor is indirectly wholly owned by our Sponsor through the Special Limited Partner. Therefore, the interests of our Advisor and our Sponsor are not separate and the Advisor's decisions may not be independent from the Sponsor and may result in the Advisor making decisions to act in ways that are not in the investors' interests.Your interest in us will be diluted if we issue additional shares, which could adversely affect the value of your investment. Existing stockholders and potential investors in our offering do not have preemptive rights to any shares issued by us in the future. Our charter currently authorizes us to issue 350.0 million shares of stock, of which 300.0 million shares are classified as common stock and 50.0 million are classified as preferred stock. Our board of directors may increase or decrease the aggregate number of authorized shares of stock, increase or decrease the number of shares of any class or series of stock designated, or reclassify any unissued shares into other classes or series of stock without the necessity of obtaining stockholder approval. All such shares may be issued in the discretion of our board of directors. Existing stockholders and investors purchasing shares in our offering likely will suffer dilution of their equity investment in us if we: (a) sell shares in our offering or sell additional shares in the future, including those issued pursuant to our distribution reinvestment plan; (b) sell securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock; (c) issue shares of our common stock in a private offering of securities to institutional investors; (d) issue restricted share awards to our directors; (e) issue shares to our Advisor or its affiliates, successors or assigns, in payment of an outstanding fee obligation as set forth under our advisory agreement and other agreements; or (f) issue shares of our common stock to sellers of properties acquired by us in connection with an exchange of limited partnership interests of the OP. In addition, the Partnership Agreement contains provisions that would allow, under certain circumstances, other entities, including other American Realty Capital-sponsored programs, to merge into or cause the exchange or conversion of their interest for interests of the OP. Because the limited partnership interests of the OP may, in the discretion of our board of directors, be exchanged for shares of our common stock, any merger, exchange or conversion between the OP and another entity ultimately could result in the issuance of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, thereby diluting the percentage ownership interest of other stockholders. Because of these and other reasons described in this "Risk Factors" section, you should not expect to be able to own a significant percentage of our shares. Future offerings of equity securities which are senior to our common stock for purposes of dividend distributions or upon liquidation may adversely affect the per share trading price of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of equity securities. Under our charter, we may issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock or other classes of common stock with rights that could dilute the value of your shares of common stock. Any issuance of preferred stock must be approved by a majority of our independent directors not otherwise interested in the transaction, who will have access, at our expense, to our legal counsel or to independent legal counsel. Upon liquidation, holders of our shares of preferred stock having a preference as to dividend distributions or upon liquidation will be entitled to receive our available assets prior to distribution to the holders of our common stock. Additionally, any convertible, exercisable or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock and may result in dilution to owners of our common stock. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. Our preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that could limit our ability pay a liquidating distribution or dividends to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the per share trading price of our common stock and diluting their interest in us. 17The value of our common shares was diluted upon conversion of the preferred shares. On December 22, 2009, we commenced a private offering to accredited investors of up to $50.0 million in shares of our 8% series A convertible preferred stock (or the preferred shares) subject to an option to increase the offering up to $100.0 million in shares of our preferred stock. Pursuant to the terms of the private offering, the private offering terminated on September 2, 2010, the effective date of the registration statement. We received aggregate gross offering proceeds, net of certain discounts, of approximately $17.0 million from the sale of shares in the private offering. The preferred shares were convertible in whole or in part into shares of common stock after September 2, 2011, the first anniversary of the final closing of the private offering, at a conversion price of $9.00 per share (subject to discounts to a price not less than $8.50). On December 15, 2011, we exercised our option to convert all our outstanding preferred shares into approximately 2.0 million shares of common stock on a one-for-one basis. This conversion price was at a discount from the public offering price of our common stock pursuant to our offering and has resulted in dilution of our stockholders' interest in us. Payment of fees to our Advisor and its affiliates reduces cash available for investment and distribution. Our Advisor and its affiliates perform services for us in connection with conducting our operations and managing the portfolio of real estate and real estate-related debt and investments. Our Advisor and its affiliates will be paid substantial fees and receive substantial distributions for these services, which reduces the amount of cash available for investment in properties or distribution to stockholders.Because of our holding company structure, we depend on our operating subsidiary and its subsidiaries for cash flow and we will be structurally subordinated in right of payment to the obligations of such operating subsidiary and its subsidiaries. We are a holding company with no business operations of our own. Our only significant asset is and will be the general partnership interests of our operating partnership. We conduct, and intend to conduct, all of our business operations through our operating partnership. Accordingly, our only source of cash to pay our obligations is distributions from our operating partnership and its subsidiaries of their net earnings and cash flows. We cannot assure you that our operating partnership or its subsidiaries will be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to us that will enable us to make distributions to our stockholders from cash flows from operations. Each of our operating partnership's subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from such entities. In addition, because we are a holding company, your claims as stockholders will be structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations of our operating partnership and its subsidiaries. Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, our assets and those of our operating partnership and its subsidiaries will be able to satisfy your claims as stockholders only after all of our and our operating partnerships' and its subsidiaries' liabilities and obligations have been paid in full. General Risks Related to Investments in Real Estate Losses from catastrophes may exceed our insurance coverage. We carry comprehensive liability and property insurance on our properties and intend to obtain similar coverage for properties we acquire in the future. Some losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from floods, hurricanes or earthquakes, are subject to limitations, and thus may be uninsured. If we suffer a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement value of our lost investment. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed.Our operating results will be affected by economic and regulatory changes that have an adverse impact on the real estate market in general, and we cannot assure you that we will be profitable or that we will realize growth in the value of our real estate properties. Our operating results are subject to risks generally incident to the ownership of real estate, including: •changes in general economic or local conditions;•changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing properties in an area;•changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds that may render the sale of a property difficult or unattractive;•changes in tax, real estate, environmental and zoning laws; and•periods of high interest rates and tight money supply.These and other risks may prevent us from being profitable or from realizing growth or maintaining the value of our real estate properties. 18If a tenant declares bankruptcy, we may be unable to collect balances due under relevant leases, which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to make distributions to you. Any of our tenants, or any guarantor of a tenant's lease obligations, could be subject to a bankruptcy proceeding pursuant to Title 11 of the bankruptcy laws of the United States. Such a bankruptcy filing would bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from these entities or their properties, unless we receive an enabling order from the bankruptcy court. Post-bankruptcy debts would be paid currently. If a lease is assumed, all pre-bankruptcy balances owing under it must be paid in full. If a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have a general unsecured claim for damages. If a lease is rejected, it is unlikely we would receive any payments from the tenant because our claim is capped at the rent reserved under the lease, without acceleration, for the greater of one year or 15% of the remaining term of the lease, but not greater than three years, plus rent already due but unpaid. This claim could be paid only if funds were available, and then only in the same percentage as that realized on other unsecured claims. In January 2013, Big M, Inc., a tenant in our 1100 Kings Highway property declared bankruptcy under Chapter 11. As of December 31, 2012, Big M, Inc. represents 1.6% of our total annualized rental income and owes us approximately $44,000, which was paid in February 2013. Big M, Inc. has 210 days upon filing for bankruptcy protection to assume or reject its lease.A tenant or lease guarantor bankruptcy could delay efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude full collection of these sums. Such an event could cause a decrease or cessation of rental payments that would mean a reduction in our cash flow and the amount available for distributions to you. In the event of a bankruptcy, we cannot assure you that the tenant or its trustee will assume our lease. If a given lease, or guaranty of a lease, is not assumed, our cash flow and the amounts available for distributions to you may be adversely affected. If a sale-leaseback transaction is re-characterized in a tenant's bankruptcy proceeding, our financial condition and ability to pay distributions to you could be adversely affected. We may enter into sale-leaseback transactions, whereby we would purchase a property and then lease the same property back to the person from whom we purchased it. In the event of the bankruptcy of a tenant, a transaction structured as a sale-leaseback may be re-characterized as either a financing or a joint venture, either of which outcomes could adversely affect our business. If the sale-leaseback were re-characterized as a financing, we might not be considered the owner of the property, and as a result would have the status of a creditor in relation to the tenant. In that event, we would no longer have the right to sell or encumber our ownership interest in the property. Instead, we would have a claim against the tenant for the amounts owed under the lease, with the claim arguably secured by the property. The tenant/debtor might have the ability to propose a plan restructuring the term, interest rate and amortization schedule of its outstanding balance. If confirmed by the bankruptcy court, we could be bound by the new terms, and prevented from foreclosing our lien on the property. If the sale-leaseback were re-characterized as a joint venture, our lessee and we could be treated as co-venturers with regard to the property. As a result, we could be held liable, under some circumstances, for debts incurred by the lessee relating to the property. Either of these outcomes could adversely affect our cash flow and the amount available for distributions to you. Recharacterization of sale-leaseback transactions may cause us to lose our REIT status. If we enter into sale-leaseback transactions, we will use commercially reasonable efforts to structure any such sale-leaseback transaction such that the lease will be characterized as a "true lease" for tax purposes, thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, we cannot assure you that the IRS will not challenge such characterization. In the event that any such sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and recharacterized as a financing transaction or loan for U.S. federal income tax purposes, deductions for depreciation and cost recovery relating to such property would be disallowed. If a sale-leaseback transaction were so recharacterized, we might fail to satisfy the REIT qualification "asset tests" or "income tests" and, consequently, lose our REIT status effective with the year of recharacterization. Alternatively, the amount of our REIT taxable income could be recalculated which might also cause us to fail to meet the distribution requirement for a taxable year. Properties that have vacancies for a significant period of time could be difficult to sell, which could diminish the return on your investment. A property may incur vacancies either by the continued default of tenants under their leases or the expiration of tenant leases. If vacancies continue for a long period of time, we may suffer reduced revenues resulting in less cash to be distributed to stockholders. In addition, because properties' market values depend principally upon the value of the properties' leases, the resale value of properties with prolonged vacancies could suffer, which could further reduce your return. 19We may obtain only limited warranties when we purchase a property and would have only limited recourse if our due diligence did not identify any issues that lower the value of our property, which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to make distributions to you. The seller of a property often sells such property in its "as is" condition on a "where is" basis and "with all faults," without any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular use or purpose. In addition, purchase agreements may contain only limited warranties, representations and indemnifications that will only survive for a limited period after the closing. The purchase of properties with limited warranties increases the risk that we may lose some or all our invested capital in the property as well as the loss of rental income from that property. We may be unable to secure funds for future tenant improvements or capital needs, which could adversely impact our ability to pay cash distributions to our stockholders. When tenants do not renew their leases or otherwise vacate their space, it is usual that, in order to attract replacement tenants, we will be required to expend substantial funds for tenant improvements and tenant refurbishments to the vacated space. In addition, we will likely be responsible for any major structural repairs, such as repairs to the foundation, exterior walls and rooftops, even if our leases with tenants require tenants to pay routine property maintenance costs. We will use substantially all of our offering's gross proceeds to buy real estate and pay various fees and expenses. We intend to reserve only 0.1% of the gross proceeds from our offering for future capital needs. Accordingly, if we need additional capital in the future to improve or maintain our properties or for any other reason, we will have to obtain financing from other sources, such as cash flow from operations, borrowings, property sales or future equity offerings. These sources of funding may not be available on attractive terms or at all. If we cannot procure additional funding for capital improvements, our investments may generate lower cash flows or decline in value, or both. Our inability to sell a property when we desire to do so could adversely impact our ability to pay cash distributions to you. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct such defects or to make such improvements. Moreover, in acquiring a property, we may agree to restrictions that prohibit the sale of that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These provisions would restrict our ability to sell a property. We may not be able to sell our properties at a price equal to, or greater than, the price for which we purchased such property, which may lead to a decrease in the value of our assets. Many of our leases will not contain rental increases over time. Therefore, the value of the property to a potential purchaser may not increase over time, which may restrict our ability to sell a property, or if we are able to sell such property, may lead to a sale price less than the price that we paid to purchase the property. We may acquire or finance properties with lock-out provisions, which may prohibit us from selling a property, or may require us to maintain specified debt levels for a period of years on some properties, either of which could have an adverse affect on your investment. Lock-out provisions could materially restrict us from selling or otherwise disposing of or refinancing properties. These provisions would affect our ability to turn our investments into cash and thus affect cash available for distributions to you. Lock out provisions may prohibit us from reducing the outstanding indebtedness with respect to any properties, refinancing such indebtedness on a non-recourse basis at maturity, or increasing the amount of indebtedness with respect to such properties. Lock-out provisions could impair our ability to take other actions during the lock-out period that could be in the best interests of our stockholders and, therefore, may have an adverse impact on the value of the shares, relative to the value that would result if the lock-out provisions did not exist. In particular, lock-out provisions could preclude us from participating in major transactions that could result in a disposition of our assets or a change in control even though that disposition or change in control might be in the best interests of our stockholders. 20Rising expenses could reduce cash flow and funds available for future acquisitions, which could reduce our ability to pay cash distributions to you. Any properties that we now own or buy in the future will be subject to operating risks common to real estate in general, any or all of which may negatively affect us. If any property is not fully occupied or if rents are being paid in an amount that is insufficient to cover operating expenses, we could be required to expend funds with respect to that property for operating expenses. The properties will be subject to increases in tax rates, utility costs, operating expenses, insurance costs, repairs and maintenance and administrative expenses. If renewals of leases or future leases are not negotiated on a triple-net-lease basis or do not require the tenants to pay all or a portion of such expenses, we may have to pay those costs. If we are unable to lease properties on a triple-net-lease basis or on a basis requiring the tenants to pay all or some of such expenses, or if tenants fail to pay required tax, utility and other impositions, we could be required to pay those costs which could reduce funds available for future acquisitions or cash available for distributions. If we suffer losses that are not covered by insurance or that are in excess of insurance coverage, we could lose invested capital and anticipated profits. We carry comprehensive general liability coverage, property liability coverage and umbrella liability coverage on all our properties with limits of liability which we deem adequate to insure against liability claims and provide for the costs of defense. Similarly, we are insured against the risk of direct physical damage in amounts we estimate to be adequate to reimburse us on a replacement cost basis for costs incurred to repair or rebuild each property, including loss of rental income during the rehabilitation period. Material losses may occur in excess of insurance proceeds with respect to any property, as insurance may not be sufficient to fund the losses. However, there are types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses due to wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution or environmental matters, which are either uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be insured subject to limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. Insurance risks associated with potential terrorism acts could sharply increase the premiums we pay for coverage against property and casualty claims. Additionally, mortgage lenders in some cases have begun to insist that commercial property owners purchase specific coverage against terrorism as a condition for providing mortgage loans. It is uncertain whether such insurance policies will be available, or available at reasonable cost, which could inhibit our ability to finance or refinance our potential properties. In these instances, we may be required to provide other financial support, either through financial assurances or self-insurance, to cover potential losses. We may not have adequate, or any, coverage for such losses. If such an event damaged or destroyed one or more of our properties, we could lose both our invested capital and anticipated profits from such property. Real estate related taxes may increase and if these increases are not passed on to tenants, our income will be reduced, which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to you. Some local real property tax assessors may seek to reassess some of our properties as a result of our acquisition of the property. Generally, from time to time our property taxes increase as property values or assessment rates change or for other reasons deemed relevant by the assessors. An increase in the assessed valuation of a property for real estate tax purposes will result in an increase in the related real estate taxes on that property. There is no assurance that leases will be negotiated on a basis that passes such taxes on to the tenant. Increases not passed through to tenants will adversely affect our income, cash available for distributions, and the amount of distributions to you. CC&Rs may restrict our ability to operate a property. Some of our properties may be contiguous to other parcels of real property, comprising part of the same commercial center. In connection with such properties, there are significant covenants, conditions and restrictions, ("CC&Rs"), restricting the operation of such properties and any improvements on such properties, and related to granting easements on such properties. Moreover, the operation and management of the contiguous properties may impact such properties. Compliance with CC&Rs may adversely affect our operating costs and reduce the amount of funds that we have available to pay distributions. 21Our operating results may be negatively affected by potential development and construction delays and resultant increased costs and risks, which may adversely affect the value of your shares. We may use proceeds from our offering to acquire and develop properties upon which we will construct improvements. We will be subject to uncertainties associated with re-zoning for development, environmental concerns of governmental entities and/or community groups, and our builder's ability to build in conformity with plans, specifications, budgeted costs, and timetables. If a builder fails to perform, we may resort to legal action to rescind the purchase or the construction contract or to compel performance. A builder's performance also may be affected or delayed by conditions beyond the builder's control. Delays in completion of construction could also give tenants the right to terminate preconstruction leases. We may incur additional risks when we make periodic progress payments or other advances to builders before they complete construction. These and other such factors can result in increased costs of a project or loss of our investment. In addition, we will be subject to normal lease-up risks relating to newly constructed projects. We also must rely on rental income and expense projections and estimates of the fair market value of property upon completion of construction when agreeing upon a price at the time we acquire the property. If our projections are inaccurate, we may pay too much for a property, and our return on our investment could suffer. We may invest in unimproved real property. For purposes of this paragraph, "unimproved real property" does not include properties acquired for the purpose of producing rental or other operating income, properties under development or construction, and properties under contract for development or in planning for development within one year. Returns from development of unimproved properties are also subject to risks associated with re-zoning the land for development and environmental concerns of governmental entities and/or community groups. If we invest in unimproved property other than property we intend to develop, your investment will be subject to the risks associated with investments in unimproved real property. Competition with third parties in acquiring properties and other investments may reduce our profitability and the return on your investment. We compete with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities, including individuals, corporations, bank and insurance company investment accounts, other REITs, real estate limited partnerships, and other entities engaged in real estate investment activities, many of which have greater resources than we do. Larger REITs may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investments may increase. Any such increase would result in increased demand for these assets and therefore increased prices paid for them. If we pay higher prices for properties and other investments, our profitability will be reduced and you may experience a lower return on your investment. Our properties face competition that may affect tenants' ability to pay rent and the amount of rent paid to us may affect the cash available for distributions and the amount of distributions. Our properties typically are, and we expect will be, located in developed areas such as the New York MSA. Therefore, there are and will be numerous other properties within the market area of each of our properties that will compete with us for tenants. The number of competitive properties could have a material effect on our ability to rent space at our properties and the amount of rents charged. We could be adversely affected if additional competitive properties are built in locations competitive with our properties, causing increased competition for customer traffic and creditworthy tenants. This could result in decreased cash flow from tenants and may require us to make capital improvements to properties that we would not have otherwise made, thus affecting cash available for distributions, and the amount available for distributions to you. We may be unable to renew leases, lease vacant space or re-lease space as leases expire, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, cash available for distribution and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations. We cannot assure you that leases will be renewed or that our properties will be re-leased at rental rates equal to or above our existing rental rates or that substantial rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or tenant-favorable renewal options will not be offered to attract new tenants or retain existing tenants. If the rental rates of our properties decrease, our existing tenants do not renew their leases or we do not re-lease a significant portion of our available space and space for which leases will expire, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and to satisfy our principal and interest obligations would be adversely affected. Moreover, the resale value of our property could be diminished because the market value of the property depends upon the value of the leases of the property. 22Delays in acquisitions of properties may have an adverse effect on your investment. There may be a substantial period of time before the proceeds of our offering are invested. Delays we encounter in the selection, acquisition and/or development of properties could adversely affect your returns. Where properties are acquired prior to the start of construction or during the early stages of construction, it will typically take several months to complete construction and rent available space. Therefore, you could suffer delays in the payment of cash distributions attributable to those particular properties. Costs of complying with governmental laws and regulations, including those relating to environmental matters, may adversely affect our income and the cash available for any distributions. All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. These laws and regulations generally govern wastewater discharges, air emissions, the operation and removal of underground and above-ground storage tanks, the use, storage, treatment, transportation and disposal of solid and hazardous materials, and the remediation of contamination associated with disposals. Environmental laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability on tenants, owners or operators for the costs to investigate or remediate contaminated properties, regardless of fault or whether the acts causing the contamination were legal. This liability could be substantial. In addition, the presence of hazardous substances, or the failure to properly remediate these substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell, rent or pledge such property as collateral for future borrowings. Some of these laws and regulations have been amended so as to require compliance with new or more stringent standards as of future dates. Compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations or stricter interpretation of existing laws may require material expenditures by us. Future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material environmental liability. Additionally, our tenants' operations, the existing condition of land when we buy it, operations in the vicinity of our properties, such as the presence of underground storage tanks, or activities of unrelated third parties may affect our properties. In addition, there are various local, state and federal fire, health, life-safety and similar regulations with which we may be required to comply, and that may subject us to liability in the form of fines or damages for noncompliance. Any material expenditures, fines, or damages we must pay will reduce our ability to make distributions and may reduce the value of your investment. State and federal laws in this area are constantly evolving. We intend to obtain environmental assessments of most properties that we acquire; however, we will not obtain an independent third-party environmental assessment for every property we acquire. In addition, any such assessment that we do obtain may not reveal all environmental liabilities or that a prior owner of a property did not create a material environmental condition not known to us. The cost of defending against claims of liability, of compliance with environmental regulatory requirements, of remediating any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury claims would materially adversely affect our business, assets or results of operations and, consequently, amounts available for distribution to you. If we sell properties by providing financing to purchasers, defaults by the purchasers would adversely affect our cash flows and our ability to make distributions to you. If we decide to sell any of our properties, we intend to use our best efforts to sell them for cash. However, in some instances we may sell our properties by providing financing to purchasers. When we provide financing to purchasers, we will bear the risk that the purchaser may default, which could negatively impact our cash distributions to stockholders. Even in the absence of a purchaser default, the distribution of the proceeds of sales to our stockholders, or their reinvestment in other assets, will be delayed until the promissory notes or other property we may accept upon the sale are actually paid, sold, refinanced or otherwise disposed of. In some cases, we may receive initial down payments in cash and other property in the year of sale in an amount less than the selling price and subsequent payments will be spread over a number of years. If any purchaser defaults under a financing arrangement with us, it could negatively impact our ability to pay cash distributions to our stockholders. Our recovery of an investment in a mortgage, bridge or mezzanine loan that has defaulted may be limited, resulting in losses to us and reducing the amount of funds available to pay distributions to you. There is no guarantee that the mortgage, loan or deed of trust securing an investment will, following a default, permit us to recover the original investment and interest that would have been received absent a default. The security provided by a mortgage, deed of trust or loan is directly related to the difference between the amount owed and the appraised market value of the property. Even though we intend to rely on a current real estate appraisal when we make the investment, the value of the property is affected by factors outside our control, including general fluctuations in the real estate market, rezoning, neighborhood changes, highway relocations and failure by the borrower to maintain the property. In addition, we may incur the costs of litigation in our efforts to enforce our rights under defaulted loans. 23Joint venture investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on the financial condition of co-venturers and disputes between us and our co-venturers. We are curently party to two joint ventures and may enter into other partnerships and co-ownership arrangements (including preferred equity investments) for the purpose of making investments. We are not in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding such joint ventures. Investments in joint ventures may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt or fail to fund their required capital contributions. Co-venturers may have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor the co-venturer would have full control over the joint venture. Disputes between us and co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, actions by or disputes with co-venturers might result in subjecting properties owned by the joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our co-venturers.Our costs associated with complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act may affect cash available for distributions. Our properties will be subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the "Disabilities Act"). Under the Disabilities Act, all places of public accommodation are required to comply with federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. The Disabilities Act has separate compliance requirements for "public accommodations" and "commercial facilities" that generally require that buildings and services, including restaurants and retail stores, be made accessible and available to people with disabilities. The Disabilities Act's requirements could require removal of access barriers and could result in the imposition of injunctive relief, monetary penalties, or, in some cases, an award of damages. We cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire properties that comply with the Disabilities Act or place the burden on the seller or other third party, such as a tenant, to ensure compliance with the Disabilities Act. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire properties or allocate responsibilities in this manner. If we cannot, our funds used for Disabilities Act compliance may affect cash available for distributions and the amount of distributions to you. Economic conditions may adversely affect our income and we could be subject to risks associated with acquiring discounted real estate assets. U.S. and international markets are recently have experienced increased levels of volatility due to a combination of many factors, including decreasing values of home prices, limited access to credit markets, higher fuel prices, less consumer spending and fears of a national and global recession. The effects of such market dislocation may persist as financial institutions continue to take the necessary steps to restructure their business and capital structures. As a result, this economic downturn has reduced demand for space and removed support for rents and property values. Since we cannot predict how well the real estate markets will recover, the value of our properties may decline if current market conditions persist or worsen. In addition, we will be subject to the risks generally incident to the ownership of discounted real estate assets. Such assets may be purchased at a discount from historical cost due to, among other things, substantial deferred maintenance, abandonment, undesirable locations or markets, or poorly structured financing of the real estate or debt instruments underlying the assets, which has since lowered their value. Further, the continuing instability in the financial markets has limited the availability of lines of credit and the degree to which people and entities have access to cash to pay rents or debt service on the underlying the assets. Such illiquidity has the effect of increasing vacancies, increasing bankruptcies and weakening interest rates commercial entities can charge consumers, which can all decrease the value of already discounted real estate assets. Should conditions worsen, the continued inability of the underlying real estate assets to produce income may weaken our return on our investments, which, in turn, may weaken your return on investment. Further, irrespective of the instability the financial markets may have on the return produced by discounted real estate assets, the evolving efforts to correct the instability make the valuation of such assets highly unpredictable. The fluctuation in market conditions make judging the future performance of such assets difficult. There is a risk that we may not purchase real estate assets at absolute discounted rates and that such assets may continue to decline in value. 24Potential changes in U.S. accounting standards regarding operating leases may make the leasing of our properties less attractive to our potential tenants, which could reduce overall demand for our leasing services. Under current authoritative accounting guidance for leases, a lease is classified by a tenant as a capital lease if the significant risks and rewards of ownership are considered to reside with the tenant. Under capital lease accounting for a tenant, both the leased asset and liability are reflected on their balance sheet. If the lease does not meet any of the criteria for a capital lease, the lease is considered an operating lease by the tenant, and the obligation does not appear on the tenant's balance sheet; rather, the contractual future minimum payment obligations are only disclosed in the footnotes thereto. Thus, entering into an operating lease can appear to enhance a tenant's balance sheet in comparison to direct ownership. The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") and the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB") conducted a joint project to re-evaluate lease accounting. In August 2010, the FASB and the IASB jointly released exposure drafts of a proposed accounting model that would significantly change lease accounting. Final standards have yet to be issued. Changes to the accounting guidance could affect both our accounting for leases as well as that of our current and potential tenants. These changes may affect how the real estate leasing business is conducted. For example, if the accounting standards regarding the financial statement classification of operating leases are revised, then companies may be less willing to enter into leases in general or desire to enter into leases with shorter terms because the apparent benefits to their balance sheets could be reduced or eliminated. This in turn could cause a delay in investing our offering proceeds and make it more difficult for us to enter into leases on terms we find favorable.Retail Industry Risks Retail conditions may adversely affect our income. A retail property's revenues and value may be adversely affected by a number of factors, many of which apply to real estate investment generally, but which also include trends in the retail industry and perceptions by retailers or shoppers of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of the retail property. In addition, to the extent that the investing public has a negative perception of the retail sector, the value of our common stock may be negatively impacted. Some of our leases may provide for base rent plus contractual base rent increases. A number of our retail leases also may include a percentage rent clause for additional rent above the base amount based upon a specified percentage of the sales our tenants generate. Under those leases which contain percentage rent clauses, our revenue from tenants may increase as the sales of our tenants increase. Generally, retailers face declining revenues during downturns in the economy. As a result, the portion of our revenue which we may derive from percentage rent leases could decline upon a general economic downturn. Our revenue will be impacted by the success and economic viability of our anchor retail tenants. Our reliance on single or significant tenants in certain buildings may decrease our ability to lease vacated space. In the retail sector, any tenant occupying a large portion of the gross leasable area of a retail center, a tenant of any of the triple-net single-user retail properties outside the primary geographical area of investment, commonly referred to as an anchor tenant, or a tenant that is our anchor tenant at more than one retail center, may become insolvent, may suffer a downturn in business, or may decide not to renew its lease. Any of these events would result in a reduction or cessation in rental payments to us and would adversely affect our financial condition. A lease termination by an anchor tenant could result in lease terminations or reductions in rent by other tenants whose leases permit cancellation or rent reduction if another tenant's lease is terminated. We may own properties where the tenants may have rights to terminate their leases if certain other tenants are no longer open for business. These "co-tenancy" provisions also may exist in some leases where we own a portion of a retail property and one or more of the anchor tenants leases space in that portion of the center not owned or controlled by us. If such tenants were to vacate their space, tenants with co-tenancy provisions would have the right to terminate their leases with us or seek a rent reduction from us. In such event, we may be unable to re-lease the vacated space. Similarly, the leases of some anchor tenants may permit the anchor tenant to transfer its lease to another retailer. The transfer to a new anchor tenant could cause customer traffic in the retail center to decrease and thereby reduce the income generated by that retail center. A lease transfer to a new anchor tenant could also allow other tenants to make reduced rental payments or to terminate their leases at the retail center. If we are unable to re-lease the vacated space to a new anchor tenant, we may incur additional expenses in order to re-model the space to be able to re-lease the space to more than one tenant. Competition with other retail channels may reduce our profitability and the return on your investment. If we acquire retail properties, our retail tenants will face potentially changing consumer preferences and increasing competition from other forms of retailing, such as discount shopping centers, outlet centers, upscale neighborhood strip centers, catalogues and other forms of direct marketing, discount shopping clubs, internet websites and telemarketing. Other retail centers within the market area of our properties will compete with our properties for customers, affecting their tenants' cash flows and thus affecting their ability to pay rent. In addition, some of our tenants' rent payments may be based on the amount of sales revenue that they generate. If these tenants experience competition, the amount of their rent may decrease and our cash flow will decrease. 25Office Industry Risks Declines in overall activity in our markets may adversely affect the performance of our office properties. Rental income from office properties fluctuates with general market and economic conditions. Our office properties may be adversely affected by market or economic challenges experienced by the U.S. economy or real estate industry as a whole. Because our portfolio will include commercial office buildings located principally in the New York MSA, if economic conditions persist or deteriorate, then our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service current debt and to pay distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected by the following potential conditions, among others: •that significant job losses in the financial and professional services industries have occurred and may continue to occur, which may decrease demand for our office space, causing market rental rates and property values to be negatively impacted;•that our ability to borrow on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, or at all, may be limited, which could reduce our ability to pursue acquisition and development opportunities and refinance existing debt, reduce our returns from both our existing operations and our acquisition and development activities and increase our future interest expense;•that reduced values of our properties may limit our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices or to obtain debt financing secured by our properties and may reduce the availability of unsecured loans; and•that reduced liquidity in debt markets and increased credit risk premiums for certain market participants may impair our ability to access capital.These conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions, may continue or worsen in the future. We also may experience a decrease in occupancy and rental rates accompanied by increases in the cost of re-leasing space (including for tenant improvements) and in uncollectible receivables. Early lease terminations may significantly contribute to a decline in occupancy of our office properties and may adversely affect our profitability. While lease termination fees increase current period income, future rental income may be diminished because, during periods in which market rents decline, it is unlikely that we will collect from replacement tenants the full contracted amount which had been payable under the terminated leases. The loss of anchor tenants for our office properties could adversely affect our profitability. We may acquire office properties and, as with our retail properties, we are subject to the risk that tenants may be unable to make their lease payments or may decline to extend a lease upon its expiration. A lease termination by a tenant that occupies a large area of space in one of our office properties (commonly referred to as an anchor tenant) could impact leases of other tenants. Other tenants may be entitled to modify the terms of their existing leases in the event of a lease termination by an anchor tenant or the closure of the business of an anchor tenant that leaves its space vacant, even if the anchor tenant continues to pay rent. Any such modifications or conditions could be unfavorable to us as the property owner and could decrease rents or expense recoveries. In the event of default by an anchor tenant, we may experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord to recover amounts due to us under the terms of our agreements with those parties. Residential Industry Risks The short-term nature of our residential leases may adversely impact our income. If our residents decide not to renew their leases upon expiration, we may not be able to relet their units. Because substantially all our residential leases will be for apartments, they generally will be for terms of no more than one or two years. If we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the units then our results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Certain significant expenditures associated with each equity investment in real estate (such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs) are generally not reduced when circumstances result in a reduction in rental income. An economic downturn could adversely affect the residential industry and may affect operations for the residential properties that we acquire. As a result of the effects of an economic downturn, including increased unemployment rates, the residential industry may experience a significant decline in business caused by a reduction in overall renters. The current economic downturn and increase in unemployment rates may have an adverse affect on our operations if the tenants occupying the residential properties we acquire cease making rent payments to us. Moreover, low residential mortgage interest rates could accompany an economic downturn and encourage potential renters to purchase residences rather than lease them. The residential properties we acquire may experience declines in occupancy rate due to any such decline in residential mortgage interest rates. 26Lodging Industry Risks The hotel industry is very competitive and seasonal and has been affected by economic slowdowns, terrorist attacks and other world events. The hotel industry is intensely competitive and seasonal in nature and has been affected by the current economic slowdown, terrorist attacks, military activity in the Middle East, natural disasters and other world events impacting the global economy and the travel and hotel industries, and, as a result, our lodging properties may be adversely affected. Since the hotel industry is intensely competitive, our third-party management company and our third-party tenants may be unable to compete successfully or if our competitors' marketing strategies are more effective, our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows including our ability to service debt and to make distributions to our stockholders, may be adversely affected. In particular, as a result of terrorist attacks around the world, the war in Iraq and the effects of the economic recession, subsequent to 2001 the lodging industry experienced a significant decline in business caused by a reduction in both business and leisure travel. Our business and lodging properties may continue to be affected by such events, including our hotel occupancy levels and average daily rates, and, as a result, our revenues may decrease or not increase to levels we expect. Since we do not intend to operate our lodging properties, our revenues depend on the ability of our third-party management company and our-third party tenants to compete successfully with other hotels in the New York MSA. Some of our competitors have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than we do. If our third-party management company and our third-party tenants are unable to compete successfully, including competition from Internet intermediaries, or if our competitors' marketing strategies are effective, our results of operations, financial condition, ability to service debt and ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected. In addition, the seasonality of the hotel industry can be expected to cause quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and also may be adversely affected by factors outside our control, such as extreme or unexpectedly mild weather conditions or natural disasters, terrorist attacks or alerts, outbreaks of contagious diseases, airline strikes, economic factors and other considerations affecting travel. To the extent that cash flows from operations are insufficient during any quarter, due to temporary or seasonal fluctuations in revenues, we may attempt to borrow in order to make distributions to our stockholders or be required to reduce other expenditures or distributions to stockholders. Our profitability may be adversely affected by unstable market and business conditions and insufficient demand for lodging due to reduced business and leisure travel. Our hotels will be subject to all the risks common to the hotel industry and subject to market conditions that affect all hotel properties. These risks could adversely affect hotel occupancy and the rates that can be charged for hotel rooms as well as hotel operating expenses, and generally include: •increases in supply of hotel rooms that exceed increases in demand;•increases in energy costs and other travel expenses that reduce business and leisure travel;•reduced business and leisure travel due to continued geo-political uncertainty, including terrorism;•adverse effects of declines in general and local economic activity;•adverse effects of a downturn in the hotel industry; and•risks generally associated with the ownership of hotels and real estate, as discussed below.We do not have control over the market and business conditions that affect the value of our lodging properties, and adverse changes with respect to such conditions could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Hotel properties are subject to varying degrees of risk generally common to the ownership of hotels, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: •increased competition from other existing hotels in our markets;•new hotels entering our markets, which may adversely affect the occupancy levels and average daily rates of our lodging properties;•declines in business and leisure travel;•increases in energy costs, increased threat of terrorism, terrorist events, airline strikes or other factors that may affect travel patterns and reduce the number of business and leisure travelers;•increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors that may not be offset by increased room rates;•changes in, and the related costs of compliance with, governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances; and•adverse effects of international, national, regional and local economic and market conditions.27Adverse changes in any or all these factors could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, thereby adversely impacting our ability to service debt and to make distributions to our stockholders. As a REIT, we cannot directly operate our lodging properties, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and our cash flows, which could impact our ability to service debt and make distributions to our stockholders. We cannot and will not directly operate our lodging properties and, as a result, our results of operations, financial position, ability to service debt and our ability to make distributions to stockholders are dependent on the ability of our third-party management companies and our tenants to operate our hotel properties successfully. In order for us to satisfy certain REIT qualification rules, we cannot directly operate any lodging properties we may acquire or actively participate in the decisions affecting their daily operations. Instead, through a taxable REIT subsidiary, or TRS, we must enter into management agreements with a third-party management company, or we must lease our lodging properties to third-party tenants on a triple-net lease basis. We cannot and will not control this third-party management company or the tenants who operate and are responsible for maintenance and other day-to-day management of our lodging properties, including, but not limited to, the implementation of significant operating decisions. Thus, even if we believe our lodging properties are being operated inefficiently or in a manner that does not result in satisfactory operating results, we may not be able to require the third-party management company or the tenants to change their method of operation of our lodging properties. Our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and our ability to service debt and to make distributions to stockholders are, therefore, dependent on the ability of our third-party management company and tenants to operate our lodging properties successfully. Any negative publicity or other adverse developments that affect that operator and/or its affiliated brands generally may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and consequently cash flows thereby impacting our ability to service debt, and to make distributions to our stockholders. There can be no assurance that our affiliate continues to manage any lodging properties we acquire. We will rely on a third-party hotel management company to establish and maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting at our lodging properties. In doing this, the Property Manager should have policies and procedures in place which allow it to effectively monitor and report to us the operating results of our lodging properties which ultimately are included in our consolidated financial statements. Because the operations of our lodging properties ultimately become a component of our consolidated financial statements, we evaluate the effectiveness of the internal controls over financial reporting at all our properties, including our lodging properties, in connection with the certifications we provide in our quarterly and annual reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K, respectively, pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. However, we will not control the design or implementation of or changes to internal controls at any of our lodging properties. Thus, even if we believe that our lodging properties are being operated without effective internal controls, we may not be able to require the third-party management company to change its internal control structure. This could require us to implement extensive and possibly inefficient controls at a parent level in an attempt to mitigate such deficiencies. If such controls are not effective, the accuracy of the results of our operations that we report could be affected. Accordingly, our ability to conclude that, as a company, our internal controls are effective is significantly dependent upon the effectiveness of internal controls that our third-party management company will implement at our lodging properties. It is possible that we could have a significant deficiency or material weakness as a result of the ineffectiveness of the internal controls at one or more of our lodging properties. If we replace a third-party management company or tenant, we may be required by the terms of the relevant management agreement or lease to pay substantial termination fees, and we may experience significant disruptions at the affected lodging properties. We may not be able to make arrangements with a third-party management company or tenants with substantial prior lodging experience in the future. If we experience such disruptions, it may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and our cash flows, including our ability to service debt and to make distributions to our stockholders. Industrial Industry Risks Potential liability as the result of, and the cost of compliance with, environmental matters is greater if we invest in industrial properties or lease our properties to tenants that engage in industrial activities. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on such property. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. We may invest in properties historically used for industrial, manufacturing and commercial purposes. Some of these properties are more likely to contain, or may have contained, underground storage tanks for the storage of petroleum products and other hazardous or toxic substances. All of these operations create a potential for the release of petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. 28Leasing properties to tenants that engage in industrial, manufacturing and commercial activities will cause us to be subject to increased risk of liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to properly remediate these substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell, rent or pledge such property as collateral for future borrowings. The demand for and profitability of our industrial properties may be adversely affected by fluctuations in manufacturing activity in the United States. Our industrial properties may be adversely affected if manufacturing activity decreases in the United States. Trade agreements with foreign countries have given employers the option to utilize less expensive non-US manufacturing workers. The outsourcing of manufacturing functions could lower the demand for our industrial properties. Moreover, an increase in the cost of raw materials or decrease in the demand of housing could cause a slowdown in manufacturing activity, such as furniture, textiles, machinery and chemical products, and our profitability may be adversely affected. Our portfolio may be negatively impacted by a high concentration of industrial tenants in a single industry. If we invest in industrial properties, we may lease properties to tenants that engage in similar industrial, manufacturing and commercial activities. A high concentration of tenants in a specific industry would magnify the adverse impact that a downturn in such industry might otherwise have to our portfolio. Risks Associated with Debt Financing and Investments We have broad authority to incur debt, and high levels of debt could hinder our ability to make distributions and could decrease the value of your investment.We expect that in most instances, we will acquire real properties by using either existing financing or borrowing new funds. In addition, we may incur mortgage debt and pledge all or some of our real properties as security for that debt to obtain funds to acquire additional real properties. We may borrow if we need funds to satisfy the REIT tax qualification requirement that we distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income to our stockholders. We also may borrow if we otherwise deem it necessary or advisable to assure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT. Our Advisor believes that utilizing borrowing is consistent with our investment objective of maximizing the return to investors. There is no limitation on the amount we may borrow against any single improved property. Under our charter, our borrowings may not exceed 300% of our total "net assets" (as defined in our charter and in accordance with the NASAA REIT Guidelines) as of the date of any borrowing, which is generally expected to be approximately 75% of the cost of our investments; however, we may exceed that limit if approved by a majority of our independent directors and disclosed to stockholders in our next quarterly report following such borrowing along with justification for exceeding such limit. This charter limitation, however, does not apply to individual real estate assets or investments. In addition, it is our intention to limit our borrowings to 40% to 50% of the aggregate fair market value of our assets (calculated after the close of our offering and once we have invested substantially all the proceeds of our offering), unless excess borrowing is approved by a majority of the independent directors and disclosed to stockholders in our next quarterly report following such borrowing along with justification for such excess borrowing. This limitation, however, will not apply to individual real estate assets or investments. At the date of acquisition of each asset, we anticipate that that the cost of investment for such asset will be substantially similar to its fair market value, which will enable us to satisfy our requirements under the NASAA REIT Guidelines. However, subsequent events, including changes in the fair market value of our assets, could result in our exceeding these limits. We expect that during the period of our offering we will seek independent director approval of borrowings in excess of these limitations since we will then be in the process of raising our equity capital to acquire our portfolio. As a result, we expect that our debt levels will be higher until we have invested most of our capital. High debt levels would cause us to incur higher interest charges, would result in higher debt service payments and could be accompanied by restrictive covenants. These factors could limit the amount of cash we have available to distribute and could result in a decline in the value of your investment.29If there is a shortfall between the cash flow from a property and the cash flow needed to service mortgage debt on a property, then the amount available for distributions to stockholders may be reduced. In addition, incurring mortgage debt increases the risk of loss since defaults on indebtedness secured by a property may result in lenders initiating foreclosure actions. In that case, we could lose the property securing the loan that is in default, thus reducing the value of your investment. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds. In such event, we may be unable to pay the amount of distributions required in order to maintain our REIT status. We may give full or partial guarantees to lenders of mortgage debt to the entities that own our properties. When we provide a guaranty on behalf of an entity that owns one of our properties, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by such entity. If any mortgages contain cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions, a default on a single property could affect multiple properties. If any of our properties are foreclosed upon due to a default, our ability to pay cash distributions to our stockholders will be adversely affected which could result in our losing our REIT status and would result in a decrease in the value of your investment. The current state of debt markets could have a material adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. The domestic and international commercial real estate debt markets are currently experiencing a tightening of underwriting standards by lenders and credit rating agencies. This is resulting in lenders increasing the cost for debt financing. Should the overall cost of borrowings increase, either by increases in the index rates or by increases in lender spreads, we will need to factor such increases into the economics of future acquisitions. This may result in future acquisitions generating lower overall economic returns and potentially reducing future cash flow available for distribution. If these disruptions in the debt markets persist, our ability to borrow monies to finance the purchase of, or other activities related to, real estate assets will be negatively impacted. If we are unable to borrow monies on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, we likely will have to reduce the number of properties we can purchase, and the return on the properties we do purchase may be lower. In addition, we may find it difficult, costly or impossible to refinance indebtedness which is maturing. In addition, the state of the debt markets could have an impact on the overall amount of capital invested in real estate which may result in price or value decreases of real estate assets. This could negatively impact the current value of our existing assets. High mortgage rates may make it difficult for us to finance or refinance properties, which could reduce the number of properties we can acquire and the amount of cash distributions we can make. If we place mortgage debt on properties, we run the risk of being unable to refinance the properties when the loans come due, or of being unable to refinance on favorable terms. If interest rates are higher when the properties are refinanced, we may not be able to finance the properties and our income could be reduced. If any of these events occur, our cash flow would be reduced. This, in turn, would reduce cash available for distribution to you and may hinder our ability to raise more capital by issuing more stock or by borrowing more money. Lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations, which could limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In connection with providing us financing, a lender could impose restrictions on us that affect our distribution and operating policies and our ability to incur additional debt. Loan documents we enter into may contain covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the property, discontinue insurance coverage or replace our Advisor. These or other limitations may adversely affect our flexibility and our ability to achieve our investment and operating objectives. Increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our debt payments and adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. We expect that we will incur indebtedness in the future. To the extent that we incur variable rate debt, increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs, which could reduce our cash flows and our ability to pay distributions to you. In addition, if we need to repay existing debt during periods of rising interest rates, we could be required to liquidate one or more of our investments in properties at times that may not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments. We may invest in collateralized mortgage-backed securities, which may increase our exposure to credit and interest rate risk and the risks of the securitization process. We may invest in CMBS, which may increase our exposure to credit and interest rate risk. We have not adopted, and do not expect to adopt, any formal policies or procedures designed to manage risks associated with our investments in CMBS. In this context, credit risk is the risk that borrowers will default on the mortgages underlying the CMBS. 30Interest rate risk occurs as prevailing market interest rates change relative to the current yield on the CMBS. For example, when interest rates fall, borrowers are more likely to prepay their existing mortgages to take advantage of the lower cost of financing. As prepayments occur, principal is returned to the holders of the CMBS sooner than expected, thereby lowering the effective yield on the investment. On the other hand, when interest rates rise, borrowers are more likely to maintain their existing mortgages. As a result, prepayments decrease, thereby extending the average maturity of the mortgages underlying the CMBS. CMBS are also subject to several risks created through the securitization process. Subordinate CMBS are paid interest only to the extent that there are funds available to make payments. To the extent the collateral pool includes delinquent loans, there is a risk that the interest payment on subordinate CMBS will not be fully paid. Subordinate CMBS are also subject to greater credit risk than those CMBS that are more highly rated. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively, our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to you will be adversely affected. Any real estate debt security that we originate or purchase is subject to the risks of delinquency and foreclosure. We may originate and purchase real estate debt securities, which are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure and risks of loss. Typically, we will not have recourse to the personal assets of our borrowers. The ability of a borrower to repay a real estate debt security secured by an income-producing property depends primarily upon the successful operation of the property, rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the real estate debt security may be impaired. A property's net operating income can be affected by, among other things: •increased costs, added costs imposed by franchisors for improvements or operating changes required, from time to time, under the franchise agreements;•property management decisions;•property location and condition;•competition from comparable types of properties;•changes in specific industry segments;•declines in regional or local real estate values, or occupancy rates; and•increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses.We bear the risks of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the real estate debt security, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations and limit amounts available for distribution to you. In the event of the bankruptcy of a real estate debt security borrower, the real estate debt security to that borrower will be deemed to be collateralized only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the real estate debt security will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a real estate debt security can be an expensive and lengthy process that could have a substantial negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed real estate debt security. We also may be forced to foreclose on certain properties, be unable to sell these properties and be forced to incur substantial expenses to improve operations at the property. 31U.S. Federal Income Tax Risks Our failure to remain qualified as a REIT would subject us to U.S. federal income tax and potentially state and local tax, and would adversely affect our operations and the market price of our common stock. We believe that we have qualified to be taxed as a REIT commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2010, and intend to operate in a manner that would allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT. However, we may terminate our REIT qualification, if our board of directors determines that not qualifying as a REIT is in the best interests of our stockholders, or inadvertently. Our qualification as a REIT depends upon our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. However, the REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex and interpretation of the U.S. federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT is limited. Furthermore, any opinion of our counsel, including tax counsel, as to our eligibility to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and is not a guarantee that we will qualify, or continue to qualify, as a REIT. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in operating so we can qualify or remain qualified as a REIT. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends on our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT income or quarterly asset requirements also depends on our ability to successfully manage the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. Accordingly, if certain of our operations were to be recharacterized by the IRS, such recharacterization would jeopardize our ability to satisfy all the requirements for qualification as a REIT. Furthermore, future legislative, judicial or administrative changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws could be applied retroactively, which could result in our disqualification as a REIT. If we fail to continue to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates. In addition, we would generally be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year of losing our REIT qualification. Losing our REIT qualification would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability. In addition, distributions to stockholders would no longer qualify for the dividends paid deduction, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. If this occurs, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax. Even if we fail to qualify as a REIT, in certain circumstances, we may incur tax liabilities that would reduce our cash available for distribution to you. Even if we qualify and maintain our status as a REIT, we may be subject to U.S. federal, state and local income taxes. For example, net income from the sale of properties that are "dealer" properties sold by a REIT (a "prohibited transaction" under the Code) will be subject to a 100% tax. We may not make sufficient distributions to avoid excise taxes applicable to REITs. We also may decide to retain net capital gain we earn from the sale or other disposition of our property and pay U.S. federal income tax directly on such income. In that event, our stockholders would be treated as if they earned that income and paid the tax on it directly. However, stockholders that are tax-exempt, such as charities or qualified pension plans, would have no benefit from their deemed payment of such tax liability unless they file U.S. federal income tax returns and thereon seek a refund of such tax. We also will be subject to corporate tax on any undistributed REIT taxable income.We also may be subject to state and local taxes on our income or property, including franchise, payroll and transfer taxes, either directly or at the level of our Operating Partnership or at the level of the other companies through which we indirectly own our assets, such as our TRSs, which are subject to full U.S. federal, state, local and foreign corporate-level income taxes. Any taxes we pay directly or indirectly will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. To qualify as a REIT we must meet annual distribution requirements, which may force us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities or borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions. This could delay or hinder our ability to meet our investment objectives and reduce your overall return. In order to qualify and maintain our status as a REIT, we must annually distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (which does not equal net income, as calculated in accordance with GAAP), determined without regard to the deduction for distributions paid and excluding net capital gain. We will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our undistributed REIT taxable income and net capital gain and to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on any amount by which distributions we pay with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of (i) 85% of our ordinary income, (ii) 95% of our capital gain net income and (iii) 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. These requirements could cause us to distribute amounts that otherwise would be spent on investments in real estate assets and it is possible that we might be required to borrow funds, possibly at unfavorable rates, or sell assets to fund these distributions. Although we intend to make distributions sufficient to meet the annual distribution requirements and to avoid U.S. federal income and excise taxes on our earnings while we qualify as a REIT, it is possible that we might not always be able to do so. 32Certain of our business activities are potentially subject to the prohibited transaction tax, which could reduce the return on your investment. For so long as we qualify as a REIT, our ability to dispose of property during the first few years following acquisition is restricted to a substantial extent as a result of our REIT qualification. Under applicable provisions of the Code regarding prohibited transactions by REITs, while we qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on any gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of any property (other than foreclosure property) that we own, directly or through any subsidiary entity, including our operating partnership, but generally excluding our TRSs, that is deemed to be inventory or property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business. Whether property is inventory or otherwise held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business depends on the particular facts and circumstances surrounding each property. While we qualify as a REIT, we avoid the 100% prohibited transaction tax by (1) conducting activities that may otherwise be considered prohibited transactions through a TRS (but such TRS will incur corporate rate income taxes with respect to any income or gain recognized by it), (2) conducting our operations in such a manner so that no sale or other disposition of an asset we own, directly or through any subsidiary, will be treated as a prohibited transaction or (3) structuring certain dispositions of our properties to comply with the requirements of the prohibited transaction safe harbor available under the Code for properties that, among other requirements have been held for at least two years. Despite our present intention, no assurance can be given that any particular property we own, directly or through any subsidiary entity, including our operating partnership, but generally excluding our TRSs, will not be treated as inventory or property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business. Our TRSs are subject to corporate-level taxes and our dealings with our TRSs may be subject to 100% excise tax. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRS. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 25% of the value of a REIT's assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRS. A TRS may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT, including gross income from operations pursuant to management contracts. We must operate our "qualified lodging facilities" through one or more TRS that lease such properties from us. We may use our TRSs generally for other activities as well, such as to hold properties for sale in the ordinary course of business or to hold assets or conduct activities that we cannot conduct directly as a REIT. A TRS will be subject to applicable U.S. federal, state, local and foreign income tax on its taxable income. In addition, the rules, which are applicable to us as a REIT, also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm's-length basis. If our leases to our TRSs are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT. To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy two gross income tests, under which specified percentages of our gross income must be derived from certain sources, such as "rents from real property." In order for such rent to qualify as "rents from real property" for purposes of the REIT gross income tests, the leases must be respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes and not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. If our leases are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT. If our operating partnership failed to qualify as a partnership or is not otherwise disregarded for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would cease to qualify as a REIT. We intend to maintain the status of the operating partnership as a partnership or a disregarded entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, if the IRS were to successfully challenge the status of the operating partnership as a partnership or disregarded entity for such purposes, it would be taxable as a corporation. In such event, this would reduce the amount of distributions that the operating partnership could make to us. This also would result in our failing to qualify as a REIT, and becoming subject to a corporate level tax on our income. This substantially would reduce our cash available to pay distributions and the yield on your investment. In addition, if any of the partnerships or limited liability companies through which the operating partnership owns its properties, in whole or in part, loses its characterization as a partnership and is otherwise not disregarded for U.S. federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to taxation as a corporation, thereby reducing distributions to the operating partnership. Such a recharacterization of an underlying property owner could also threaten our ability to maintain our REIT qualification. 33If our "qualified lodging facilities" are not properly leased to a TRS or the managers of such "qualified lodging facilities" do not qualify as "eligible independent contractors," we could fail to qualify as a REIT. In general, we cannot operate any lodging facilities and can only indirectly participate in the operation of "qualified lodging facilities" on an after-tax basis through leases of such properties to our TRSs. A "qualified lodging facility" is a hotel, motel, or other establishment in which more than one-half of the dwelling units are used on a transient basis at which or in connection with which wagering activities are not conducted. Rent paid by a lessee that is a "related party tenant" of ours will not be qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs. A TRS that leases lodging facilities from us will not be treated as a "related party tenant" with respect to our lodging facilities that are managed by an independent management company, so long as the independent management company qualifies as an "eligible independent contractor." Each of the management companies that enters into a management contract with our TRSs must qualify as an "eligible independent contractor" under the REIT rules in order for the rent paid to us by our TRSs to be qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. An "eligible independent contractor" is an independent contractor that, at the time such contractor enters into a management or other agreement with a TRS to operate a "qualified lodging facility," is actively engaged in the trade or business of operating "qualified lodging facilities" for any person not related, as defined in the Code, to us or the TRS. Among other requirements, in order to qualify as an independent contractor a manager must not own, directly or applying attribution provisions of the Code, more than 35% of our outstanding shares of stock (by value), and no person or group of persons can own more than 35% of our outstanding shares and 35% of the ownership interests of the manager (taking into account only owners of more than 5% of our shares and, with respect to ownership interest in such managers that are publicly traded, only holders of more than 5% of such ownership interests). The ownership attribution rules that apply for purposes of the 35% thresholds are complex. There can be no assurance that the levels of ownership of our stock by our managers and their owners will not be exceeded. Our investments in certain debt instruments may cause us to recognize "phantom income" for U.S. federal income tax purposes even though no cash payments have been received on the debt instruments, and certain modifications of such debt by us could cause the modified debt to not qualify as a good REIT asset, thereby jeopardizing our REIT qualification. Our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as determined based on GAAP, or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur. For example, we may acquire assets, including debt securities requiring us to accrue original issue discount ("OID") or recognize market discount income, that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets referred to as "phantom income." In addition, if a borrower with respect to a particular debt instrument encounters financial difficulty rendering it unable to pay stated interest as due, we may nonetheless be required to continue to recognize the unpaid interest as taxable income with the effect that we will recognize income but will not have a corresponding amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders. As a result of the foregoing, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year and find it difficult or impossible to meet the REIT distribution requirements in certain circumstances. In such circumstances, we may be required to (a) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (b) borrow on unfavorable terms, (c) distribute amounts that would otherwise be used for future acquisitions or used to repay debt, or (d) make a taxable distribution of our shares of common stock as part of a distribution in which stockholders may elect to receive shares of common stock or (subject to a limit measured as a percentage of the total distribution) cash, in order to comply with the REIT distribution requirements. Moreover, we may acquire distressed debt investments that require subsequent modification by agreement with the borrower. If the amendments to the outstanding debt are "significant modifications" under the applicable Treasury Regulations, the modified debt may be considered to have been reissued to us in a debt-for-debt taxable exchange with the borrower. This deemed reissuance may prevent the modified debt from qualifying as a good REIT asset if the underlying security has declined in value and would cause us to recognize income to the extent the principal amount of the modified debt exceeds our adjusted tax basis in the unmodified debt. The failure of a mezzanine loan to qualify as a real estate asset would adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In general, in order for a loan to be treated as a qualifying real estate asset producing qualifying income for purposes of the REIT asset and income tests, the loan must be secured by real property. We may acquire mezzanine loans that are not directly secured by real property but instead secured by equity interests in a partnership or limited liability company that directly or indirectly owns real property. In Revenue Procedure 2003-65, the IRS provided a safe harbor pursuant to which a mezzanine loan that is not secured by real estate would, if it meets each of the requirements contained in the Revenue Procedure, be treated by the IRS as a qualifying real estate asset. Although the Revenue Procedure provides a safe harbor on which taxpayers may rely, it does not prescribe rules of substantive tax law and in many cases it may not be possible for us to meet all the requirements of the safe harbor. We cannot provide assurance that any mezzanine loan in which we invest would be treated as a qualifying asset producing qualifying income for REIT qualification purposes. If any such loan fails either the REIT income or asset tests, we may be disqualified as a REIT. 34We may choose to make distributions in our own stock, in which case you may be required to pay U.S. federal income taxes in excess of the cash dividends you receive. In connection with our qualification as a REIT, we are required to distribute annually to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (which does not equal net income as calculated in accordance with GAAP), determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. In order to satisfy this requirement, we may make distributions that are payable in cash and/or shares of our common stock (which could account for up to 80% of the aggregate amount of such distributions) at the election of each stockholder. Taxable stockholders receiving such distributions will be required to include the full amount of such distributions as ordinary dividend income to the extent of our current or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, U.S. stockholders may be required to pay U.S. federal income taxes with respect to such distributions in excess of the cash portion of the distribution received. Accordingly, U.S. stockholders receiving a distribution of our shares may be required to sell shares received in such distribution or may be required to sell other stock or assets owned by them, at a time that may be disadvantageous, in order to satisfy any tax imposed on such distribution. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock that it receives as part of the distribution in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the distribution, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to certain non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such distribution, including in respect of all or a portion of such distribution that is payable in stock, by withholding or disposing of part of the shares included in such distribution and using the proceeds of such disposition to satisfy the withholding tax imposed. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividend income, such sale may put downward pressure on the price of our common stock. Various tax aspects of such a taxable cash/stock distribution are uncertain and have not yet been addressed by the IRS. No assurance can be given that the IRS will not impose requirements in the future with respect to taxable cash/stock distributions, including on a retroactive basis, or assert that the requirements for such taxable cash/stock distributions have not been met.The taxation of distributions to our stockholders can be complex; however, distributions that we make to our stockholders generally will be taxable as ordinary income, which may reduce your anticipated return from an investment in us.Distributions that we make to our taxable stockholders out of current and accumulated earnings and profits (and not designated as capital gain dividends or qualified dividend income) generally will be taxable as ordinary income. However, a portion of our distributions may (1) be designated by us as capital gain dividends generally taxable as long-term capital gain to the extent that they are attributable to net capital gain recognized by us, (2) be designated by us as qualified dividend income generally to the extent they are attributable to dividends we receive from our TRSs, or (3) constitute a return of capital generally to the extent that they exceed our accumulated earnings and profits as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A return of capital is not taxable, but has the effect of reducing the basis of a stockholder's investment in our common stock. Our stockholders may have tax liability on distributions that they elect to reinvest in common stock, but they would not receive the cash from such distributions to pay such tax liability. If our stockholders participate in our distribution reinvestment program, they will be deemed to have received, and for U.S. federal income tax purposes will be taxed on, the amount reinvested in shares of our common stock to the extent the amount reinvested was not a tax-free return of capital. In addition, our stockholders will be treated for tax purposes as having received an additional distribution to the extent the shares are purchased at a discount to fair market value. As a result, unless a stockholder is a tax-exempt entity, it may have to use funds from other sources to pay its tax liability on the value of the shares of common stock received. Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. Currently, the maximum tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income payable to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for this reduced rate. Although this does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our common stock. Tax rates could be changed in future legislation.35If we were considered to actually or constructively pay a "preferential dividend" to certain of our stockholders, our status as a REIT could be adversely affected. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must annually distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (which does not equal net income, as calculated in accordance with GAAP), determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. In order for distributions to be counted as satisfying the annual distribution requirements for REITs, and to provide us with a REIT-level tax deduction, the distributions must not be "preferential dividends." A dividend is not a preferential dividend if the distribution is pro rata among all outstanding shares of stock within a particular class, and in accordance with the preferences among different classes of stock as set forth in our organizational documents. Currently, there is uncertainty as to the IRS's position regarding whether certain arrangements that REITs have with their stockholders could give rise to the inadvertent payment of a preferential dividend (e.g., the pricing methodology for stock purchased under a distribution reinvestment program inadvertently causing a greater than 5% discount on the price of such stock purchased). There is no de minimis exception with respect to preferential dividends; therefore, if the IRS were to take the position that we inadvertently paid a preferential dividend, we may be deemed to have failed the 90% distribution test, and our status as a REIT could be terminated for the year in which such determination is made if we were unable to cure such failure. While we believe that our operations have been structured in such a manner that we will not be treated as inadvertently paying preferential dividends, we can provide no assurance to this effect. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge our liabilities effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities. The REIT provisions of the Code may limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. Any income from a hedging transaction we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes, price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets, if properly identified under applicable Treasury Regulations, does not constitute "gross income" for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions will likely be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our TRSs would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in a TRS generally will not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward against future taxable income of such TRS. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to forgo and/or liquidate otherwise attractive investment opportunities. To qualify as a REIT, we must ensure that we meet the REIT gross income tests annually and that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets, including certain mortgage loans and certain kinds of mortgage-related securities. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% of the value of our total assets can be represented by securities of one or more TRS. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate assets from our portfolio or not make otherwise attractive investments in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. The ability of our board of directors to revoke our REIT qualification without stockholder approval may subject us to U.S. federal income tax and reduce distributions to our stockholders. Our charter provides that our board of directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. While we have elected to be taxed as a REIT, we may terminate our REIT election if we determine that qualifying as a REIT is no longer in the best interests of our stockholders. If we cease to be a REIT, we would become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income and would no longer be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our stockholders, which may have adverse consequences on our total return to our stockholders and on the market price of our common stock. 36We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could increase our tax liability, reduce our operating flexibility and reduce the price of our common stock. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made in the provisions of U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to investments similar to an investment in shares of our common stock. Additional changes to the tax laws are likely to continue to occur, and we cannot assure you that any such changes will not adversely affect the taxation of a stockholder. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in our shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our assets. You are urged to consult with your own tax advisor with respect to the impact of recent legislation on your investment in our shares and the status of legislative, regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in our shares. You also should note that our counsel's tax opinion is based upon existing law, applicable as of the date of its opinion, all of which will be subject to change, either prospectively or retroactively. Although REITs generally receive better tax treatment than entities taxed as regular corporations, it is possible that future legislation would result in a REIT having fewer tax advantages, and it could become more advantageous for a company that invests in real estate to elect to be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a corporation. As a result, our charter provides our board of directors with the power, under certain circumstances, to revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election and cause us to be taxed as a regular corporation, without the vote of our stockholders. Our board of directors has fiduciary duties to us and our stockholders and could only cause such changes in our tax treatment if it determines in good faith that such changes are in the best interest of our stockholders. Non-U.S. stockholders will be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax and may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on distributions received from us and upon the disposition of our shares. Subject to certain exceptions, distributions received from us will be treated as dividends of ordinary income to the extent of our current or accumulated earnings and profits. Such dividends ordinarily will be subject to U.S. withholding tax at a 30% rate, or such lower rate as may be specified by an applicable income tax treaty, unless the distributions are treated as "effectively connected" with the conduct by the non-U.S. stockholder of a U.S. trade or business. Pursuant to the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980 ("FIRPTA") capital gain distributions attributable to sales or exchanges of "U.S. real property interests" ("USRPIs") generally will be taxed to a non-U.S. stockholder as if such gain were effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business. However, a capital gain dividend will not be treated as effectively connected income if (a) the distribution is received with respect to a class of stock that is regularly traded on an established securities market located in the United States and (b) the non-U.S. stockholder does not own more than 5% of the class of our stock at any time during the one-year period ending on the date the distribution is received. We do not anticipate that our shares will be "regularly traded" on an established securities market for the foreseeable future, and therefore, this exception is not expected to apply. Gain recognized by a non-U.S. stockholder upon the sale or exchange of our common stock generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxation unless such stock constitutes a USRPI under FIRPTA. Our common stock will not constitute a USRPI so long as we are a "domestically-controlled qualified investment entity." A domestically-controlled qualified investment entity includes a REIT if at all times during a specified testing period, less than 50% in value of such REIT's stock is held directly or indirectly by non-U.S. stockholders. We believe, but cannot assure you, that we will be a domestically-controlled qualified investment entity. Even if we do not qualify as a domestically-controlled qualified investment entity at the time a non-U.S. stockholder sells or exchanges our common stock, gain arising from such a sale or exchange would not be subject to U.S. taxation under FIRPTA as a sale of a USRPI if (a) our common stock is "regularly traded," as defined by applicable Treasury regulations, on an established securities market, and (b) such non-U.S. stockholder owned, actually and constructively, 5% or less of our common stock at any time during the five-year period ending on the date of the sale. However, it is not anticipated that our common stock will be "regularly traded" on an established market. We encourage you to consult your tax advisor to determine the tax consequences applicable to you if you are a non-U.S. stockholder. Potential characterization of distributions or gain on sale may be treated as unrelated business taxable income to tax-exempt investors. If (a) we are a "pension-held REIT," (b) a tax-exempt stockholder has incurred (or is deemed to have incurred) debt to purchase or hold our common stock, or (c) a holder of common stock is a certain type of tax-exempt stockholder, dividends on, and gains recognized on the sale of, common stock by such tax-exempt stockholder may be subject to U.S. federal income tax as unrelated business taxable income under the Code. 37In order to avoid triggering additional taxes and/or penalties, if you intend to invest in our shares through pension or profit-sharing trusts or IRAs, you should consider additional factors. Our management has attempted to structure us in such a manner that we will be an attractive investment vehicle for pension, profit-sharing, 401(k), Keogh and other qualified retirement plans and IRAs. However, in considering an investment in our shares, those involved with making such an investment decision should consider applicable provisions of the Code and ERISA. While each of the ERISA and Code issues discussed below may not apply to all such plans and IRAs, individuals involved with making investment decisions with respect to such plans and IRAs should carefully review the items described below, and determine their applicability to their situation. Any such prospective investors are required to consult their own legal and tax advisors on these matters. In general, individuals making investment decisions with respect to such plans and IRAs should, at a minimum, consider: •whether the investment is in accordance with the documents and instruments governing such plan or IRA;•whether the investment satisfies the prudence and diversification and other fiduciary requirements of ERISA, if applicable;•whether the investment will result in UBTI to the plan or IRA;•whether there is sufficient liquidity for the plan or IRA, considering the minimum and other distribution requirements under the Code and the liquidity needs of such plan or IRA, after taking this investment into account;•the need to value the assets of the plan or IRA annually or more frequently; and•whether the investment would constitute or give rise to a prohibited transaction under ERISA or the Code, if applicable.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.Not applicable.