ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and stock price. The risks described in this Annual Report are not necessarily the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those that we currently deem to be immaterial may materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Risks Related to Our Company and Our Business We operate in a highly competitive industry with low barriers to entry, and may be unable to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. The staffing services market is highly competitive with limited barriers to entry. We compete in national, regional and local markets with full-service and specialized temporary staffing companies. Some of our competitors have significantly more marketing and financial resources than we do. Price competition in the staffing industry is intense, particularly for the provision of office clerical and light industrial personnel. We expect that the level of competition will remain high, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. A continuation or worsening of the global economic downturn could result in our customers using fewer workforce solutions and services or becoming unable to pay us for our services on a timely basis or at all, which would materially adversely affect our business. Because demand for workforce solutions and services, particularly staffing services, is sensitive to changes in the level of economic activity, our business may suffer during economic downturns. During periods of weak economic growth or economic contraction, the demand for our staffing services typically declines. When demand drops, our operating profit is typically impacted unfavorably as we experience a deleveraging of our selling and administrative expense base as expenses may not decline as quickly as revenues. In periods of decline, we can only reduce selling and administrative expenses to a certain level without negatively impacting the long-term potential of our branch network and brands. Additionally, during economic downturns companies may slow the rate at which they pay their vendors, or they may become unable to pay their obligations. If our customers become unable to pay amounts owed to us, or pay us more slowly, then our cash flow and profitability may suffer. Our business is subject to federal and state labor and employment laws and a failure to comply could materially harm our business. Our business is subject to federal and state labor and employment laws and regulations. The cost to comply, and any inability to comply, with such laws and regulations could materially harm our business. Increased government regulation of the workplace or of the employer-employee relationship, or judicial or administrative proceedings related to such regulation, could materially harm our business. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the “Health Care Reform Laws”) include various health-related provisions to take effect through 2014, including requiring most individuals to have health insurance and establishing new regulations on health plans. Although the Health Care Reform Laws do not mandate that employers offer health insurance, beginning in 2015 tax penalties will be assessed on employers who do not offer health insurance that meets certain affordability or benefit requirements. Unless modified by regulations or subsequent legislation, providing such additional health insurance benefits to our temporary workers, or the payment of tax penalties if such coverage is not provided, will increase our costs. If we are unable to raise the rates we charge our customers to cover these costs, such increases in costs could materially harm our business. We may be exposed to employment-related claims and losses, including class action lawsuits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Temporary staffing service providers typically assign personnel in the workplaces of other businesses. The risks of these activities include possible claims relating to: ·discrimination and harassment; 4 ·wrongful termination or denial of employment; ·violations of employment rights related to employment screening or privacy issues; ·classification of temporary workers; ·assignment of illegal aliens; ·violations of wage and hour requirements; ·retroactive entitlement to temporary worker benefits; ·errors and omissions by our temporary workers; ·misuse of customer proprietary information; ·misappropriation of funds; ·damage to customer facilities due to negligence of temporary workers; and ·criminal activity. We may incur fines and other losses or negative publicity with respect to these problems. In addition, these claims may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming and expensive. New employment and labor laws and regulations may be proposed or adopted that may increase the potential exposure of employers to employment-related claims and litigation. There can be no assurance that the corporate policies we have in place to help reduce our exposure to these risks will be effective or that we will not experience losses as a result of these risks. There can also be no assurance that the insurance policies we have purchased to insure against certain risks will be adequate or that insurance coverage will remain available on reasonable terms or be sufficient in amount or scope of coverage. We are dependent on workers’ compensation insurance coverage at commercially reasonable terms. We provide workers’ compensation insurance for our temporary workers. Our workers’ compensation insurance policies are renewed annually. We cannot be certain we will be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future or that adequate replacement policies will be available on acceptable terms. The loss of our workers’ compensation insurance coverage would prevent us from doing business in the majority of our markets. Further, we cannot be certain that our current and former insurance carriers will be able to pay claims we make under such policies. We depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified temporary personnel. We depend on our ability to attract qualified temporary personnel who possess the skills and experience necessary to meet the staffing requirements of our customers. We must continually evaluate our base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing customer needs. Competition for individuals with proven professional skills is intense, and demand for these individuals is expected to remain strong for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that qualified personnel will continue to be available. Our success is substantially dependent on our ability to recruit and retain qualified temporary personnel. We would be adversely affected by the loss of key personnel. Our operations and financial success depends significantly on our management team. The loss of any key members of management could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 5 Acquisitions and new business initiatives may not be successful. We expect to continue making acquisitions and entering into new business initiatives as part of our long-term business strategy. These acquisitions and new business initiatives involve significant challenges and risks, including that they may not advance our business strategy, that we may not realize a satisfactory return on our investment, that we may experience difficulty in integrating operations, or diversion of management’s attention from our other business. These events could cause harm to our operating results or financial condition. We have significant debt that could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations or put us at a competitive disadvantage. We have a relatively high amount of indebtedness. Our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our lenders could have a material impact on investors, including the requirement to use a portion of our cash flow from operations for debt service rather than for our operations and the need to comply with the various covenants associated with such debt. Additionally, we may not be able to obtain additional debt financing for future working capital, capital expenditures or other corporate purposes or may have to pay more for such financing. We could also be less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and to react to changes in market or industry conditions, or we may be disadvantaged compared to competitors with less leverage. We have a history of net losses and cannot make assurances that we will be profitable in the foreseeable future. We have a history of net losses. If we fail to generate cash flow from our operations, we may not be able to sustain our business. In the future, we may not report profitable operations or generate sufficient revenue to maintain ourselves as a going concern. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Securities An investment in our common stock should be considered illiquid and high risk. An investment in our common stock requires a long-term commitment, with no certainty of return. Because we did not become a public reporting company by the traditional means of conducting an underwritten initial public offering of our common stock, we may be unable to establish a liquid market for our common stock. Moreover, we do not expect security analysts of brokerage firms to provide coverage of our company in the near future. In addition, investment banks may be less likely to agree to underwrite primary or secondary offerings on behalf of our company or its stockholders in the future than they would if we had become a public reporting company by means of an underwritten initial public offering of common stock. If all or any of the foregoing risks occur, it would have a material adverse effect on our company. No trading market for our common stock currently exists, and an active trading market may not develop or be sustained. As we are in our early stages, an investment in our common stock will likely require a long-term commitment, with no certainty of return. There is no active trading market for our common stock, and we cannot predict whether an active market for our common stock will ever develop in the future. In the absence of an active trading market: ·investors may have difficulty buying and selling or obtaining market quotations; ·market visibility for shares of our common stock may be limited; and ·a lack of visibility for shares of our common stock may have a depressive effect on the market price for shares of our common stock. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board (known as the OTCBB) under the symbol “BGSF”. As of March 31, 2014, no sales of our common stock have been reported by the OTCBB, and we are currently seeking DTC eligibility to permit our common stock to be deposited with DTC and thereby facilitate trading in our common stock on the OTCBB. The OTCBB is a relatively unorganized, inter-dealer, over-the-counter market that provides significantly less liquidity than NASDAQ or the NYSE MKT. No assurances can be given that our common stock will ever trade on such market, much less a senior market like NASDAQ or NYSE MKT. In this event, there would be a highly illiquid market for our common stock and you may be unable to dispose of your common stock at desirable prices or at all. Moreover, there is a risk that our common stock could be delisted from the OTCBB, in which case it might be listed on the so called “Pink Sheets,” which is even more illiquid than the OTCBB. 6 The lack of an active market impairs your ability to sell your shares at the time you wish to sell them or at a price that you consider reasonable. The lack of an active market may also reduce the fair market value of your shares. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital to continue to fund operations by selling shares and may impair our ability to acquire additional assets by using our shares as consideration. Even if our common stock becomes publicly-traded and an active trading market develops, the market price of our common stock may be significantly volatile. Even if our securities become publicly-traded and even if an active market for our common stock develops, of which no assurances can be given, the market price for our common stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: ·actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; ·changes in financial or operational estimates or projections; ·conditions in markets generally; ·changes in the economic performance or market valuations of companies similar to ours; and ·general economic or political conditions in the United States or elsewhere. The securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of shares of our common stock. FINRA sales practice requirements may also limit your ability to buy and sell our common stock, which could depress the price of our shares. FINRA rules require broker-dealers to have reasonable grounds for believing that an investment is suitable for a customer before recommending that investment to the customer. Prior to recommending speculative low-priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status and investment objectives, among other things. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability such speculative low-priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. Thus, FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our shares, have an adverse effect on the market for our shares, and thereby depress our share price. 7 You may face significant restrictions on the resale of your shares due to state securities or “blue sky” laws. Each state has its own securities laws, often called “blue sky” laws, which (1) limit sales of securities to a state’s residents unless the securities are registered in that state or qualify for an exemption from registration, and (2) govern the reporting requirements for broker-dealers doing business directly or indirectly in the state. Before a security is sold in a state, there must be a registration in place to cover the transaction, or it must be exempt from registration. The applicable broker-dealer must also be registered in that state. We do not know whether our securities will be registered or exempt from registration under the laws of any state. A determination regarding registration will be made by those broker-dealers, if any, who agree to serve as market makers for our common stock. We have not yet applied to have our securities registered in any state and will not do so until we receive expressions of interest from investors resident in specific states after they have viewed this Annual Report. There may be significant state blue sky law restrictions on the ability of investors to sell, and on purchasers to buy, our securities. You should therefore consider the resale market for our common stock to be limited, as you may be unable to resell your shares without the significant expense of state registration or qualification. Our compliance with complicated regulations concerning corporate governance and public disclosure will result in additional expenses. Moreover, our ability to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations is uncertain given our management’s relative inexperience with operating public companies. We are faced with expensive, complicated and evolving disclosure, governance and compliance laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which we refer to as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. New or changing laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards of a public company are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Moreover, our executive officers have little experience in operating a public company, which makes our ability to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations uncertain. Our failure to comply with all laws, rules and regulations applicable to U.S. public companies could subject us or our management to regulatory scrutiny or sanction, which could harm our reputation and stock price. As an “emerging growth company” under applicable law, we will be subject to lessened disclosure requirements, which could leave our stockholders without information or rights available to stockholders of more mature companies. For as long as we remain an “emerging growth company” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (which we refer to herein as the JOBS Act), we have elected to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including, but not limited to: ·not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; ·taking advantage of an extension of time to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards; ·reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements; and ·exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We expect to take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” Because of these lessened regulatory requirements, our stockholders will not have all the information and rights available to stockholders of more mature companies. 8 Because we have elected to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards for an “emerging growth company” our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates. We have elected to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards under Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act. This election allows us to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until those standards apply to private companies. As a result of this election, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates. Because our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates, investors may have difficulty evaluating or comparing our business, performance or prospects in comparison to other public companies, which may have a negative impact on the value and liquidity of our common stock. There may be limitations on the effectiveness of our internal controls, and a failure of our control systems to prevent error or fraud may materially harm our company. Proper systems of internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure are critical to the operation of a public company. We are at the very early stages of establishing, and we may be unable to effectively establish such systems, especially in light of the fact that we must operate as a publicly reporting company. This would leave us without the ability to reliably compile financial information about our company and significantly impair our ability to prevent or detect errors and fraud, all of which would have a negative impact on our company from many perspectives. Moreover, we do not expect that disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, even if established, will prevent all errors and fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. Failure of our control systems to prevent and detect errors or fraud could materially adversely impact us. We may be unable to complete our analysis of our internal controls over financial reporting in a timely manner, or these internal controls may not be determined to be effective, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. We may be required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by our management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the first fiscal year beginning after the effective date of the initial registration statement filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we refer to as the SEC. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. We are in the very early stages of the costly and challenging process of compiling a system and processing documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. We may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would cause the price of our common stock to decline, and we may be subject to investigation or sanctions by the SEC. We will also be required to disclose changes made in our internal control and procedures on a quarterly basis. However, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until the later of the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC, or the date we are no longer an “emerging growth company” as defined in the recently enacted JOBS Act, if we take advantage (as we expect to do) of the exemptions contained in the JOBS Act. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating. Our remediation efforts may not enable us to avoid a material weakness in the future. We will remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years, although if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30 before that time, we would cease to be an “emerging growth company” as of the following December 30. Any of the foregoing occurrences, should they come to pass, could negatively impact the public perception of our company, which could have a negative impact on our stock price. 9 We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Consequently, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investments. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares. Upon dissolution of our company, you may not recoup all or any portion of your investment. In the event of a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of our company, whether voluntary or involuntary, the proceeds and/or assets of our company remaining after giving effect to such transaction, and the payment of all of our debts and liabilities will be distributed to the stockholders of common stock on a pro rata basis. There can be no assurance that we will have available assets to pay to the holders of common stock, or any amounts, upon such a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of our company. In this event, you could lose some or all of your investment. Certain provisions of our organizational documents may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors and may discourage hostile takeover attempts that some of our stockholders may consider to be beneficial. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of us and our stockholders. The provisions in such certificate of incorporation and bylaws include, among other things, the following: ·a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms; ·the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without stockholder approval; ·stockholder action can only be taken at a special or regular meeting and not by written consent except in limited circumstances; ·advance notice procedures for nominating candidates to our board of directors or presenting matters at stockholder meetings; ·removal of directors only for cause; ·allowing only our board of directors to fill vacancies on our board of directors or increase the size of our board of directors; and ·super-majority voting requirements to amend certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation. We have elected in our certificate of incorporation not to be subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”), a statutory provision that may have the effect of delaying, hindering or preventing some takeovers of our company. In general, Section 203 prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination, such as a merger, with a person or group owning 15% or more of the corporation’s voting stock for a period of three years following the date the person became an “interested stockholder,” unless (with certain exceptions) the business combination or the transaction in which the person became an “interested stockholder” is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, we will not be subject to any anti-takeover effects of Section 203. Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that have the same effect as Section 203, except that they generally provide that Taglich Private Equity LLC, Taglich Brothers, Inc. or any of their respective affiliates or associates, including any investment funds or portfolio companies managed by any of the foregoing, or any other person with whom any of the foregoing act as a group for the purpose of acquiring, voting or disposing of our shares, or any person that becomes an interested stockholder as a result of a transfer of 5% or more of our voting stock by the forgoing persons to such person, will be excluded from the “interested stockholder” definition in our certificate of incorporation and will therefore not be subject to the restrictions set forth therein that have the same effect as Section 203. 10 While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of the stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 