D. Risk Factors You should consider carefully all of the information in this annual report, including the risks described below. If any risk disclosed below or elsewhere in this annual report actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In such an event, the trading price of our ADS could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. Some information in this Item 3.D may be a summary of more detailed discussions contained elsewhere in this annual report. The risks described below are not the only ones concerning us. Our business is also subject to the risks not specifically addressed below that affect many other companies, such as employment relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events, etc. Further, additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impact our business, operations, financial condition and ADS price materially and adversely. Risks Related to Our Business We are dependent and expect to continue to be dependent on the revenue contribution from our flagship product, Baquting. A reduction in Baquting sales would cause our revenues to decline and materially harm our business. We are largely dependent on sales of our hemocoagulase product, which we market under the name of Baquting. We launched Baquting in November 2001. In 2008, 2009 and 2010, we sold 9.7 million, 13.1 million and 14.8 million units of Baquting, respectively. Revenues from Baquting sales accounted for 90.1%, 93.5% and 94.2% of our total revenues in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. We plan to dedicate additional resources toward maintaining and expanding Baquting’s market share, such as for improved quality control, production technology and formulation and dosage upgrades and modifications. Sales of Baquting will continue to comprise a substantial portion of our revenues in the future. Any reduction in revenues from Baquting will have a direct negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Baquting sales could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including: • increased competition; • new product introductions to the market; • government-imposed pricing constraints; • problems with raw material supplies; • disruptions in manufacturing or distribution; • newly discovered safety issues arising from misuse of or adverse reactions from our products; and • intellectual property issues. Because of our relative lack of product diversification, an investment in our company may entail more risk than investments in companies that offer a wider variety of products or services. Despite our efforts, we may be unable to develop or acquire new products that would enable us to diversify our business and reduce our dependence on Baquting. The commercial success of our products depends upon the degree of their market acceptance by the medical community. If our products do not attain market acceptance by the medical community, our operations and profitability would be adversely affected. The commercial success of our products depends upon the degree of market acceptance they receive from the medical community, particularly physicians and hospital administrators. Physicians may not prescribe or recommend our products to patients and hospital procurement departments may not purchase our products if physicians or hospital pharmacists do not find our products attractive. The acceptance and use of our products by the medical community depend upon a number of factors, including: • perceptions of physicians, patients and other members of the medical community regarding the safety and effectiveness of our products; 5 Table of Contents • the prevalence and severity of any side effects; • the efficacy, pharmacological benefit and potential advantages of our products relative to competing products and products under development; • the relative convenience and ease of administration of our products; • effectiveness of our and our distributors’ education, marketing and distribution efforts; • publicity concerning our products or competing products; and • the price for our products and competing products. In addition, the continued success of Baquting depends in part upon perceptions of blood transfusion risk and blood supply quality in China. If our products fail to gain market acceptance by the medical community, or if our currently marketed products cannot maintain market acceptance, our results of operations and profitability would be adversely affected. We may not be able to obtain manufacturing or marketing approvals for our products, including Aiduo and Aiwen, or pass on-site inspections of our production facilities. Failure to obtain approvals for our products or pass on-site inspections of our production facilities could materially harm our operations and business prospects. All medicines must be approved by the PRC State Food and Drug Administration, or the SFDA, before they can be manufactured, marketed or sold in the PRC. The SFDA requires a pharmaceutical manufacturer to successfully complete clinical trials of a new medicine and demonstrate its manufacturing capability before granting manufacturing approval for the new medicine. Clinical trials are expensive and their results are uncertain. In addition, the SFDA and other regulatory authorities may apply new standards for safety, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and distribution of future products. Complying with these standards may be time-consuming and expensive. Furthermore, our future products may not be efficacious or may have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that may preclude us from obtaining approval or may prevent or limit their commercial use. As a result, we may not be able to obtain SFDA or other governmental approvals for our future products on a timely basis or at all. For example, in June 2010, we entered into an exclusive distribution agreement with a Swiss company, HCB Lubricants GmbH, to register, market and distribute Dianatal® Obstetric Gel exclusively in Mainland China, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macao. We have started marketing Dianatal® Obstetric Gel in Hong Kong. In March 2011, we submitted our application for the SFDA approval, which is necessary to sell this product in Mainland China. If the SFDA approval for Dianatal® Obstetric Gel is delayed or not granted at all, we will not be able to launch this product in the Chinese market. Even if we obtain these approvals, such approvals may be modified or revoked or subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market the product, which may limit the size of its market. We will not be able to manufacture and market our new products or at all if we do not obtain required governmental approvals. Furthermore, even after we obtain such approvals, we may not be able to pass the on-site inspections of our facilities required prior to the launch of our products. For example, in 2004, we entered into agreements for the acquisition of Aiduo, our cardiovascular stress imaging agent, and Aiwen, our anti-arrhythmic agent, from Shenyang Guangda Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., or Shenyang Guangda, and Shenyang Wanjia Biotechnology Research Institute, or Shenyang Wanjia. We require approval from the SFDA for the transfer of the production permit for Aiduo and Aiwen from Shenyang Guangda to us and Good Manufacturing Practice, or GMP, certification for our Shenyang facility in order to complete the acquisition of Aiduo and Aiwen from Shenyang Guangda and to commence production of these products at our production facility. If we fail to pass the on-site inspection in connection with our production permit application, we will not be able to obtain the production permit and commence production. If we fail to pass the on-site inspection in connection with GMP certification, we will not be able to obtain a GMP certificate, which is required for pharmaceutical production and sale. GMP certificates are subject to review and renewal every five years. See “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview — Certificates and Permit” for a description of our current licenses and permits. Failure to obtain or renew approvals for our existing or future products or pass on-site inspections of our facilities could materially harm our business and operations. 6 Table of Contents Selling prices of our products may decline over time. Our success depends on our ability to successfully develop and commercialize biopharmaceutical products. Our product development efforts may not result in commercially viable products. As is typical in the Chinese pharmaceutical industry, the average selling prices of biopharmaceutical products may decline significantly over the life of the product. These declines principally result from increased competition and price controls. Historically, the average selling prices of our products have not declined significantly. However, there may be a material decline of selling prices in the future. We have sought to mitigate downward pricing pressure by introducing new products or enhanced versions of existing products with higher margins. We must therefore constantly identify product candidates that can be developed into cost-effective therapeutic products. We have devoted substantial resources to our research and development efforts; however, successful product development in our industry is highly uncertain, and relatively few research and development projects produce commercially viable products. If we cannot offset declines in revenues from and margins of our existing products with new products, our overall results of operations will suffer. Our products face substantial competition. Our competitors may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize products earlier or more successfully than we do. We operate in a highly competitive environment and our products compete with other products or treatments. Baquting competes with existing hemocoagulase products and potential new drug candidates. In China, our major competitors in the hemocoagulase market include Aohong Pharma’s Bangting, Solco Basel’s Reptilase and Lee’s Pharm’s Sulejuan, which in 2010 held approximately 29.0%, 21.7% and 13.0% market share, by volume, respectively. Our products may compete against products with lower prices, superior performance, greater ease of administration or other advantages compared to our products. We do not have patents of any commercial significance for many of our products and product candidates to protect these products and product candidates from direct competition. Our inability to compete effectively could reduce sales or margins, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Certain of our competitors market products or are actively engaged in research and development in areas where we have products or where we are developing product candidates or new indications, or usage purposes, for existing products. Our products compete with new drugs in development, drugs that may be approved for the same indications as our products and drugs approved for other indications that are used off-label. Additionally, an increasing number of foreign pharmaceutical companies have introduced their pharmaceutical products into the Chinese market. If less expensive alternatives to our products are dispensed or prescribed to patients, our sales may be adversely impacted. Large Chinese state-owned and privately owned pharmaceutical companies and foreign-invested or foreign pharmaceutical companies may have greater clinical, research, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing, financial and human resources than we do. In addition, certain of our competitors may have technical or competitive advantages over us with respect to the development of technologies and processes. These resources may make it difficult for us to compete with them to successfully discover, develop and market new products and for our current products to compete with new products or indications that these competitors may bring to market. Our competitors in the pharmaceutical industry may also consolidate and acquire market share. Furthermore, in order to gain market share in China, competitors may significantly increase their advertising expenditures and promotional activities or engage in irrational or predatory pricing behavior. In addition, our competitors may engage in inappropriate competitive practices or illegal acts, such as bribery. Third parties may actively engage in activities designed to undermine our brand name and product quality or to influence customer confidence in our products. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our profit margins. We may not be able to compete effectively against current and future competitors, which may harm our business and operations. 7 Table of Contents Our business depends on our well-known brands such as Nuokang and Baquting, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand recognition to maintain our competitive advantage, our reputation, business and operating results may be harmed. We believe that market awareness of our Nuokang and Baquting brands has contributed significantly to our success, and that maintaining and enhancing these brands is critical to maintaining our competitive advantage. We may not be successful in promoting our brands. If we are unable to enhance our brand recognition and increase awareness of our products, or if we incur excessive expenses to maintain our brand awareness, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected if our brands or reputation are impaired by actions taken by our distributors, competitors, third-party marketing firms or relevant regulatory authorities. Pricing of our principal products is subject to government approval. Changes in government control on prices of our products may limit our profitability or cause us to stop manufacturing certain products. The prices of pharmaceutical products listed in the PRC national medical insurance catalog and certain other medicines are subject to the regulation of the PRC National Development and Reform Commission, or the NDRC, and relevant authorized provincial or local price control authorities, in the form of fixed prices or price ceilings. From time to time, the NDRC publishes a list of medicines subject to price controls. Our principal products, Baquting and Kaitong, are subject to price ceilings set by the NDRC. The limitation on our ability to raise the wholesale prices of our products may prevent us from absorbing or offsetting any increase in the costs of producing our products, which would lower our margins. Additionally, we are required to file the prices of Aiduo, Aiwen and our other products with provincial price control authorities. In aggregate, 8 out of 15 of our products, sales of which accounted for 94.2%, 96.5% and 95.2% of our total sales in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively, are subject to price controls imposed by the NDRC and provincial price control authorities. Furthermore, the prices of our products may be adjusted downward by the relevant governmental authorities in the future. On March 28, 2011, the NDRC lowered the price ceilings of 162 medicines in China. As a result, the maximum retail price at which lipid emlusion alprostadil products such as Kaitong may be sold to patients was reduced from RMB145.0 per unit to RMB123.0 per unit, representing a decrease of 15.2%. If we are required to lower wholesale prices of our principal products in the future as a result of any government-mandated reduction in the price ceilings, our future results of operation and profitability would be adversely affected. In addition, in order to access certain local or provincial-level markets, we are required to enter into competitive bidding processes with a pre-defined price range for Baquting, Kaitong, Aiduo, Aiwen and our other products every one or two years. The competitive bidding effectively sets price ceilings for our products, thereby limiting our profitability. We may stop manufacturing of certain products of its price range designated by the local or provincial government falls below production costs. Reimbursement may not be available for our products, which could diminish our sales or affect our ability to sell our products profitably. Market acceptance and sales of our products depend to a large extent on the reimbursement policies of the PRC government. The PRC Ministry of Labor and Social Security or provincial or local labor and social security authorities, together with other government authorities, review the inclusion or removal of drugs from the national medical insurance catalog or provincial or local medical insurance catalogs for the National Medical Insurance Program every two years, and the tier under which a drug will be classified, both of which affect the amounts reimbursable to program participants for their purchases of those medicines. These determinations are made based on a number of factors, including price and efficacy of the drug. Depending on the tier under which a drug is classified in the provincial medicine catalog, a National Medical Insurance Program participant residing in that province can be reimbursed for the full cost of Tier 1 medicine and for 80% to 90% of the cost of Tier 2 medicine. Our principal products, Baquting and Kaitong, are currently included in the national medical insurance catalog as Tier 2 medicines. Aiduo and Aiwen are Tier 2 medicines in the medical insurance catalogs of Zhejiang, Hubei, Gansu, Hunan, Shaanxi, Jilin, Fujian and Ningxia. If our products are removed from medical insurance catalogs by relevant government authorities, sales of these products and our revenues in turn may be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, if our new products are not included in national, provincial or local medical insurance catalogs, sales of these products may be materially adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents The growth and success of our business depends on our ability to successfully market our principal products to hospitals and their selection in tender processes used by hospitals for medicine purchases. Our future growth and success significantly depend on our ability to successfully market Baquting and Kaitong to hospitals as prescription medicines. In 2008, 2009 and 2010, substantially all of the end-customers of Baquting were hospitals. Hospitals may make bulk purchases of a medicine included in the national and provincial medicine catalogs only if that medicine is selected under a government-administered tender process. Every one or two years, bidding is organized on a provincial or municipal basis. A medicine manufacturer is invited to participate in the tender based on the level of interest that hospitals have in purchasing the medicine. A hospital’s interest in a medicine is evidenced by: • the inclusion of the medicine on the hospital’s formulary, which lists medicines its physicians may prescribe; and • the willingness of physicians at this hospital to prescribe this medicine to their patients. We believe that effective marketing efforts are critical to maintaining hospital interest in Baquting and to developing the same in Kaitong. If our marketing efforts are ineffective, hospital administrators may not want to include Baquting or Kaitong in their formularies and physicians may not be interested in prescribing Baquting or Kaitong to their patients, which decreases our chances of being invited to and succeeding at tenders. As a result, we may find it difficult to maintain the existing level of sales of our products, and our revenues and profitability may decline. Rapid changes in the pharmaceutical industry may render our products obsolete. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapid changes in technology, constant enhancement of industrial know-how and frequent emergence of new products. Future technological improvements and continual product developments in the pharmaceutical market may render our existing products obsolete or affect our viability and competitiveness. Therefore, our future success will largely depend on our ability to: • improve our existing products; • diversify our product portfolio; and • develop new and competitively priced products which meet the requirements of the constantly changing market. If we fail to respond to this environment by improving our existing products or developing new products in a timely fashion, or if our new or improved products do not achieve adequate market acceptance, our business and profitability may be materially and adversely affected. The recent global economic and financial market crisis has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The recent global economic and financial market crisis has caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending, and lower consumer net worth, in the United States and other parts of the world. This global economic and financial market crisis may impair our ability to raise funds through capital market transactions or enter into other financial arrangements if and when additional funds become necessary for our operations. Any recurrence of the economic and financial market crisis may cause, among other things, lower customer spending across China. People may have diminished financial resources to purchase even critical medical care, which could lead to reduced demand for our products and reduced revenues. In addition, some of our distributors and their customers, primarily hospitals and other healthcare institutions, may be adversely affected by the economic crisis, resulting in delays in payment to us or defaults of payments by our distributor customers. The global economic and financial market crisis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. We commenced operations in 1997 and have gradually built up our research, development, manufacturing, sales and marketing capabilities. We have a limited operating history under our current business model upon which you can evaluate the viability and sustainability of our business. Accordingly, you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties experienced by other China-based early stage pharmaceutical companies. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks and uncertainties, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth would be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents We may not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we announce and expect. We set goals for, and made disclosures in this annual report regarding, timing of the accomplishment of objectives material to our success, such as the commencement and completion of pre-clinical tests, clinical trials, anticipated regulatory submission and approval dates and timing of product launches. As a public U.S.-listed company, we anticipate that we will make additional announcements in our public reports and in press releases regarding these events. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to factors beyond our control, such as delays or failures in our pre-clinical tests or clinical trials, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process and delays in achieving manufacturing or marketing arrangements sufficient to commercialize our products. There can be no assurance that our pre-clinical tests or clinical trials will be completed as planned or at all, that we will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned or that we will be able to adhere to our current schedule for the launch of any of our products. If we fail to achieve one or more of these milestones as planned, the price of our shares could decline. New product development in the pharmaceutical industry is time-consuming and costly and has a low rate of successful commercialization. Our success will depend in part on our ability to enhance our existing products and to develop new products. The development process for pharmaceutical products is complex and uncertain, as well as time-consuming and costly. Relatively few research and development programs produce a commercial product. A product candidate that appears promising in the early phases of development may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: • the failure to demonstrate safety and efficacy in preclinical and clinical trials; • the failure to obtain approvals for intended use from relevant regulatory bodies, such as the SFDA; • our inability to manufacture and commercialize sufficient quantities of the product economically; and • proprietary rights, such as patent rights, held by others to our product candidates and their refusal to sell or license such rights to us on reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, product development requires the accurate assessment of market trends. We cannot assure you that: • our new product research and development efforts will be successfully and timely completed; • our clinical trials on humans for our product candidate will be successful; • SFDA or other regulatory bodies will grant necessary regulatory clearances or approvals on a timely basis, or at all; or • any product we develop will be commercialized or achieve market acceptance. Delays in any part of the development process or our inability to obtain regulatory approval of our products could adversely affect our operating results by restricting or delaying our introduction of new products. Even if we successfully commercialize new products, these products may address markets that are currently being served by our mature products and may result in a reduction in the sales volume of our mature product or vice versa. Failure to develop, obtain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for or successfully commercialize or market potential new products or technologies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents We will not be able to commercialize our product candidates if our preclinical studies do not produce successful results or our clinical trials do not demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the manufacturing and sale of our product candidates, we must conduct, at our own expense, extensive preclinical tests and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our product candidates. Preclinical and clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, preclinical testing and the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval or commercialize our product candidates, including the following: • our preclinical tests or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical testing or clinical trials, or we may abandon projects that appear promising; • we might have to suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; • regulators may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or safety concerns; • the time or cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we currently anticipate; • any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the product not commercially viable; and • our product candidates may produce undesirable side effects or may have other unexpected characteristics. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our product candidates beyond those that we currently contemplate, if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other testing or if the results of these trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive, we may: • be delayed in obtaining approval for our product candidates; • not be able to obtain approval; or • obtain approval for indications that are not as broad as intended. Our product development costs will also increase if we experience delays in testing or approvals. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Significant clinical trial delays also could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our products or product candidates. If we are unable to protect our products through intellectual property rights, our competitors may compete directly against us. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our products from competition by establishing, maintaining and enforcing intellectual property rights. We seek to protect the products and technology that we consider important to our business by filing PRC and international patent applications, relying on trade secrets or pharmaceutical regulatory protection or employing a combination of these methods. We have patents and patent applications relating to Baquting upgrades, adenosine for myocardial protection, Kaitong, Agkistrodon acutus hemocoagulase and lanthanum polystyrene. For more details, see “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview —Intellectual Property.” However, the filing of a patent application does not mean that we will be issued a patent, or that any patent eventually issued will be as broad as requested in the patent application or sufficient to protect our technology. There are a number of factors that could cause our patents, if granted, to become invalid or unenforceable or that could cause our patent applications to not be granted, including known or unknown prior art, deficiencies in the patent application or the lack of originality of the technology. In addition, the PRC adopts the first-to-file system under which whoever first files a patent application will be awarded the patent. By contrast, U.S. patent law endorses the first-to-invent system under which whoever makes the first actual discovery will be awarded the patent. Under the first-to-file system, a third party may be granted a patent relating to a technology which we invented. For more details on the process for applying for and obtaining intellectual property protection in the PRC, see “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview —Regulations—Regulation of patent and trademark protection.” Furthermore, the terms of our patents are limited. The patents we hold and patents to be issued from our currently pending patent applications have a twenty-year protection period starting from the date of application. 11 Table of Contents We may become involved in patent litigation against third parties to enforce our patent rights, to invalidate patents held by such third parties, or to defend against such claims. The cost to us of any patent litigation or similar proceeding could be substantial, and it may consume significant management time. We do not maintain insurance to cover intellectual property infringement. Intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries, because, among other reasons, of the lack of procedural rules for discovery and evidence, low damage awards and lack of judicial independence. Implementation and enforcement of PRC intellectual property laws have historically been deficient and ineffective and may be hampered by corruption and local protectionism. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive, and we may need to resort to litigation to enforce or defend patents issued to us or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others. The experience and capabilities of PRC courts in handling intellectual property litigation varies, and outcomes are unpredictable. Further, such litigation may require a significant expenditure of cash and may divert management’s attention, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. An adverse determination in any such litigation could materially impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. If our products infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, we may incur substantial liabilities, and we may be unable to sell these products. Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. Under the PRC Patent Law, patent applications are maintained in confidence until their publication 18 months from the filing date. The publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made and patent applications are filed. Even after reasonable investigation, we may not know with certainty whether any third party may have filed a patent application without our knowledge while we are still developing or producing that product. While the success of pending patent applications and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if asserted against us, we could incur substantial costs and we may have to: • obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; • redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; and • stop producing our products using the patents held by others, which could cause us to lose the use of one or more of our products. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties, and any of the following may arise from such claims: • we may have to defend litigation or administrative proceedings that may be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of management resources; • we may become liable for substantial damages for past infringement if a court decides that our technology infringes a third party’s intellectual property rights; • a court may prohibit us from producing and selling our product without a license from the holder of the intellectual property rights, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all; and • we may have to reformulate our product so that it does not infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may not be possible or could be very expensive and time consuming. Any costs incurred in connection with such events or the inability to sell our products may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We rely on confidentiality agreements that could be breached and may be difficult to enforce, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and competitive position. Our policy is to enter agreements relating to the non-disclosure of confidential information with third parties, including our contractors, consultants, advisors and research collaborators, as well as agreements that purport to require the disclosure and assignment to us of the rights to the ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions of our employees and consultants while we employ them. However, these agreements can be difficult and costly to enforce. Moreover, to the extent that our contractors, consultants, advisors and research collaborators apply or independently develop intellectual property in connection with any of our projects, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to this type of information. If a dispute arises, a court may determine that the right belongs to a third party, and enforcement of our rights can be costly and unpredictable. In addition, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we will seek to protect in part by confidentiality agreements with our employees, contractors, consultants, advisors or others. Despite the protective measures we employ, we still face the risk that: • these agreements may be breached; • these agreements may not provide adequate remedies for the applicable type of breach; or • our trade secrets or proprietary know-how will otherwise become known. Any breach of our confidentiality agreements or our failure to effectively enforce such agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business and competitive position. We source our primary raw material, Bothrops atrox venom, from a single third-party supplier. We source our primary raw material, Bothrops atrox venom, for the production of Baquting, from Centro De Extracão De Toxinas Animais, an unaffiliated third-party supplier in Brazil. Export of Bothrops atrox venom is subject to the laws and administrative rules and regulations related to export-control in Brazil and its import to China is also required to comply with laws, regulations and restrictions imposed by the relevant national and local authorities in China. We must receive governmental approval from PRC authorities for each shipment of Bothrops atrox venom. We may not be able to obtain such approval in time to meet our production requirements or at all. The Brazilian government may impose more stringent control over exports, and the PRC government may impose stricter restrictions on imports, which, in either case, may impair our ability to import, or prevent us from importing, Bothrops atrox venom from Brazil to China. If there is any supply interruption for an indeterminate period of time, we may not be able to identify and obtain alternative supplies that comply with our quality standards in a timely manner. Any supply disruption could adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products, and materially and adversely affect our product sales and operating results. The manufacture of our products is an exacting and complex process, and if we or our contract manufacturers encounter problems in manufacturing our products, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. The SFDA and foreign regulators require manufacturers to register manufacturing facilities. The SFDA and foreign regulators also inspect these facilities to confirm compliance with GMP or similar requirements that the SFDA or foreign regulators establish. We or our contract manufacturers may face manufacturing or quality control problems causing product production and shipment delays or a situation where we or contract manufacturers may not be able to maintain compliance with the SFDA’s GMP requirements, or those of foreign regulators, necessary to continue manufacturing our drug candidates. A new inspection rule for GMP certification recently became effective on January 1, 2008 that implemented more stringent GMP standards. Any failure to comply with GMP requirements or other SFDA or foreign regulatory requirements could adversely affect our ability to manufacture, market and sell our products. We rely on a limited number of distributors for sales of our products. We rely on a limited number of distributors for most of our net revenue. Our top five distributors in the aggregate accounted for 33.4%, 42.1% and 51.0% of our net revenue in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. We expect that a relatively small number of our distributors will continue to account for a major portion of our net revenue in the near future. Our dependence on a few distributors could expose us to the risk of substantial losses if a single large distributor stops purchasing our products, purchases fewer of our products or goes out of business and we cannot find substitute distributors on equivalent terms. If any of our significant distributors reduces the quantity of the products they purchase from us or stops purchasing from us, our net revenue would be materially and adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents We do not have long-term distribution agreements with our distributors and we compete for desired distributors with other pharmaceutical manufacturers. Consequently, maintaining relationships with existing distributors and replacing distributors may be difficult and time consuming. Any disruption of our distribution network, including failure to renew existing distribution agreements with desired distributors, could negatively affect our ability to effectively sell our products and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We enter into distribution agreements with our distributors which generally provide distribution rights for our products in a designated geographic area for a period of one year. We generally have one to three distributors in each provincial-level region. If any distributor sells our products outside its designated geographic area, harmful competition among our distributors could result, which may adversely impact our product sales activities and operating results. If we are unable to attract, train, retain and motivate our direct sales force, third-party marketing agents and contract sales partners, sales of our products may be materially and adversely affected. We rely on our direct sales force, third-party marketing agents and contract sales partners who are dispersed across China, to market our products to hospitals and other healthcare institutions. We believe that Baquting’s current leading position in the market was the result, to a significant extent, of the dedication, efforts and performance of our direct sales force, third-party marketing agents and contract sales partners. We believe that our future success will continue to depend on these same factors. There are only limited numbers of competent and qualified marketing agents in the Chinese pharmaceutical industry. We do not provide compensation to, or contract directly with, our marketing agents. Our marketing agents are instead compensated for their marketing and promotional activities by distributors. We therefore are unable to directly incentivize the marketing agents for their abilities. Our competitors may provide commissions or other economic incentives to third-party marketing agents significantly above the market standard, which may cause such agents to cease marketing our products. If we are unable to attract, train, retain and motivate our direct sales force and marketing agents, sales of our products may be materially and adversely affected. Anti-corruption measures taken by the government to correct corruptive practices in the pharmaceutical industry could adversely affect our sales and reputation. The government has taken anti-corruption measures to correct corrupt practices. In the pharmaceutical industry, such practices include, among others, acceptance of kickbacks, bribery or other illegal gains or benefits by the hospitals and medical practitioners from pharmaceutical distributors in connection with the prescription of a certain drug. Substantially all of our sales are made to hospitals through third-party distributors. We have no control over our third-party marketing agents and distributors, who may engage in corrupt practices to promote our products. While we maintain strict anti-corruption policies applicable to our internal sales force and third-party marketing agents and distributors, these policies may not be completely effective. If our sales staff or any of our third-party marketing agents and distributors engage in such practices and the government takes enforcement action, our products may be seized and our own practices, and involvement in the distributors’ practices may be investigated. If this occurs, our sales and reputation may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, government-sponsored anti-corruption campaigns from time to time could have an adverse effect on our efforts to reach new hospital customers. Our sales representatives primarily rely on hospital visits to better educate physicians on our products and promote our brand awareness. In the past, there were occasions on which our sales representatives were denied access to hospitals in order to avoid the perception of corruption. If this attitude becomes widespread among our potential customers, our ability to promote our products will be adversely affected. If we are unable to successfully manage our growth, there could be a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have grown rapidly and expect to continue to grow. We expect to hire more employees, particularly in the areas of research and development, regulatory affairs and sales and marketing, and enhance our facilities and corporate infrastructure, further increasing the size of our organization and related expenses. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Because of our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability on the part of our management to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to use our resources in an efficient manner, which may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents We depend upon key employees and consultants in a competitive market for skilled personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, it could adversely affect our ability to develop and market our products. We are highly dependent upon the principal members of our management team, especially our chairman and chief executive officer, Mr. Baizhong Xue. We have employment agreements, non-compete agreements and confidentiality agreements with these key employees. Although these agreements provide for severance payments that are contingent upon the applicable employee’s refraining from competition with us, the applicable provisions can be difficult and costly to monitor and enforce. The loss of any of these persons’ services would adversely affect our ability to develop and market our products. We also depend in part on the continued services of our key scientific personnel and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional personnel, including marketing and sales staff. We face intense competition for qualified personnel, and the existence of non-competition agreements between prospective employees and their former employers may prevent us from hiring those individuals or subject us to suit from their former employers. While we attempt to provide competitive compensation packages to attract and retain key personnel, many of our competitors are likely to have greater resources and more experience than we have, making it difficult for us to compete successfully for key personnel. Certain of our employees and consultants were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors, or at universities or other research institutions. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or consultants have, inadvertently or otherwise, used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to our management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Our collaborations with outside scientists and consultants may be subject to restriction and change. We work with chemists, biologists and other scientists at academic and other institutions, and consultants who assist us in our research, development, regulatory and commercial efforts. These scientists and consultants have provided, and we expect that they will continue to provide, valuable advice on our programs. These scientists and consultants are not our employees, may have other commitments that would limit their future availability to us and typically will not enter into non-compete agreements with us. If a conflict of interest arises between their work for us and their work for another entity, we may lose their services. In addition, we will be unable to prevent them from establishing competing businesses or developing competing products. For example, if a key scientist acting as a principal investigator in any of our clinical trials identifies a potential product or compound that is more scientifically interesting to his or her professional interests, his or her availability to remain involved in such clinical trials could be restricted or eliminated. If we acquire companies, products or technologies, we may face integration risks and costs associated with those acquisitions that could negatively impact our business, results from operations and financial condition. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire or make investments in complementary companies, products or technologies. For example, in July 2009, we entered into a joint venture with QRxPharma Limited, a publicly listed biopharmaceutical company in Australia, to develop and commercialize two bleeding control product candidates in China. We invested $5.0 million in the joint venture for it to fund the clinical trials for the product candidates, regardless of whether we are able to obtain regulatory approvals for their production or successfully commercialize them. We may not realize the anticipated benefit of any acquisition or investment. If we acquire companies or technologies, we will face risks, uncertainties and disruptions associated with the integration process, including difficulties in the integration of the operations of an acquired company, integration of acquired technology with our products, diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired business, the potential involvement into any litigation related to the acquired company, and impairment charges if future acquisitions are not as successful as we originally anticipate. In addition, our operating results may suffer because of acquisition-related costs or amortization expenses or charges relating to acquired intangible assets. Any failure to successfully integrate other companies, products or technologies that we may acquire may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Furthermore, we may have to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any additional future acquisitions or investments, the issuance of which could be dilutive to our existing shareholders. 15 Table of Contents The pharmaceutical industry in China is highly regulated, and future government regulation may place additional burdens on our business. The pharmaceutical industry in China is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. The regulatory framework addresses all aspects of operating in the pharmaceutical industry, including approval, production, distribution, licensing and certification requirements and procedures, periodic renewal and reassessment processes, registration of new drugs and environmental protection. Violation of applicable laws and regulations may materially adversely affect our business. In order to manufacture pharmaceutical products in China, we are required to obtain a pharmaceutical manufacturing permit and GMP certificate for each production line from the relevant food and drug administrative authority. We are required to obtain the drug registration certificate, which includes a drug approval number, from the SFDA for each drug manufactured by us. In addition, in order to distribute any drug in China, we must obtain a pharmaceutical distribution permit and good supply practice, or GSP, certificate from the SFDA. We are required to renew the pharmaceutical manufacturing permits, the pharmaceutical distribution permits, drug registration certificates, GMP certificates and GSP certificates every five years. If we are unable to obtain or renew such permits or any other permits or licenses required for our operation, we will not be able to engage in the manufacture and distribution of our products and our business may be adversely affected. The regulatory framework regarding the pharmaceutical industry in China is subject to change and amendment from time to time. Any such change or amendment may have an adverse effect on our business. Changes to the regulatory framework could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The PRC government has released a number of announcements since April 2009 that collectively outlined a comprehensive plan to reform the healthcare system in China within the next few years, with an overall objective to expand the basic medical insurance coverage and improve the quality and reliability of healthcare services. The details of the reform have yet to be announced and the specific regulatory changes under the reform still remain uncertain. The implementing measures to be issued may not be sufficiently effective to achieve the stated goals, and as a result, we may not be able to benefit from such reform to the level we expect, if at all. Moreover, the reform could give rise to regulatory developments, such as tighter control over product pricing or more burdensome administrative procedures, which may have an adverse effect on our business and prospects. For further information regarding government regulation in China, see “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview —Regulations.” The pharmaceutical industry is extremely competitive and China’s entry to the WTO may intensify this competition in China. Our business is subject to competition from other pharmaceutical manufacturers. Local and overseas pharmaceutical manufacturers engaged in the manufacture and sale of similar products to ours in China may have more capital resources, superior research and development capabilities and more experience in manufacturing and marketing their products. China joined the World Trade Organization, or WTO, in December 2001. Following its entry, China lowered tariffs on certain imported pharmaceutical products as part of its obligation under the WTO framework. The reduction or removal of tariffs on imported pharmaceutical products made such products more competitive with domestic pharmaceutical products. In addition, an increasing number of foreign-invested pharmaceutical manufacturers may establish operations to engage in the manufacture or distribution of pharmaceutical products in China, which would increase the number of suppliers of pharmaceutical products in the market and intensify the competition with domestic manufacturers. If the domestic pharmaceutical manufacturers are unable to distinguish their products from imported products or products produced domestically by foreign-invested pharmaceutical manufacturers, they may lose market share to imported products or products produced domestically by foreign-invested pharmaceutical manufacturers which may be of higher quality and are sold at competitive prices. Furthermore, due to the lack of capital for the research and development of new medicines, most of the domestic pharmaceuticals are imitations of foreign products. Following China’s entry to the WTO, many more companies in Europe and the U.S. have applied for patents in the PRC, thereby increasing the likelihood of litigation for Chinese domestic pharmaceutical companies whose products may be covered by PRC patents owned by foreign companies. 16 Table of Contents Adverse publicity associated with our company or our products or similar products manufactured by our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. There have been recent incidents reported in the Chinese media of a significant number of patients experiencing severe adverse health consequences following their use of biopharmaceutical products manufactured by certain biopharmaceutical companies in China. A number of patients have become ill and a number of fatalities have been reported. For example, several deaths were caused by human immunoglobulin manufactured and sold by Jiangxi Boya Biopharmaceutical Co., Ltd., a PRC biopharmaceutical product manufacturer, in May 2008. We are highly dependent upon market perceptions of the safety and quality of our products. Concerns over the safety of biopharmaceutical products manufactured in China could have an adverse effect on the sale of such products, including products manufactured by us. We could be adversely affected if any of our products or any similar products manufactured by other companies prove to be, or are alleged to be, harmful to patients. Any negative publicity associated with severe adverse reactions or other adverse effects resulting from patients’ use or misuse of our products or any similar products manufactured by other companies could also have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We have not, to date, experienced any significant quality control or safety problems. If in the future we become involved in incidents of the type described above, such problems could severely and adversely impact our product sales and reputation. We are subject to environmental regulations and may be exposed to liability and potential costs for environmental compliance. We are subject to PRC laws and regulations concerning the discharge of waste water, gaseous waste and solid waste during our manufacturing processes. We are required to establish and maintain facilities to dispose of waste and report the volume of waste to the relevant government authorities, which conduct scheduled or unscheduled inspections of our facilities and treatment of such discharge. We may not at all times comply fully with environmental regulations. Any violation of these regulations may result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, revocations of operating permits, shutdown of our facilities and obligation to take corrective measures. Our cost of complying with current and future environmental protection laws and regulations and our liabilities which may potentially arise from the discharge of effluent water and solid waste may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The government may take steps towards the adoption of more stringent environmental regulations. Due to the possibility of unanticipated regulatory or other developments, the amount and timing of future environmental expenditures may vary substantially from those currently anticipated. If there is any unanticipated change in the environmental regulations, we may need to incur substantial capital expenditures to install, replace, upgrade or supplement our pollution control equipment or make operational changes to limit any adverse impact or potential adverse impact on the environment in order to comply with new environmental protection laws and regulations. If such costs become prohibitively expensive, we may be forced to cease certain aspects of our business operations. We may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims. We do not have any liability or business disruption insurance, and a claim against us, or an interruption in our business, could adversely offset our reputation and our financial results. The development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products entails an inherent risk of harm to the patient and, therefore, product liability. Even though there are no punitive damages under the PRC law, if a product liability claim is brought against us, it may, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, result in damage to our reputation, breach of contract with our customers, decreased demand for our products, costly litigation, product recalls, loss of revenue, and the inability to commercialize some products. We currently are not aware of any existing or anticipated product liability claims with respect to our products. 17 Table of Contents Existing PRC laws and regulations do not require us to nor do we maintain liability insurance to cover product liability claims. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. As a result, we do not have business liability, or in particular, product liability, or disruption insurance coverage for our operations. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. When and if we attempt to obtain product liability insurance for clinical trials, this insurance may be prohibitively expensive, or may not fully cover our potential liabilities. Inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of products that we or our collaborators develop. Power shortages, natural disasters, terrorist acts or other calamities could disrupt our production and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Baquting and our other products are produced at our manufacturing facility in Penglai, China. A significant disruption at that facility, even on a short-term basis, could impair our ability to timely produce and ship products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Our manufacturing operations are vulnerable to interruption and damage from natural and other types of disasters, including earthquake, fire, floods, environmental accidents, power loss, communications failures and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business at our facilities would be seriously impaired. In addition, the nature of our production and research activities could cause significant delays in our programs and make it difficult for us to recover from a disaster. We do not maintain any insurance other than insurance for some of our properties. Accordingly, unexpected business interruptions resulting from disasters could disrupt our operations and thereby result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. In addition, our production process requires a continuous supply of electricity. We encountered power shortages historically due to restricted power supply to industrial users during summers when the usage of electricity was high and supply was limited or as a result of damage to the electricity supply network. Because the duration of those power shortages was brief, they had no material impact on our operations. Interruptions of electricity supply could result in lengthy production shutdowns, increased costs associated with restarting production and the loss of production in progress. Any major suspension or termination of electricity or other unexpected business interruptions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our lease with Shandong Penglai Pharmaceutical Plant is terminated, not renewed or suspended, or if we are required to vacate the leased premises for any reason, our operations may be materially adversely affected. Certain production facilities of Penglai Nuokang Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., or Penglai Nuokang, are located on land leased from a third party, Shandong Penglai Pharmaceutical Plant. The lease will expire on December 31, 2014 and upon its expiration, Penglai Nuokang and Shandong Penglai Pharmaceutical Plant may negotiate to extend the lease agreement. Shandong Penglai Pharmaceutical Plant may immediately terminate the lease if Penglai Nuokang subleases or lends the land use right or buildings to any third parties without its consent or if Penglai Nuokang violates the intended use of the land or uses the land to engage in any illegal activities. Under the lease agreement, any party that unilaterally terminates the lease without cause will pay to the other party damages equal to RMB1.0 million for each year remaining under the lease agreement. In addition, Shandong Penglai Pharmaceutical Plant has not obtained the building ownership certificates for our solid formulation plant. We cannot guarantee that it will ever be able to obtain the necessary building ownership certificates or that PRC government authorities or third parties will not challenge or invalidate its ownership. If Shandong Penglai Pharmaceutical Plant’s ownership of these buildings were challenged or invalidated, we may need to vacate our existing facilities in Penglai and move these manufacturing operations to our facilities in Shenyang or find alternative facilities. Any termination, non-renewal or suspension of the lease or our eviction from the leased premises could disrupt our operations. We might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions and our operations and financial results may be materially and adversely affected. Our future capital needs are uncertain. As a result, we may need to raise additional funds in the future. We may require additional cash resources in the future. Our future cash needs will depend upon: • the extent to which our products are accepted in the market and generate cash flows; 18 Table of Contents • the resources we devote to developing, marketing and producing our products; • the receipt of, and the time and expenses required to obtain and maintain, regulatory clearances and approvals; • our ability to identify and our desire or need to pursue acquisitions or other investments; and • changed business conditions or other future developments. Our revenues may not be sufficient to meet our operational needs and capital requirements, and needed financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our future capital needs and other business reasons could require us to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Moreover, credit arrangements in the PRC are subject to government restrictions and may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under U.S. securities laws. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, every public company is required to include a management report on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. This requirement first applied to our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended on December 31, 2010. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2010. See “Item 15. Controls and Procedures.” However, there is no assurance that we will be able to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in the future. If we fail to do so, we may not be able to produce reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. Moreover, if we were not able to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which would negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Our reporting obligations as a public company, including our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, will continue to place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Based on the market price of our ADSs, the value of our assets, and the composition of our income and assets, we do not believe we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2010. However, the application of the PFIC rules is subject to uncertainty in several respects, and we cannot assure you the U.S. Internal Revenue Service will not take a contrary position. A non-U.S. corporation will be a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for such year is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets) during such year is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. A separate determination must be made after the close of each taxable year as to whether we were a PFIC for that year. Because the value of our assets for purposes of the PFIC test will generally be determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares, fluctuations in the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares may cause us to become a PFIC. In addition, changes in the composition of our income or assets may cause us to become a PFIC. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation”) holds an ADS or an ordinary share, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. Holder. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to Doing Business in China The PRC’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as governmental policies, could affect the financial markets in China, our liquidity and access to capital and our ability to operate our business. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 30 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. More generally, if the business environment in China deteriorates from the perspective of domestic or international investors, our business in China may also be adversely affected. Future changes in laws, regulations or enforcement policies in China could adversely affect our business. Laws, regulations or enforcement policies in China, including those regulating healthcare and the pharmaceutical industry, are evolving and subject to frequent changes. Further, regulatory agencies in China may periodically, and sometimes abruptly, change their enforcement practices. Therefore, prior enforcement activity, or lack of enforcement activity, is not necessarily predictive of future actions. Any enforcement actions against us could have a material and adverse effect on us and the market price of our ADSs. In addition, any litigation or governmental investigation or enforcement proceedings in China may be protracted and may result in substantial cost and diversion of resources and management attention, negative publicity, damage to our reputation and decline in the price of our ADSs. Changes in PRC government policy on foreign investment in China may adversely affect our business and results of operations. As foreign invested enterprises, our wholly owned subsidiaries including Liaoning Nuokang Bio-pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., or Liaoning Nuokang, Shenyang Shouzheng Bio-technology Co., Ltd., or Shenyang Shouzheng, and Penglai Nuokang are subject to restrictions on foreign investment imposed by PRC laws from time to time. For instance, under the Foreign Investment Industrial Guidance Catalogue, some industries are categorized as sectors which are encouraged, restricted or prohibited for foreign investment. According to the latest version of this Catalogue, which became effective on December 1, 2007, our business, other than the distribution of pharmaceutical products, does not belong to the prohibited or the restricted category. As this Catalogue is updated every few years, there can be no assurance that the PRC government will not change its policies in a manner that would cause part or all of our businesses to fall within the restricted or prohibited categories. If any of our businesses becomes prohibited or if we cannot obtain approval from relevant approval authorities to engage in businesses which become restricted for foreign investors, we may be forced to sell or restructure our businesses which have become restricted or prohibited for foreign investment. If we are forced to adjust our corporate structure or business line as a result of changes in government policy on foreign investment, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents Recent regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may limit our ability to acquire PRC companies and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In October 2005, State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, promulgated a regulation known as Circular No. 75 that states that if PRC residents use assets or equity interests in their PRC entities as capital contributions to establish offshore companies or inject assets or equity interests of their PRC entities into offshore companies to raise capital overseas, they must register with local SAFE branches with respect to their overseas investments in offshore companies. They must also file amendments to their registrations if their offshore companies experience material events involving capital variation, such as changes in share capital, share transfers, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions, long-term equity or debt investments or guarantee. Under this regulation, failure to comply with the registration procedures set forth in such regulation may result in restrictions being imposed on the foreign exchange activities of the relevant PRC entity, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent, as well as restrictions on the capital inflow from the offshore entity to the PRC entity. Mr. Baizhong Xue, our chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors, beneficially owned approximately 58.5% of our outstanding share capital as of March 31, 2011. Mr. Xue has registered with the SAFE under the relevant SAFE regulations and updated his registration upon the completion of our initial public offering in December 2009. While we believe our shareholders have complied with existing SAFE registration procedures, any future failure by any of our shareholders who is a PRC resident, or controlled by a PRC resident, to comply with relevant requirements under this regulation could subject our company to fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government, including restrictions on our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make distributions to us and our ability to increase our investment in or to provide loans to our subsidiaries. On December 25, 2006, the People’s Bank of China promulgated the Measures for Administration of Individual Foreign Exchange, on January 5, 2007, the SAFE promulgated Implementation Rules for those measures and on March 28, 2007, the SAFE further promulgated the Operating Procedures on Administration of Foreign Exchange regarding PRC Individuals’ Participation in Employee Share Ownership Plans and Employee Stock Option Plans of Overseas Listed Companies. According to these new foreign exchange regulations, PRC citizens who are granted shares or share options by a company listed on an overseas stock market under its employee share option or share incentive plan are required to register with the SAFE or its local counterparts by following certain procedures. We and our employees who are PRC citizens and individual beneficiary owners or have been granted restricted shares or share options may be subject to these rules. The failure of our PRC individual beneficiary owners and holders of restricted shares or share options to complete their SAFE registrations according to the requirements of local counterparts of the SAFE or the new foreign exchange rules may subject these PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to us or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could materially and adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries and affiliated entities in China. PRC laws and regulations govern our operations in China. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China, regardless of outcome, may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 21 Table of Contents We may not be able to pay dividends to our shareholders. We are a holding company, and we rely on dividends paid by our wholly owned subsidiaries, Liaoning Nuokang, Shenyang Shouzheng and Penglai Nuokang, for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay any dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, service any debt we may incur and pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends in China is subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. The payment of dividends by Nuokang Distribution, our variable interest enterprise, or VIE, is proposed by its sole shareholder, Mr. Baizhong Xue, our chairman and chief executive officer, subject to Penglai Nuokang’s approval. Repayment by Mr. Xue of these dividends to Penglai Nuokang under the contractual arrangements is subject to applicable PRC laws and regulations. Each of our subsidiaries is required to allocate at least 10% of its net profit after tax to its general reserve fund until the balance of such fund has reached 50% of its registered capital. These funds are not distributable in cash dividends. If our subsidiaries are unable to pay us sufficient dividends due to statutory or contractual restrictions on their ability to distribute dividends to us, we may not be able to pay dividends to our shareholders and our various other cash needs may not be met. In addition, our debt arrangements and those of our subsidiaries that we may enter into from time to time may impose operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. These restrictions may limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends. In addition, if our subsidiaries incur debts or losses, such indebtedness or loss may impair their ability to pay dividends to us and limit our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Our ability to declare dividends in relation to our shares will also depend on our future financial performance, which in turn depends on successfully implementing our strategy and on financial, competitive, regulatory, and other factors, general economic conditions, demand and prices for our services, costs of supplies and other factors specific to our industry or specific projects, many of which are beyond our control. The receipt of dividends from our subsidiaries may also be affected by the passage of new laws, adoption of new regulations or changes to, or in the interpretation or implementation of existing laws and regulations and other events outside our control. In particular, as our operating subsidiaries are located in the PRC, we may be adversely affected by implementation of capital and other exchange controls by the PRC Government. See “Item 8. Financial Information—Dividend Policy” for a discussion of our dividend policy. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. We receive all of our revenues in Renminbi, which currently is not a freely convertible currency. A portion of our revenues may be converted into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payments of dividends declared, if any, in respect of our ordinary shares or ADSs. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, our subsidiaries are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies or convert Renminbi into other currencies for use in operations without prior approval from the SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take future measures to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to obtain foreign exchange is subject to significant foreign exchange controls and, in the case of amounts under the capital account, requires the approval of and/or registration with PRC government authorities, including the SAFE. In particular, if we finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of foreign debt from us or other foreign lenders, the amount is not allowed to exceed the difference between the amount of total investment and the amount of the registered capital as approved by the Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, and registered with the SAFE. Further, such loans must be registered with the SAFE. Currently, the amount of total investment of each of Shenyang Shouzheng and Penglai Nuokang is equal to the amount of its registered capital. If we finance Shenyang Shouzheng and Penglai Nuokang by means of foreign debt, we must obtain approvals from the local MOFCOM branches to increase the amount of their total investment first. If we fail to receive approval from the local MOFCOM branches to increase the amount of our subsidiaries’ total investment, we may not finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of foreign debts. If we finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, the amount of these capital contributions must first be approved by the relevant government approval authority. These limitations could affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. 22 Table of Contents Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including the U.S. dollar, has historically been set by the People’s Bank of China. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy caused the Renminbi to appreciate in approximately more than 20% against the U.S. dollar over the following five years. It is difficult to predict how long the current situation may last and when and how it may change again. As we import our primary raw material from Brazil and may import certain production equipment in the future, fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may affect our cost of production. In addition, as we rely entirely on dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ordinary shares in foreign currency terms. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would reduce the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making dividend payments on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would reduce the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Our business benefits from certain government tax incentives. Expiration of, or changes to, these incentives could have a material adverse effect on our operating results by significantly increasing our tax expenses. The PRC government has provided various tax incentives to foreign-invested companies, such as Liaoning Nuokang, Shenyang Shouzheng and Penglai Nuokang, although these incentives are subject to the new enterprise income tax law, or the new EIT law. Such tax incentives include reduced tax rates and other measures. Under the PRC tax laws effective prior to January 1, 2008, domestic companies typically were subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 33%. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted the new EIT law, and the implementation rules of such new EIT law were promulgated by the State Council of China on December 6, 2007. Under the new EIT law and its implementation rules, foreign invested enterprises, or FIEs, and domestic companies would be subject to an enterprise income tax at a uniform rate of 25%. The new EIT law and its implementation rules became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the new EIT law, enterprises that were established and already enjoyed tax holidays of two-year tax exemption and three-year tax reduction of 50% before March 16, 2007 will continue to enjoy such preferential tax treatment until the expiration of such term. Liaoning Nuokang, Shenyang Shouzheng and Penglai Nuokang are foreign-invested companies established in 2005, 2006 and 2006, respectively, which were subject to the two-year tax exemption and three-year tax reduction of 50%. They continue to enjoy the preferential tax treatment until the expiration of such term. The tables below set forth the applicable income tax rates of our subsidiaries and Nuokang Distribution for the periods indicated. Subsidiary 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Liaoning Nuokang 0 % 0 % 12.5 % 12.5 % 12.5 % Shenyang Shouzheng 15 % 0 % 0 % 12.5 % 12.5 % Penglai Nuokang 0 %(1) 0 % 12.5 % 12.5 % 12.5 % Nuokang Distribution 33 % 33 % 25.0 % 25.0 % 25.0 % (1) Penglai Nuokang became fully exempted from enterprise income tax, or EIT, starting in September 2006. Prior to that, it was subject to EIT at a statutory rate of 33%. Under the new EIT law and its implementation rules, enterprises that are “high and new technology enterprises strongly supported by the State” are entitled to a reduced EIT rate of 15%. Enterprises may choose to benefit from the two-year tax exemption and three-year tax reduction of 50% tax holidays or the reduced EIT rate of 15% during the transition period before the expiration of the tax holidays. In 2008, the relevant PRC authorities recognized Liaoning Nuokang and Penglai Nuokang as “high and new technology enterprises” through 2011, after which we plan to apply for the renewal of these qualifications. We will also apply for the “high and new technology enterprise” qualification for Shenyang Shouzheng, whose existing preferential tax treatment expires in 2012. Liaoning Nuokang, Penglai Nuokang and Shenyang Shouzheng have chosen to benefit from the tax holidays during the transition period. However, after the expiration of the tax holidays, Liaoning Nuokang, Penglai Nuokang or Shenyang Shouzheng may not be qualified as “high and new technology enterprises”. Any discontinuation of preferential tax treatments or any increase of the EIT rate applicable to our subsidiaries or Nuokang Distribution could increase our tax expense and materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents The dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiaries and our global income may be subject to PRC tax under the new EIT law, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, and dividends distributed by us to our non-PRC shareholders or any gains realized by non-PRC shareholders from transfer of our shares may be subject to PRC tax. Under the new EIT law, dividends, interests, rents and royalties payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in the PRC to its foreign investor who is a non-resident enterprise, as well as gains on transfers of shares of a foreign-invested enterprise in the PRC by such a foreign investor, will be subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless such non-resident enterprise’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with the PRC that provides for a reduced rate of withholding tax. Surplus International Investments Limited, or Surplus International, the 100% shareholder of Liaoning Nuokang, Shenyang Shouzheng and Penglai Nuokang, is incorporated in Hong Kong. According to the Mainland and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Arrangement on Avoiding Double Taxation or Evasion of Taxation on Income agreed between China and Hong Kong in August 2006, dividends paid by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its direct holding company in Hong Kong will be subject to withholding tax at a rate of no more than 5% (if the foreign investor owns directly at least 25% of the shares of the foreign-invested enterprise). Therefore, if Surplus International is considered a non-resident enterprise for purposes of the new EIT law, this new withholding tax imposed on dividends paid to us by our PRC subsidiaries would reduce our net income in the event we decide to declare a dividend, which may have an adverse effect on our operating results. Under the new EIT law, an enterprise established outside the PRC with its “de facto management body” within the PRC is considered a “resident enterprise” and will be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its worldwide income. The “de facto management body” is defined as the organizational body that effectively exercises overall management and control over production and business operations, personnel, finance and accounting, and properties of the enterprise. It remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will interpret such a broad definition. Substantially all of our management members are based in the PRC. If the PRC tax authorities subsequently determine that we should be classified as a resident enterprise, then our worldwide income will be subject to income tax at a uniform rate of 25%, which will decrease our earnings from operations. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, the new EIT law also provides that, if a resident enterprise directly invests in another resident enterprise, the dividends received by the investing resident enterprise from the invested enterprise are exempted from income tax, subject to certain conditions. Therefore, if we are classified as a resident enterprise, the dividends received from our PRC subsidiaries may be exempted from income tax. However, it remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will interpret the PRC tax resident treatment of an offshore company having ownership interest in a PRC enterprise. In addition, because there remains uncertainty regarding the interpretation and implementation of the new EIT law and its implementation rules, if we are regarded as a PRC resident enterprise, any dividends to be distributed by us to our non-PRC shareholders or any gains realized by non-PRC shareholders or ADS holders from transfer of our shares or ADSs may be subject to PRC tax. If we are required under the new EIT law to withhold PRC income tax on the above dividends or if investors are subject to PRC income tax on gains on sale of ADSs or shares, your investment in our shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. If the approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission was required in connection with our initial public offering in December 2009, we could be subject to sanctions, fines and other penalties. The regulation also establishes more complex procedures for acquisitions by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult to pursue growth through acquisitions. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the MOFCOM and the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, jointly promulgated the Regulation on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors, which became effective on September 8, 2006. This regulation, among other things, requires offshore special purpose vehicles, formed for overseas listing purposes through acquisitions of PRC domestic companies and controlled by PRC individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to publicly listing their securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published a notice specifying the documents and materials that are required to be submitted for obtaining CSRC approval. Our PRC counsel, Tian Yuan Law Firm, has advised us that this regulation does not apply to us and that CSRC approval is not required because we obtained approvals from the local branches of MOFCOM for the acquisition of Liaoning Nuokang, Shenyang Shouzheng and Penglai Nuokang, our wholly owned subsidiaries in the PRC, before September 8, 2006, the effective date of this new regulation. Based on the advice we have received from our PRC counsel, we did not seek the CSRC approval in connection with our initial public offering in December 2009. Although this regulation was adopted over three years ago, there remains uncertainty as to how this regulation will be interpreted or implemented. If the CSRC or other PRC regulatory authorities subsequently determine that the CSRC’s approval was required for our initial public offering, we may face sanctions by the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. In that case, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, restrict or prohibit payment or remittance of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. 24 Table of Contents The regulation also established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the MOFCOM be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses. Complying with the requirements of this regulation to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the MOFCOM, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions. Any delay or inability to obtain applicable approvals to complete acquisitions could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. We face risks related to health epidemics and outbreaks of contagious diseases. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of H1N1 pandemic avian flu, SARS or other epidemics or outbreaks. China reported a number of cases of SARS in April 2004. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. Recently, concerns have been raised with respect to the spread of avian influenza and the H1N1 pandemic in various regions of China. Any prolonged recurrence of avian flu, SARS or other adverse public health developments in China may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. These could include temporary closure of our manufacturing facilities, as well as certain sectors of the hospital industry. Such closures or impact over business of hospitals would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of avian flu, SARS or any other epidemic. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure Our contractual arrangements with Nuokang Distribution and its shareholder may not be as effective in providing control over the entity as direct ownership. According to the PRC Drug Administration Law and other applicable regulations, our subsidiaries in China may only sell the pharmaceutical products that we manufacture to certain distributors and we may not sell products that others manufacture. Accordingly, Mr. Baizhong Xue, our chairman and chief executive officer, established Nuokang Distribution in 1999 with four other shareholders to engage in the distribution of pharmaceutical products. Mr. Xue subsequently became the sole shareholder of Nuokang Distribution. Substantially all of our sales are conducted through Nuokang Distribution, which was the direct contracting party with most of our key distributors. We are a party to certain contractual arrangements with Nuokang Distribution which are designed to provide us with certain effective control over, and substantially all of the economic benefits of, Nuokang Distribution. If Nuokang Distribution or its sole shareholder, Mr. Baizhong Xue, refuses to make payments or otherwise refuses to perform their contractual obligations necessary for us to realize these sales contracts, we may not be able to distribute our products and our financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. We currently conduct our sales activities through Nuokang Distribution by means of contractual arrangements. If the PRC government determines that the contractual arrangements do not comply with applicable regulations, our business could be adversely affected. We conduct our sales activities through contractual arrangements with Nuokang Distribution, which holds the licenses and approvals, including a pharmaceutical distribution permit that is essential for the distribution of our products. We have contractual arrangements with Nuokang Distribution and its sole shareholder, Mr. Baizhong Xue, our chairman and chief executive officer, that allow us to substantially control this entity. These contracts include business cooperation agreements, which impose certain restrictions on the conduct of Nuokang Distribution’s businesses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enforce these contracts. Although we believe we comply with current PRC regulations, we cannot assure you that the PRC government would agree that our arrangements with Nuokang Distribution and its sole shareholder comply with PRC licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. 25 Table of Contents There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current and future PRC laws and regulations and the PRC government may determine that the contractual arrangements were designed to circumvent the applicable PRC laws and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our contractual arrangements with Nuokang Distribution and its sole shareholder will be enforceable. If the PRC government determines that we are not in compliance with applicable law, it could revoke our business and operating licenses, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenues, require us to restructure our operations, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, impose restrictions on our business operations or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. The sole shareholder of Nuokang Distribution has potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business. Nuokang Distribution is 100% owned by Mr. Baizhong Xue, our chairman and chief executive officer. Although Mr. Baizhong Xue owes us a duty of loyalty and care under Cayman Islands law, the potential exists for conflicts of interests between his duties to us and his ownership interests in Nuokang Distribution. In particular, Mr. Xue may be able to cause our agreements with Nuokang Distribution to be performed or amended in a manner adverse to us by, among other things, failing to remit payments to us on a timely basis or operating Nuokang Distribution so as to cause harm to our business. We can provide no assurance that if potential conflicts of interests arise, these conflicts will not result in a significant loss in corporate opportunities for us or a diversion of our resources to Nuokang Distribution, which may not be in the best interest of our company and our other shareholders. Except for the trademarks “ ” (Baquting) and “ ” (Danya) that are owned by Penglai Nuokang, the trademarks “ ” , “Nuokang”, “ ”, “ ” and “ ” that are owned by Liaoning Nuokang, all other trademarks we are currently using are owned by Nuokang Distribution. We received long term licenses from Nuokang Distribution to use these trademarks. We may need additional licenses from Nuokang Distribution in the future if we plan to use other trademarks it owns. As a result of the conflict of interest between Nuokang Distribution and us, the terms of such licenses may not be favorable to us. Our contractual arrangements with Nuokang Distribution may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and we could be required to pay additional taxes, which could substantially reduce our consolidated net income and the value of your investment. Arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audits or challenges by the PRC tax authorities. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that our contractual arrangements with Nuokang Distribution are not arm’s-length transactions. If this were to occur, the tax authorities could adjust Nuokang Distribution’s income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of expense deductions recorded by Nuokang Distribution, which could in turn increase its tax liabilities. The PRC tax authorities could also impose late payment fees and other penalties on Nuokang Distribution for under-paid taxes. In addition, any challenge by the PRC tax authorities may limit the ability of Nuokang Distribution to receive any preferential tax treatments and other financial incentives. Our consolidated net income may be materially and adversely affected if Nuokang Distribution’s tax liabilities increase or if it is found to be subject to late payment fees or other penalties. Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market price for our ADSs is likely to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and changes or revisions of our expected results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; 26 Table of Contents • announcements of studies and reports relating to the effectiveness or safety of our products or those of our competitors; • negative publicity associated with pharmaceutical companies, particularly in China; • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • any litigation, governmental investigation or enforcement proceedings brought against us by authorities and industry regulators in China or elsewhere; • announcements regarding patent litigation or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; • addition or departure of our senior management and key research and development personnel; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other pharmaceutical or health care companies; • economic, regulatory or political developments in China; • release or expiration of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; and • sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs, or the perception that such sales might occur. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. Substantial future sales of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. If any existing shareholder or shareholders sell a substantial amount of ordinary shares in the form of ADSs, the market price of our ADSs could decline. In addition, we may issue additional ordinary shares as considerations for future acquisitions. If we do so, your ownership interests in our company would be diluted and this in turn could have an adverse effect on the price of our ADSs. Our principal shareholder have substantial influence over our company and their interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. Mr. Baizhong Xue, our chairman and chief executive officer, beneficially owned approximately 58.2% of our outstanding share capital as of March 31, 2011. Because of this high level of shareholding, Mr. Xue has substantial influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. Mr. Xue may take actions that are not in the best interest of us or our other shareholders. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights as holders of our ordinary shares and ADS holders only have such rights as are specified in the deposit agreement, which generally are more restricted than the rights of holders of ordinary shares. Under our articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is at least 21 days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ordinary shares are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholder meeting. 27 Table of Contents You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. You may not receive cash dividends if the depositary decides that it is inequitable or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property, in which event you would not receive such distribution. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, you may have less protection of your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, the rights of minority shareholders to institute actions, and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the latter of which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in the United States. In particular, because the Cayman Islands has no legislation specifically dedicated to the rights of investors in securities, and thus no statutorily defined private causes of action specific to investors in securities such as those found under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in the United States, it provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. 28 Table of Contents There is uncertainty regarding whether Cayman Islands courts would: • recognize or enforce against us or our directors or officers judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • impose liability against us or our directors or officers, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws or laws of any state in the U.S. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Your ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, will be limited because we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, because we conduct substantially all of our operations in China and because the majority of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and we conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our PRC subsidiaries. Most of our directors and officers reside, and substantially all of the assets of those persons are located, outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process upon these persons within the United States or to enforce against us or these persons in U.S. courts, judgments obtained in U.S. courts, including judgments based on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. In addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the United States, liabilities based on the U.S. federal securities laws. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or our officers and directors predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. Our PRC counsel has advised us that China does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. It is also uncertain whether the Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or our officers and directors predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Our articles of association contains anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our amended and restated articles of association contain provisions limiting the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preference shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADSs or otherwise. Preference shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preference shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. 