D. Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS Prospects for companies in the pharmaceutical industry generally may be regarded as uncertain given the research and development nature of the industry and uncertainty regarding the prospects of successfully commercializing product candidates and, accordingly, investments in companies such as ours should be regarded as very speculative. An investor should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information contained in this annual report. The list of risks and uncertainties described below is not an exhaustive list. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any one or more of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Further, if we fail to meet the expectations of the public market in any given period, the market price of our common shares could decline. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our activities entail significant risks. In addition to the usual risks associated with a business, the following is a general description of certain significant risk factors which may be applicable to us. Risks related to our Company We may require additional funds in our business that may be difficult to obtain when needed or on terms acceptable to us. As of November 30, 2010, we had a cash balance of $0.8 million. On February 1, 2011, we completed a private offering of 4,800,000 units of the Company, each Unit consisting of one common share, a five-year warrant to purchase one-half of a common share at an exercise price of $2.50 per whole share and a two-year warrant to purchase one-half of a common share at an exercise price of $2.50 per whole share, for gross proceeds of $12,000,000. As of February 28, 2011, we had a cash balance of $10.5 million. We anticipate our burn rate, namely cash flows used in operating activities excluding financing expense, will be approximately $3.9 million during the -3- remainder of fiscal 2011. Depending on the progress of ongoing partnering initiatives, the Company may elect to increase or reduce expenses associated with its current development plan. In the future, we will require substantial capital in order to continue to conduct the research and development, clinical and regulatory activities necessary to bring our products to market and to establish commercial manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities that may be difficult or impossible to obtain when needed or on terms acceptable to us. In order to secure future financing, if it is even available, it is likely that we would need to sell additional common shares or financial instruments that are exchangeable for or convertible into common shares and/or enter into development, distribution and/or licensing relationships. Any future debt financing arrangements we enter into would likely contain restrictive covenants that would impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. Our ability to obtain funding will depend in part upon prevailing capital market conditions and our business performance. Any additional financing may not be obtained at favourable terms, if at all. Any future equity financing may also be dilutive to existing shareholders. If we cannot obtain adequate funding on reasonable terms, we may terminate or delay clinical trials for one or more of our product candidates curtail significant product development programs that are designed to identify new product candidates, and/or sell or assign rights to our technologies, products or product candidates. We have a history of losses. We have incurred losses from 2002 (when Intellipharmaceutics Ltd., our predecessor company, commenced operations) through November 30, 2010 and continue to incur losses. As at November 30, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $19.1 million. For the year ended November 30, 2010 we had a loss of $5.8 million. Our losses for the fiscal periods ended November 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $1.8 million, $3.8 million, $1.3 million and $1.3 million, respectively. These historical financial losses and our continued losses and financial condition could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing in the future or could reduce the value the market places on our common shares. As we engage in the development of products in our pipeline, we will continue to incur losses. There can be no assurance that we will ever be able to achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flow. Our ultimate success will depend on whether our drug formulations receive the approval of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) or other applicable regulatory agencies needed to commercially market them and if we will be able to successfully market approved products. We cannot be certain that we will be able to receive FDA approval for any of our drug formulations, or if we do, that we will reach the level of sales and revenues necessary to achieve and sustain profitability. We are dependent on key personnel. We are dependent upon the scientific expertise of Dr. Isa Odidi, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Dr. Amina Odidi, our President and Chief Operating Officer. Although we now employ, and will in the future expect to continue to employ other qualified scientists, we are substantially dependent upon the efforts of Drs. Isa and Amina Odidi as they are our only employees who have the knowledge and know-how relating to the development of controlled-release products that we believe is necessary for us to continue development of our products. The success of our business depends, in large part, on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, scientific, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel, on our ability to successfully integrate large numbers of new employees into our corporate culture, and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading research and medical institutions and key distributors. Competition for these types of personnel and relationships is intense, and the failure to obtain and retain such personnel could have material adverse consequences. Our intellectual property may not provide meaningful protection for our product candidates. We hold certain U.S., Canadian and foreign patents and have pending applications for additional patents. We intend to continue to seek patent protection for, or maintain as trade secrets, all of the drug delivery platforms and technologies that we have discovered, developed or acquired that we believe may be commercially promising. -4- Our success depends, in part, on our ability, and our collaborative partners’ ability, to obtain and maintain patent protection for new product candidates, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. As with most pharmaceutical companies, our patent position is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Without patent and other similar protection, other companies could offer substantially identical products for sale without incurring the sizeable development costs that we have incurred. Our ability to recover these expenditures and realize profits upon the sale of products could be diminished. The process of obtaining patents can be time-consuming and expensive, with no certainty of success. Even if we spend the necessary time and money, a patent may not be issued or it may insufficiently protect the technology it was intended to protect. We can never be certain that we were first to develop the technology or that we were the first to file a patent application for the particular technology because of the time that elapses between patent filing and publication, and because publications in the scientific or patent literature lag behind actual discoveries. If our pending patent applications are not approved for any reason, or if we are unable to receive patent protection for additional proprietary technologies that we develop, the degree of future protection for our proprietary technology will remain uncertain. Furthermore, third parties may independently develop similar or alternative technologies, duplicate some or all of our technologies, design around our patented technologies or challenge our issued patents. Such third parties may have filed patent applications, or hold issued patents, relating to products or processes competitive with those we are developing. The patents of our competitors may impair our ability to do business in a particular area. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, protect trade secrets and other proprietary information and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We operate in a highly litigious environment. The cost of commencing or defending litigation, if necessary, could be significant and could significantly drain our limited financial resources and disrupt our business operations. While there is no litigation pending or threatened against us (other than as described under Item 8.A), litigation to which we may be subjected could relate to, among other things, our patent and other intellectual property rights, licensing arrangements with other persons, product liability and financing activities. Such litigation could include an injunction against the manufacture or sale of a product or potential product or a significant monetary judgment, including a possible punitive damages award, or a judgment that certain of our patent or other intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable or infringe the intellectual property rights of others. If such litigation is commenced, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. There has been substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry concerning the manufacture, use and sale of new products that are the subject of conflicting patent rights. When we file an abbreviated new drug application (“ANDA”) for a bioequivalent version of a drug, we may, in some circumstances, be required to certify to the FDA that any patent which has been listed with the FDA as covering the branded product has expired, the date any such patent will expire, or that any such patent is invalid or will not be infringed by the manufacture, sale or use of the new drug for which the application is submitted. Approval of an ANDA is not effective until each listed patent expires, unless the applicant certifies that the patents at issue are not infringed or are invalid and so notifies the patent holder and the holder of the branded product. A patent holder may challenge a notice of non-infringement or invalidity by suing for patent infringement within 45 days of receiving notice. Such a challenge would prevent FDA approval for a period which ends 30 months after the receipt of notice, or sooner if an appropriate court rules that the patent is invalid or not infringed. From time to time, in the ordinary course of business, we face such challenges and may continue to do so in the future. Brand-name pharmaceutical manufacturers routinely bring patent infringement litigation against ANDA applicants seeking FDA approval to manufacture and market generic forms of their branded products. We are routinely subject to patent litigation that can delay or prevent our commercialization of products, force us to incur substantial expense to defend, and expose us to substantial liability. We have a reliance on key proprietary information. We rely on trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information as well as requiring our employees and other vendors and suppliers to sign confidentiality agreements. However, these confidentiality agreements may be breached, and they may not have adequate remedies for such breaches. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information without infringing upon any proprietary technology. Third parties may otherwise gain access to our proprietary information and adopt it in a competitive manner. -5- We cannot ensure the availability of raw materials. Certain raw materials, which may be necessary for the development and subsequent commercial manufacturing of our product candidates, may be proprietary products of other companies. We attempt to manage the risk associated with such proprietary raw materials by the imposition of contractual provisions in supply contracts that we believe are favourable to us, by management of inventories and by the continued search for alternative authorized suppliers of such materials or their equivalents. If this fails, or if there is a material shortage, contamination, and/or recall of such materials, the resulting scarcity could adversely affect our ability to develop or manufacture our product candidates. The FDA requires identification of raw material suppliers in applications for approval of drug products. If raw materials were unavailable from a specified supplier or if the supplier does not give us access to its technical information in respect of our application or the supplier was not in compliance with FDA or other applicable requirements, the FDA approval of a new supplier could delay the manufacture of the drug involved. As a result, there is no guarantee we will always have timely and sufficient access to a required raw material or other product. Any inability to obtain raw materials on a timely basis, or any significant price increases which cannot be passed on to customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Many third-party suppliers are subject to governmental regulation and, accordingly, we are dependent on the regulatory compliance of these third parties. We also depend on the strength, enforceability and terms of our various contracts with our third-party suppliers. Our product candidates may not be successfully developed or commercialized. Successful development of our products is highly uncertain and is dependent on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. Products that appear promising in research or early phases of development may fail to reach later stages of development or the market for several reasons including: · for ANDA candidates, bioequivalence studies results may not meet regulatory requirements for the demonstration of bioequivalence; · for new drug application (“NDA”) candidates, a product may not demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results, even though it demonstrated positive preclinical trial results; · for NDA candidates, a product may not be effective in treating a specified condition or illness; · a product may have harmful side effects on humans; · products may fail to receive the necessary regulatory approvals from the FDA or other regulatory bodies, or there may be delays in receiving such approvals. Among other things, such delays may be caused by slow enrolment in clinical studies, extended lengths of time to achieve study endpoints, additional time requirements for data analysis, discussions with the FDA, FDA requests for additional preclinical or clinical data, or unexpected safety, efficacy or manufacturing issues; · difficulties may be encountered in formulating products, scaling up manufacturing processes or in getting approval for manufacturing; · manufacturing costs, pricing or reimbursement issues, other competitive therapeutics, or other commercial factors may make the product uneconomical; and · the proprietary rights of others, and their competing products and technologies, may prevent the product from being developed or commercialized. For both ANDA and NDA products, success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that large-scale clinical trials will be successful. As well, for ANDA candidates, success in preliminary studies does not ensure that bioequivalence studies will be successful. Results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. The length of time necessary to complete bioequivalence studies or clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. -6- As a result, there can be no assurance that any of our products currently in development will ever be successfully commercialized. Near term revenues depend significantly on the success of our lead product, our once daily dexmethylphenidate XR generic. We have invested a significant time and effort in the development of our lead product, our once daily dexmethylphenidate XR generic. It has not yet received regulatory approval, although it remains our most advanced product. There can be no assurance that this product will receive regulatory approval. We anticipate that in the near term our ability to generate significant revenues will depend in part on the regulatory approval and successful commercialization of this product in the United States, where the branded Focalin XR® product is in the market. Although we have several other products in our pipeline, they are at earlier stages of development. We depend significantly on the actions of our development partner, Par Pharmaceutical Inc. (“Par” or “Par Pharmaceutical”), in the prosecution to regulatory approval and commercialization of our once daily dexmethylphenidate XR generic. Two applications for approval to commercialize our once daily dexmethylphenidate XR generic have been filed and are pending before the FDA. We depend significantly on the actions of our development partner Par in the prosecution and regulatory approval and commercialization of our once daily dexmethylphenidate XR generic. Our significant expenditures on research and development may not lead to successful product introductions. We conduct research and development primarily to enable us to manufacture and market pharmaceuticals in accordance with FDA regulations. We are required to obtain FDA approval before marketing our drug products. The FDA approval process is rigorous, time consuming and costly. Typically, research expenses related to the development of innovative compounds and the filing of NDAs are significantly greater than those expenses associated with ANDAs. As we continue to develop new products, our research expenses will likely increase. Because of the inherent risk associated with research and development efforts in our industry, particularly with respect to new drugs, our research and development expenditures may not result in the successful introduction of new pharmaceuticals that have been approved by the FDA. Factors affecting our R&D expenses include, but are not limited to, the number of, and the outcomes of, bioavailability/bioequivalence studies currently being conducted by us and/or our collaborators. For example, our R&D expenses may increase based on the number of bioavailability/bioequivalence studies or clinical trials being conducted by us and/or our collaborators during a certain period. We may not have the ability to develop or license, or otherwise acquire, and introduce new products on a timely basis. Product development is inherently risky, especially for new drugs for which safety and efficacy have not been established and the market is not yet proven. Likewise, product licensing involves inherent risks including uncertainties due to matters that may affect the achievement of milestones, as well as the possibility of contractual disagreements with regard to terms such as license scope or termination rights. The development and commercialization process, particularly with regard to new drugs, also requires substantial time, effort and financial resources. The process of obtaining FDA or other regulatory approval to manufacture and market new and generic pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time consuming, costly and largely unpredictable. We, or a partner, may not be successful in obtaining FDA or other required regulatory approval or in commercializing any of the products that we are currently developing or licensing or any future products. We may not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we announce and expect. We set goals for and make public statements regarding our expected timing of meeting the objectives material to our success, such as the commencement and completion of clinical trials, anticipated regulatory approval and product launch dates. The actual timing of these forward looking events can vary dramatically due to factors such as availability of funding, delays or failures in our clinical trials or bioequivalence studies, the need to develop additional data required by regulators as a condition of approval, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory -7- approval process, delays in achieving manufacturing or marketing arrangements necessary to commercialize our product candidates and failure by our collaborators, marketing and distribution partners, suppliers and other third parties with whom we have contractual arrangements, to fulfill, in whole or in part, their contractual obligations towards us. Our products may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance. Even if we are able to obtain regulatory approvals for our proposed products, the success of those products will be dependent upon market acceptance. Levels of market acceptance for any products to be marketed by us could be affected by several factors, including: · the availability of alternative products from competitors; · the prices of our products relative to those of our competitors; · the timing of our market entry; · the ability to market our products effectively at the retail level; and · the acceptance of our products by government and private formularies. Some of these factors are not within our control, and our proposed products may not achieve levels of market acceptance anticipated by us. Additionally, continuing and increasingly sophisticated studies of the proper utilization, safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products are being conducted by the industry, government agencies and others which can call into question the utilization, safety and efficacy of products we are currently developing or may develop in the future. These studies could also impact a future product after it has been marketed. In some cases, studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of product marketing or requirement of other risk management programs such as the need for a patient registry. We do not have experience in conducting clinical trials and submitting NDAs. With respect to products that we develop that are not generic equivalents of existing brand-name drugs and thus do not qualify for the FDA’s abbreviated application procedures, we must demonstrate through clinical trials that these products are safe and effective for use. We have only limited experience in conducting and supervising clinical trials. The process of completing clinical trials and preparing an NDA may take several years and requires substantial resources. Our studies and filings may not result in FDA approval to market our new drug products and, if the FDA grants approval, we cannot predict the timing of any approval. There are substantial filing fees for NDAs that are not refundable if FDA approval is not obtained. There is no assurance that our expenses related to NDAs and clinical trials will lead to the development of brand-name drugs that will generate revenues in the future. Delays or failure in the development and commercialization of our own branded products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. We face risks and uncertainties inherent in conducting clinical trials. There are a number of risks and uncertainties associated with clinical trials. The results of clinical trials may not be indicative of results that would be obtained from large scale testing. Clinical trials are often conducted with patients having advanced stages of disease and, as a result, during the course of treatment these patients can die or suffer adverse medical effects for reasons that may not be related to the pharmaceutical agents being tested, but which nevertheless affect the clinical trial results. In addition, side effects experienced by the patients may cause delay of approval of our product or a limited application of an approved product. Moreover, our clinical trials may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain FDA approval. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process and, in addition, the results from early clinical trials may not be predictive of results obtained in later and larger clinical trials, and product candidates in later clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety or efficacy despite having progressed successfully through earlier clinical testing. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in clinical -8- trials, even in advanced clinical trials after showing positive results in earlier clinical trials. In the future, the completion of clinical trials for our product candidates may be delayed or halted for many reasons, including: · delays in patient enrolment, and variability in the number and types of patients available for clinical trials; · regulators or institutional review boards may not allow us to commence or continue a clinical trial; · our inability, or the inability of our partners, to manufacture or obtain from third parties materials sufficient to complete our clinical trials; · delays or failures in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical trial contracts or clinical trial protocols with prospective clinical trial sites; · risks associated with trial design, which may result in a failure of the trial to show statistically significant results even if the product candidate is effective; · difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment commences, resulting in incomplete data; · poor effectiveness of product candidates during clinical trials; · safety issues, including adverse events associated with product candidates; · the failure of patients to complete clinical trials due to adverse side effects, dissatisfaction with the product candidate, or other reasons; · governmental or regulatory delays or changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines; and · varying interpretation of data by the FDA or other applicable foreign regulatory agencies. In addition, our product candidates could be subject to competition for clinical study sites and patients from other therapies under development by other companies which may delay the enrolment in or initiation of our clinical trials. Many of these companies have significantly more resources than we do. The FDA or other foreign regulatory authorities may require us to conduct unanticipated additional clinical trials, which could result in additional expense and delays in bringing our product candidates to market. Any failure or delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates would prevent or delay the commercialization of our product candidates. There is no assurance our expenses related to clinical trials will lead to the development of brand-name drugs which will generate revenues in the near future. Delays or failure in the development and commercialization of our own branded products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition, and our growth prospects. We rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials. Although we may design or have control in the design of the clinical trials for our product candidates, we rely on contract research organizations and other third parties to assist it in managing, monitoring and otherwise carrying out these trials, including with respect to site selection, contract negotiation and data management. We do not control these third parties and, as a result, they may not treat our clinical studies as their highest priority, or in the manner in which we would prefer, which could result in delays. Moreover, although we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with our general investigational plan and protocol. In addition, the FDA and other similar regulatory agencies outside the United States require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. If we, our contract research organizations or our study sites fail to comply with applicable good clinical practices, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA or other regulatory agencies may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. There can be no assurance that, upon inspection, the FDA or such other agencies will determine that any of our clinical trials comply -9- with good clinical practices. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted using products manufactured under the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices (“cGMP”), regulations. Our failure, or the failure of our contract manufacturers, if any, involved in the process, to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would delay and increase the cost of the regulatory approval process. If third parties do not successfully carry out their duties under their agreements with us; if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements; or if they otherwise fail to comply with clinical trial protocols or meet expected deadlines, our clinical trials may not meet regulatory requirements. If our clinical trials do not meet regulatory requirements or if these third parties need to be replaced, such clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates. Competition in our industry is intense, and developments by other companies could render our product candidates obsolete. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and any of our competitors, including medical technology companies, pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, universities, government agencies, or research organizations, have substantially greater financial and technical resources and production and marketing capabilities than we have. They may also have greater experience in conducting bioequivalence studies, preclinical testing and clinical trials of pharmaceutical products and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals. Therefore, our competitors may succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective than the drug delivery technology we are developing or that will cause our technology or products to become obsolete or less competitively effective, and in obtaining FDA approval for products faster than we could. These developments could render our products obsolete and less competitively effective, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we commence commercial sales of our products, we will be competing against the greater manufacturing efficiency and marketing capabilities of our competitors, areas in which we have limited or no experience. In the past, we have relied on, and expect to continue to rely on, collaborative arrangements with third parties who provide manufacturing and/or marketing support for some or all of our product candidates. Even if we find a potential partner, we may not be able to negotiate an arrangement on favourable terms or achieve results that we consider satisfactory. In addition, such arrangements can be terminated under certain conditions and do not assure a product’s success. We also face, and will continue to face, intense competition from other companies for collaboration arrangements with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Although we believe that our ownership of patents for some of our drug delivery products will limit direct competition with these products, we must also compete with established existing products and other promising technologies and other products and delivery alternatives that may be more effective than our products and proposed products. In addition, we may not be able to compete effectively with other commercially available products or drug delivery technologies. We have not received regulatory approval for any product that uses our drug delivery technologies. Our drug delivery technologies can be quite complex, with many different components. The development required to take a technology from its earliest stages to its incorporation in a product that is sold commercially can take many years and cost a substantial amount of money. Significant technical challenges are common as products incorporating our technologies progress through development, particularly in the first product candidate incorporating a new technology. Our RexistaTM product for an abuse-deterrent form of oxycodone is one such new technology. No product employing our abuse deterrent technology has received regulatory approval. In addition, any particular technology such as our abuse-deterrent technology may not perform in the same manner when used with different therapeutic agents, and therefore this technology may not prove to be as useful or valuable as originally thought, resulting in additional development work and expenditures. If our efforts do not repeatedly lead to successful development of product candidates, we may not be able to grow our pipeline or to enter into agreements with marketing and distribution partners or collaborators that are -10- willing to distribute or develop our product candidates. Delays or unanticipated increases in costs of development at any stage, or failure to solve a technical challenge, could adversely affect our operating results. If third-party manufacturers of our product ingredients or products fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our concerns, or if their performance is substandard, the commercialization of our products could be delayed or prevented, and this may result in higher costs or deprive us of potential product revenues. Although we manufacture clinical trial supplies in-house, we rely on third parties for the manufacturing of certain components and ingredients of our clinical trial materials and in particular, the active pharmaceutical ingredients. In addition, while we have the equipment and ability to manufacture drugs to a certain extent on a commercial scale, we may rely on third parties for commercial scale manufacturing. Our reliance on contract manufacturers in these respects will expose us to the following risks, any of which could delay or prevent the commercialization of our products, result in higher costs, or deprive us of potential product revenues: · Contract manufacturers can encounter difficulties in achieving volume production, quality control and quality assurance, or technology transfer, as well as shortages of qualified personnel. Accordingly, a manufacturer might not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities to meet our clinical trial needs or to commercialize our products. · Contract manufacturers are required to undergo a satisfactory cGMP inspection prior to regulatory approval and are obliged to operate in accordance with the cGMP regulations of the FDA regulations and those of other jurisdictions we may manufacture in or apply for approval for some of our products. These regulations govern manufacturing processes, stability testing, record keeping and quality standards. Any failure of these contract manufacturers to establish and follow cGMP or other similar applicable regulations and to document their adherence to such practices may lead to significant delays in the availability of material for clinical studies, may delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for our products or result in sanctions being imposed on us. · For some or all of our current product candidates and possibly for any future products, we may initially rely on a single or a limited number of contract manufacturers. Changing these or future manufacturers may be difficult and the number of potential manufacturers is limited. Changing manufacturers generally requires re-validation of the manufacturing processes and procedures in accordance with FDA and other applicable national cGMPs and may require prior regulatory approval. It may be difficult or impossible for us to quickly find replacement manufacturers on acceptable terms, if at all. Such re-validation may be costly and time-consuming and we could suffer important delays in advancing our product candidates in clinical trials or in supplying the commercial market with our products. · With respect to any of our products that we may market, our ability to reach full commercial scale manufacturing depends upon the ability of our own plant or a designated commercial scale contract manufacturer to be approved under such cGMP. Reaching full commercial scale has a direct impact on our overall costs of goods, which, in turn, directly affects our operating margins. Any delay in obtaining cGMP approval beyond the time we anticipate may have a negative impact on our operating margins and other financial results, as well as our ability to adequately supply the market with our product. · Our contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to produce, store and distribute our products successfully. · Our contract manufacturers may terminate or not renew our agreements based on their own priorities and such actions could be both costly and inconvenient for us. Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and by applicable agencies in other nations to ensure strict compliance with cGMP and other government regulations. While we may audit the performance of third-party contractors, we will not have complete control over our third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Failure by either our third-party manufacturers or by us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, -11- injunctions, civil penalties, failure of the government to grant review of submissions or market approval of drugs, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, product seizures or recalls, operating restrictions, facility closures and criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. Under our collaboration and marketing and distribution arrangements with third-party manufacturers, we may commit to supply these third parties with product. In the event that we are unable to fulfill such obligations as a result of a failure of our contract manufacturers, we may be in breach of our obligations under those arrangements. Risks related to our Industry Competition from generic drug manufacturers may reduce our expected royalties. Because part of our product development strategy involves the novel reformulation of existing drugs with active ingredients that are off-patent, our products are likely to face competition from generic versions of such drugs. Regulatory approval for generic drugs may be obtained without investing in costly and time-consuming clinical trials. Because of substantially reduced development costs, manufacturers of generic drugs are often able to charge much lower prices for their products than the original developer of a new product. If we face competition from manufacturers of generic drugs on products we may commercialize, such as our once-daily Rexista abuse-deterrent oxycodone product, the prices at which such products are sold and the revenues we expect to receive may be reduced. Market acceptance of our products will be limited if users of our products are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers. Government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement for products like ours, and our commercial success will depend in part on whether appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatments are obtained from government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations and managed care organizations. Even if we succeed in bringing any of our products to market, third-party payers may not provide reimbursement in whole or in part for their use. A trend in the United States healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. We expect recent changes in the Medicare program, such as were included in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, and increasing emphasis on managed care to continue to put pressure on pharmaceutical product pricing. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Some of our product candidates, such as our once-daily Rexista abuse-deterrent oxycodone product, are intended to replace or alter existing therapies or procedures. These third-party payers may conclude that our products are less safe, less effective or less economical than those existing therapies or procedures. Therefore, third-party payers may not approve our products for reimbursement. We may be required to make substantial pricing concessions in order to gain access to the formularies of large managed-care organizations. If third party payers do not approve our products for reimbursement or fail to reimburse them adequately, sales will suffer as some physicians or their patients may opt for a competing product that is approved for reimbursement or is adequately reimbursed. Even if third-party payers make reimbursement available, these payers’ reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability and our potential marketing and distribution partners’ ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. We are subject to significant costs and uncertainties related to compliance with the extensive regulations that govern the manufacturing, labelling, distribution, and promotion of pharmaceutical products as well as environmental, safety and health regulations. Governmental authorities in the United States and Canada regulate the research and development, testing and safety of pharmaceutical products. The regulations applicable to our existing and future products may change. Regulations require extensive clinical trials and other testing and government review and final approval before we can market our products. The cost of complying with government regulation can be substantial and may exceed our available resources, causing delay or cancellation of our product introductions. -12- Some abbreviated application procedures for controlled-release drugs and other products, including those related to our ANDA filings, are or may become the subject of petitions filed by brand-name drug manufacturers seeking changes from the FDA in the approval requirements for particular drugs as part of their strategy to thwart generic competition. We cannot predict whether the FDA will make any changes to requirements applicable to our ANDA application as a result of these petitions, or the effect that any changes may have on us. Any changes in FDA regulations may make it more difficult for us to file ANDAs or obtain approval of our ANDAs and generate revenues and thus may materially harm our business and financial results. Any failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approvals could make it so that we are unable to market any products we develop and therefore adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Even if approved in the United States or Canada, regulatory authorities in other countries must approve a product prior to the commencement of marketing the product in those countries. The time required to obtain any such approval may be longer than in the United States or Canada, which could cause the introduction of our products in other countries to be cancelled or materially delayed. The manufacturing, distribution, processing, formulation, packaging, labelling and advertising of our products are subject to extensive regulation by federal agencies, including in the United States, the FDA, Drug Enforcement Administration, Federal Trade Commission, Consumer Product Safety Commission and Environmental Protection Agency, among others. We are also subject to state and local laws, regulations and agencies. Compliance with these regulations requires substantial expenditures of time, money and effort in such areas as production and quality control to ensure full technical compliance. Failure to comply with FDA and other governmental regulations can result in fines, disgorgement, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of NDAs or ANDAs, enforcement actions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. We cannot accurately predict the outcome or timing of future expenditures that we may be required to make in order to comply with the federal, state, and local environmental, safety, and health laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations and facilities. Our products involve the use of hazardous materials, and as a result we are exposed to potential liability claims and to costs associated with complying with laws regulating hazardous waste. Our research and development activities involve the use of hazardous materials, including chemicals, and are subject to Canadian federal, provincial and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products. It is possible that accidental injury or contamination from these materials may occur. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages, which could exceed our available financial resources. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations. We may incur substantial costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. In addition, we may encounter currently unknown environmental problems or conditions. We are subject to extensive federal, state, provincial and local environmental laws and regulations which govern the discharge, emission, storage, handling and disposal of a variety of substances that may be used in, or result from, our operations. Environmental laws or regulations (or their interpretation) may become more stringent in the future. We are subject to currency rate fluctuations. A large majority of our expenses are payable in Canadian dollars and our financial statements are reported in U.S. dollars. There may be instances where we have net foreign currency exposure. Any fluctuations in exchange rates will impact our reported financial results. We are subject to product liability costs for which we may not have or be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage. -13- The testing and marketing of pharmaceutical products entails an inherent risk of product liability. Liability exposures for pharmaceutical products can be extremely large and pose a material risk. In some instances, we may be or may become contractually obligated to indemnify third parties for such liability. Our business may be materially and adversely affected by a successful product liability claim or claims in excess of any insurance coverage that we may have. While we currently have, and in some cases are contractually obligated to maintain, insurance for our business, property and our products as they are administered in bioavailability/bioequivalence studies, first- and third-party insurance is increasingly costly and narrow in scope. Therefore, we may be unable to meet such contractual obligations or we may be required to assume more risk in the future. If we are subject to third-party claims or suffer a loss or damage in excess of our insurance coverage, we may be required to bear that risk in excess of our insurance limits. Furthermore, any first or third-party claims made on our insurance policy may impact our ability to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at reasonable costs or at all in the future. We have limited sales, marketing and distribution experience. We have limited experience in the sales, marketing, and distribution of pharmaceutical products. There can be no assurance that, if required, we would be able to establish sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with our collaborators, licensees, or others to perform such activities or that such efforts would be successful. If we fail to establish successful marketing and sales capabilities or to make arrangements with third parties, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Our significant shareholders will have the ability to substantially influence certain corporate actions. Our principal shareholder, Odidi Holdings Inc., is a privately-held company controlled by Drs. Amina and Isa Odidi, and owned approximately 54.99% of our issued and outstanding shares as at November 30, 2010. Subsequent to the $12,000,000 financing which closed on February 1, 2011, Odidi Holdings Inc. continued to be our largest shareholder, owning approximately 38.03% of our issued and outstanding shares. The transaction had no material effect on control of the Company since no new control person (within the meaning of securities legislation) was created as a result of the transaction. As a result, the principal shareholder will have substantial influence over matters submitted to our shareholders for approval that are not subject to a class vote or special resolution requiring the approval of 66⅔% of the votes cast by holders of our shares, in person or by proxy. The principal shareholder will have the ability to substantially influence matters submitted to our shareholders requiring approval of the majority of holders of our shares including the election and removal of directors. Our operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with international business. We may be subject to certain risks that are inherent in an international business. These include: · varying regulatory restrictions on sales of our products to certain markets and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · tariffs, customs, duties, and other trade barriers; · difficulties in managing foreign operations and foreign distribution partners; · longer payment cycles and problems in collecting accounts receivable; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · political risks; · foreign exchange controls that may restrict or prohibit repatriation of funds; · export and import restrictions or prohibitions, and delays from customs brokers or government agencies; · seasonal reductions in business activity in certain parts of the world; and · potentially adverse tax consequences. -14- Depending on the countries involved, any or all of the foregoing factors could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our effective tax rate may vary. Various internal and external factors may have favourable or unfavourable effects on our future effective tax rate. These factors include but are not limited to changes in tax laws, regulations and/or rates, changing interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations, future levels of research and development spending, the availability of tax credit programs for the reimbursement of all or a significant proportion of research and development spending, and changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings. Our corporate structure was designed in part to allow us to qualify for certain substantial tax credits in Canada. In particular, at present, we take advantage of favourable tax treatment in Canada for certain research work pertaining to our drug delivery technologies and drug products in research stages. If those Canadian tax laws as pertain to such research were substantially negatively altered or eliminated, or if our applications for tax credits are refused, it would have a material adverse effect upon our financial results. Risks related to our Common Shares Our share price has been highly volatile and our shares could suffer a decline in value. The trading price of our common shares has been highly volatile and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: · sales or other issuances of our common shares, including any sales made in connection with future financings; · announcements regarding new or existing corporate partnerships; · announcements by us of significant acquisitions, joint ventures, or capital commitments; · actual or anticipated period-to-period fluctuations in financial results; · clinical and regulatory development regarding our product candidates; · litigation or threat of litigation; · failure to achieve, or changes in, financial estimates by securities analysts; · comments or opinions by securities analysts or members of the medical community; · announcements regarding new or existing products or services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; · conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries; · additions or departures of key personnel or directors; · economic and other external factors or disasters or crises; · limited daily trading volume; and · developments regarding our patents or other intellectual property or that of our competitors. Our shares have in the past experienced, and may continue to experience, significant volume and price volatility. This volatility could reduce the future market price of our shares, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, both the volume and the trading price of our shares could change significantly over short periods of time in response to, among other things, actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results, announcements by us, and/or changes in national or regional economic conditions, making it more difficult for our shares to be sold at a favourable price or at all. In addition, the stock market in general and the market for drug development companies have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, there has been significant volatility in the market prices of securities of -15- pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities, and the diversion of management’s attention and resources. We may not achieve projected development goals in the time frames announced and expected. From time to time, we may set goals for and make public statements regarding timing of the accomplishment of objectives material to our success. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to a number of factors such as delays or failures in clinical trials or bioequivalence studies, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process, and delays in achieving product development, manufacturing, or marketing milestones necessary to commercialize products. There can be no assurance that any clinical trials or bioequivalence studies that are necessary for regulatory approvals will be completed, that we will make regulatory submissions, or receive regulatory approvals. If we fail to achieve one or more milestones, the price of our shares could decline. No history or foreseeable prospect of cash dividends. We have not paid any cash dividends on our shares and do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain future earnings, if any, for reinvestment in the development and expansion of our business. Dividend payments in the future may also be limited by other loan agreements or covenants contained in other securities which we may issue. Any future determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital and legal requirements and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. There may not be an active, liquid market for our common shares. There is no guarantee that an active trading market for our common shares will be maintained on the NASDAQ Capital Market (“NASDAQ”), the Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSX”) or elsewhere. Investors may not be able to sell their shares quickly or at the latest market price if trading in our common shares is not active or if our shares cease to trade on a recognized securities exchange. Future issuances of our shares, including pursuant to warrants outstanding, could adversely affect the trading price of our common shares and could result in substantial dilution to shareholders. We may need to issue substantial amounts of our common shares in the future. To the extent that the market price of our common shares declines, we will need to issue an increasing number of common shares per dollar of equity investment. In addition to our common shares issuable in connection with the exercise of our outstanding warrants, our employees, and directors will hold rights to acquire substantial amounts of our common shares. In order to obtain future financing if required, it is likely that we will issue additional common shares or financial instruments that are exchangeable for or convertible into common shares. In addition, warrants to purchase 4,896,000 common shares representing approximately a 24% interest in the Company, after their exercise, were issued in connection with the February 2011 private placement, most of which are exercisable at $2.50 per share, could result in substantial dilution of existing shareholders and cause our share price to decline. Also, in order to provide incentives to employees and induce prospective employees and consultants to work for us, we may offer and issue options to purchase common shares and/or rights exchangeable for or convertible into common shares. Future issuances of shares could result in substantial dilution to shareholders. Capital raising activities, if available, and dilution associated with such activities could cause our share price to decline. In addition, the existence of common share purchase warrants may encourage short selling by market participants. Also, in order to provide incentives to current employees and directors and induce prospective employees and consultants to work for us, we have granted options and deferred share units (“DSU”), and intend to offer and issue options and DSUs to purchase common shares and/or rights exchangeable for or convertible into common shares. Future issuances of shares could result in substantial dilution to all our shareholders. Capital raising activities and dilution associated with such activities could cause our share price to decline. We may in the future issue preference shares which could adversely affect the rights of holders of our common shares and the value of such shares. -16- Our board of directors has the ability to authorize the issue of an unlimited number of preference shares in series, and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the holders of our common shares. Although we have no preference shares issued and outstanding, preference shares issued in the future could adversely affect the rights and interests of holders of our common shares. If there are substantial sales of our common shares, the market price of our common shares could decline. Sales of substantial numbers of our common shares could cause a decline in the market price of our common shares. Any sales by existing shareholders or holders of options or warrants may have an adverse effect on our ability to raise capital and may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Our common shares may not continue to be listed on the TSX. Our failure to maintain the applicable continued listing requirements of the TSX could result in our common shares being delisted from the TSX. The TSX will normally consider the delisting of securities if, in the opinion of the exchange, it appears that the public distribution, price, or trading activity of the securities has been so reduced as to make further dealings in the securities on TSX unwarranted. If the market price of our common shares declines below applicable exchange minimums or we are unable to maintain other listing requirements, the TSX could commence a remedial review process that could lead to the delisting of our common shares from the TSX. Further, if we complete a sale, merger, acquisition, or alternative strategic transaction, we will have to consider if the continued listing of our common shares on the TSX is appropriate, or possible. If our common shares are no longer listed on the TSX, they may be eligible for listing on the TSX Venture Exchange. In the event that we are not able to maintain a listing for our common shares on the TSX or the TSX Venture Exchange, it may be extremely difficult or impossible for shareholders to sell their common shares in Canada. Moreover, if we are delisted and obtain a substitute listing for our common shares on the TSX Venture Exchange, our common shares will likely have less liquidity and more price volatility than experienced on the TSX. Shareholders may not be able to sell their common shares on any such substitute exchange in the quantities, at the times, or at the prices that could potentially be available on a more liquid trading market. As a result of these factors, if our common shares are delisted from TSX, the price of our common shares is likely to decline. In addition, a decline in the price of our common shares will impair our ability to obtain financing in the future. Our common shares may not continue to be listed on NASDAQ. Our failure to meet the applicable quantitative and/or qualitative listing maintenance requirements of NASDAQ could result in our common shares being delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. For continued listing, NASDAQ requires, among other things, that listed securities maintain a minimum bid price of not less than $1.00 per share (the “Minimum Bid Price Rule”). If our common shares are no longer listed on NASDAQ, whether as a result of a failure to meet the Minimum Bid Price Rule or otherwise, our common shares may be eligible for trading on an over-the-counter market in the United States. In the event that we do not obtain a listing on another U.S. stock exchange or quotation service for our common shares, it may be extremely difficult or impossible for shareholders to sell their common shares in the United States. Moreover, if our common shares cease to be listed on NASDAQ and we obtain a substitute listing for our common shares in the United States, it will likely be on a market with less liquidity, and therefore potentially more price volatility, than the NASDAQ Capital Market. Shareholders may not be able to sell their common shares on any such substitute U.S. market in the quantities, at the times, or at the prices that could potentially be available on a more liquid trading market. As a result of these factors, if our common shares are delisted from NASDAQ, the price of our common shares is likely to decline. In addition, a decline in the price of our common shares will impair our ability to obtain financing in the future. Our shares are listed for trading in the United States and may become subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules. -17- Transactions in securities that are traded in the United States that are not traded on NASDAQ or on other securities exchange by companies, with net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and a market price per share of less than $5.00, may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”). Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional investors: · must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; · receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; · provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and · obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. As a result of these requirements, if our common shares are at such time subject to the “penny stock” rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in these shares in the United States may be significantly limited. Accordingly, the market price of the shares may be depressed, and investors may find it more difficult to sell the shares. As a foreign private issuer in the United States, we are subject to different U.S. securities laws and rules than a domestic U.S. issuer. As a foreign private issuer under U.S. securities laws we are not required to comply with all the periodic disclosure requirements of the Exchange Act applicable to domestic United States companies and therefore the publicly available information about us may be different or more limited than if we were a United States domestic issuer. In addition, our officers, directors, and principal shareholders are exempt from the “real time” reporting and ‘‘short swing’’ profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder. Although under Canadian rules, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are generally required to file on SEDI (www.sedi.ca) reports of transactions involving our common shares within five calendar days of such transaction, our shareholders may not know when our officers, directors and principal shareholders purchase or sell our common shares as timely as they would if we were a United States domestic issuer. We are exposed to risks if we are unable to comply with laws and future changes to laws affecting public companies, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and also to increased costs associated with complying with such laws. Any future changes to the laws and regulations affecting public companies, as well as compliance with existing provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (‘‘SOX’’) in the United States and the other applicable Canadian securities laws and regulations and related rules and policies, may cause us to incur increased costs based on the implications of new rules and responses to new requirements. Delays, or a failure to comply with the new laws, rules and regulations could result in enforcement actions, the assessment of other penalties and civil suits. New laws and regulations may make it more expensive for us under indemnities provided by the Company to our officers and directors and may make it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including liability insurance for directors and officers. As such, we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, or as executive officers. We may be required to hire additional personnel and utilize additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services, all of which could cause our general and administrative costs to increase beyond what we currently have planned. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. The Company is required to review and report annually on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting in accordance with SOX section 404 and Multilateral Instrument 52-109 – Certification of -18- Disclosure in Issuer’s Annual and Interim Filings of the Canadian Securities Administrators. The results of this review are reported in this Form 20-F Annual Report and in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis. Management’s review is designed to provide reasonable assurance, not absolute assurance, that all material weaknesses existing within the Company’s internal controls are identified. Material weaknesses represent deficiencies existing in the Company’s internal controls that may not prevent or detect a misstatement occurring which could have a material adverse effect on the quarterly or annual financial statements of the Company. In addition, management cannot ensure that the remedial actions being taken by the Company to address any material weaknesses identified will be successful, nor can management ensure that no further material weaknesses will be identified within its internal controls over financial reporting in future years. If the Company fails to maintain effective internal controls over its financial reporting, there is the possibility of errors or omissions occurring or misrepresentations in the Company’s disclosures which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, its financial statements, and the value of the Company’s common shares. We may be classified as a “passive foreign investment company” or “PFIC” for U.S. income tax purposes, which could have significant and adverse tax consequences to U.S. investors. The possible classification of our company as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes could have significant and adverse tax consequences for U.S. holders of our common shares. It may be possible for U.S. holders of common shares to mitigate certain of these consequences by making an election to treat us as a “qualified electing fund” or “QEF” under Section 1295 of the Code (a “QEF Election”) or a mark-to-market election under Section 1296 of the Code (a “Mark-to-Market Election”). A non-U.S. corporation generally will be a PFIC if, for a taxable year (a) 75% or more of the gross income of such corporation for such taxable year consists of specified types of passive income or (b) on average, 50% or more of the assets held by such corporation either produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income, based on the fair market value of such assets (or on the adjusted tax basis of such assets, if such non-U.S. corporation is not publicly traded and either is a “controlled foreign corporation” under Section 957(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), or makes an election to determine whether it is a PFIC based on the adjusted bases of the assets). The determination of whether we are, or will be, a PFIC for a taxable year depends, in part, on the application of complex U.S. federal income tax rules, which are subject to various interpretations. In addition, whether we will be a PFIC for the current taxable year and each subsequent taxable year depends on our assets and income over the course of each such taxable year and, as a result, cannot be predicted with certainty. Absent one of the elections described above, if we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. holder holds our ordinary shares, we generally will continue to be treated as a PFIC regardless of whether we cease to meet the PFIC tests in one or more subsequent years. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that we will not constitute a PFIC in the current (or any future) tax year or that the IRS will not challenge any determination made by us concerning our PFIC status. If we are a PFIC, the U.S. federal income tax consequences to a U.S. holder of the ownership and disposition of our shares will depend on whether such U.S. holder makes a QEF or Mark-to-Market Election. Under recently passed legislation, unless otherwise provided by the Internal Revenue Service, a U.S. holder of our shares during any year in which we are a PFIC must file an informational return annually to report its ownership interest in the PFIC. It may be difficult to obtain and enforce judgments against us because of our Canadian residency. We are governed by the laws of Canada. Most of our directors and officers are residents of Canada or other jurisdictions outside of the United States and all or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of such persons may be located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for shareholders to effect service of process upon us or such persons within the United States or to realize in the United States on judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the United States. In addition, there is doubt as to the enforceability in Canada of liabilities predicated solely upon U.S. -19- federal securities law against us, our directors, controlling persons and officers who are not residents of the United States, in original actions or in actions for enforcements of judgments of U.S. courts. 