Item 1A. Risk Factors.The occurrence of any of the risks discussed herein could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders.Our growth will partially depend upon our ability to successfully acquire future properties, and we may be unable to enter into and consummate property acquisitions on advantageous terms or our property acquisitions may not perform as we expect.We compete with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities particularly for properties located in New York City. The competition may significantly increase the price we pay and reduce the returns that we earn. Our potential acquisition targets may find our competitors to be more attractive because they may have greater resources, may be willing to pay more for the properties or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. In particular, larger REITs may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. Because of an increased interest in single-property acquisitions among tax-motivated individual purchasers, we may pay higher prices if we purchase single properties in comparison with portfolio acquisitions. In addition:•we may acquire properties that are not accretive and we may not successfully manage and lease those properties to meet our expectations;•we may be unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, or obtain the necessary debt or equity financing to consummate an acquisition or, if obtainable, financing may not be on satisfactory terms;•we may need to spend more than budgeted amounts to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties; •agreements for the acquisition of properties are typically subject to customary conditions to closing, including satisfactory completion of due diligence investigations, and we may spend significant time and money on potential acquisitions that we do not consummate;•the process of acquiring or pursuing the acquisition of a new property may divert the attention of our management team from our existing business operations;•we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations;•market conditions may result in future vacancies and lower-than expected rental rates; and•we may acquire properties without recourse, or with only limited recourse, for liabilities, whether known or unknown, such as cleanup of environmental contamination, claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the former owners of the properties and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties.4Table of ContentsWe rely on our Advisor to acquire properties on our behalf. Because the management personnel of our Advisor are also engaged in the process of acquiring properties for other entities formed and managed by affiliates of our Advisor, we could suffer delays in locating suitable investments or may miss out on opportunities. If our Advisor is unable to obtain further suitable investments, we will not be able to continue to increase our asset base.We may be unable to renew leases or re-lease space as leases expire.If tenants do not renew their leases upon expiration, we may be unable to re-lease the vacated space. Even if the tenants do re-lease the lease or we are able to re-lease to a new tenant, the terms and conditions of the new lease may not be as favorable as the terms and conditions of the expired lease.In addition, one or more of our properties may incur a vacancy either by the continued default of a tenant under its lease or the expiration of one of our leases. The resale value of a property could be diminished because the market value of a particular property will depend principally upon the value of the cash flow generated from the property which in the case of vacancies, will be reduced.Our properties may be subject to impairment charges.We periodically evaluate our real estate investments for impairment indicators. The judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based on factors such as market conditions, tenant performance and legal structure. For example, the early termination of, or default under, a lease by a tenant may lead to an impairment charge. If we determine that an impairment has occurred, we would be required to make a downward adjustment to the net carrying value of the property. Impairment charges also indicate a potential permanent adverse change in the fundamental operating characteristics of the impaired property. There is no assurance that these adverse changes will be reversed in the future and the decline in the impaired property’s value could be permanent.Our real estate investments are relatively illiquid, and therefore we may not be able to dispose of properties when appropriate or on favorable terms. Investments in real properties are relatively illiquid. We may not be able to quickly alter our portfolio or generate capital by selling properties. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. If we need or desire to sell a property or properties, we cannot predict whether we will be able to do so at a price or on the terms and conditions acceptable to us. We cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. Further, we may be required to invest monies to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct these defects or to make these improvements. Moreover, in acquiring a property, we may agree to restrictions that prohibit the sale of that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These provisions would restrict our ability to sell a property.In addition, applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") impose restrictions on the ability of a REIT to dispose of properties that are not applicable to other types of real estate companies. Thus, we may be unable to realize our investment objectives by selling or otherwise disposing of or refinancing a property at attractive prices within any given period of time or may otherwise be unable to complete any exit strategy. There is no public trading market for our shares and there may never be one.Our shares are not listed on a national securities exchange and there currently is no established trading market for our shares and no assurance that one will develop. Even though we intend to file an application to list our shares on a national securities exchange, there is no assurance that our shares will in fact be listed or of the price at which the shares would trade or the volume that would develop. Unless our shares are listed, purchasers in so-called secondary market transactions must satisfy applicable suitability and minimum purchase standards and the sale must not violate state securities laws. Those requirements may further limit the ability of stockholders to sell shares.5Table of ContentsWe or our Advisor may be unable to obtain key personnel.Our success depends to a significant degree upon the contributions of certain of our executive officers and other key personnel of our Advisor, including Nicholas S. Schorsch and Edward M. Weil, Jr. We cannot guarantee that all, or any particular one of these key personnel, will remain affiliated with our Advisor or become our employees if we become self-managed by internalizing the functions performed by our Advisor. We do not separately maintain key person life insurance on Messrs. Schorsch and Weil, or any other person. Failure to retain these key employees or the Advisor's failure to hire and retain highly skilled managerial operational and marketing personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objectives, lessen or eliminate the benefits of becoming self-managed and could result could result in us incurring excess costs and suffering deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting. Further, because these persons have competing demands on their time and resources, they may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time between our business and these other activities.We may be unable to pay or maintain distributions from cash available from operations or increase distributions over time.There are many factors that can affect the availability and timing of cash distributions to stockholders. Distributions are based principally on cash available from our operations, but we may be required to borrow funds or sell assets to fund distributions. Actual cash available for distributions may vary substantially from estimates. There is no assurance that we will be able to pay or maintain our current level of distributions or that distributions will increase over time. Distributions funded from anything other than cash flow from operations reduces the amount of capital available to invest in properties and other permitted investments. Our operating results are affected by economic and regulatory changes that have an adverse impact on the real estate market in general. These changes may impact our profitability and ability to realize growth in the value of our real estate properties.Our operating results are subject to risks generally incident to the ownership of real estate, including:•changes in general economic or local conditions;•changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing properties in an area;•changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds that may render the sale of a property difficult or unattractive;•increases in operating expenses;•vacancies and inability to lease or sublease space;•changes in tax, real estate, environmental and zoning laws; and•periods of high interest rates and tight money supply.Tenant credit concentrations make us more susceptible to adverse events with respect to those tenants.As of December 31, 2013, Cravath, Swaine & Moore, LLP, Nomura Holdings America, Inc., Macy's, Inc., RentPath, Inc., and The Segal Company (Eastern States), Inc. represented us 18.2%, 12.4%, 7.4%, 6.2% and 5.8%, respectively, of rental income on a straight-line basis. The financial failure or an adverse change in the tenant's financial condition or credit rating of any of these tenants would, therefore, likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition and the value of our investments. If a tenant declares bankruptcy, we may be unable to collect balances due under relevant leases, which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to pay distributions.Any of our tenants, or any guarantor of a tenant's lease obligations, could be subject to a bankruptcy proceeding pursuant to Title 11 of the bankruptcy laws of the United States. A bankruptcy filing by one of our tenants or any guarantor of a tenant's lease obligations would bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from these entities or their properties, unless we receive an enabling order from the bankruptcy court. There is no assurance the tenant or its trustee would agree to assume the lease. If a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have a general unsecured claim for damages and it is unlikely we would receive any payments from the tenant.A tenant or lease guarantor bankruptcy could delay efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude full collection of these sums. A tenant or lease guarantor bankruptcy could cause a decrease or cessation of rental payments that would mean a reduction in our cash flow and the amount available to pay distributions. 6Table of ContentsIf a sale-leaseback transaction is re-characterized in a tenant's bankruptcy proceeding, our financial condition and ability to make distributions to you could be adversely affected.We may enter into sale-leaseback transactions, whereby we would purchase a property and then lease the same property back to the person from whom we purchased it. In the event of the bankruptcy of a tenant, a transaction structured as a sale- leaseback may be re-characterized as either a financing or a joint venture, either of which outcomes could adversely affect our business. If the sale-leaseback were re-characterized as a financing, we might not be considered the owner of the property, and as a result would have the status of a creditor in relation to the tenant. In that event, we would no longer have the right to sell or encumber our ownership interest in the property. Instead, we would have a claim against the tenant for the amounts owed under the lease, with the claim arguably secured by the property. The tenant/debtor might have the ability to propose a plan restructuring the term, interest rate and amortization schedule of its outstanding balance. If confirmed by the bankruptcy court, we could be bound by the new terms, and prevented from foreclosing our lien on the property. If the sale-leaseback were re- characterized as a joint venture, our lessee and we could be treated as co-venturers with regard to the property. As a result, we could be held liable, under some circumstances, for debts incurred by the lessee relating to the property. We may suffer losses that are not covered by insurance or that are in excess of insurance coverage, we could lose invested capital and anticipated profits.Our general liability coverage, property insurance coverage and umbrella liability coverage on all our properties may not be adequate to insure against liability claims and provide for the costs of defense Similarly, we may not have adequate coverage against the risk of direct physical damage or to reimburse us on a replacement cost basis for costs incurred to repair or rebuild each property. There are also certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses due to wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution or environmental matters, which are either uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be insured subject to limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. Also, insuring against potential terrorist acts could sharply increase the premiums we pay for coverage against property and casualty claims. Additionally, mortgage lenders in some cases have begun to insist that commercial property owners purchase specific coverage against terrorism as a condition for providing mortgage loans. These insurance policies may or may not be available, or available at reasonable cost. In these instances, we may be required to provide other financial support, either through financial assurances or self-insurance, to cover potential losses. If we suffer a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement value of our lost investment. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. Costs of complying with governmental laws and regulations, including those relating to environmental matters, may adversely affect our income and the cash available for any distributions.All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. These laws and regulations generally govern wastewater discharges, air emissions, the operation and removal of underground and above-ground storage tanks, the use, storage, treatment, transportation and disposal of solid and hazardous materials, and the remediation of contamination associated with disposals. Environmental laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability on tenants, owners or operators for the costs to investigate or remediate contaminated properties, regardless of fault or whether the acts causing the contamination were legal. This liability could be substantial. In addition, the presence of hazardous substances, or the failure to properly remediate these substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell, rent or pledge such property as collateral for future borrowings.Some of these laws and regulations have been amended so as to require compliance with new or more stringent standards as of future dates. Compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations or stricter interpretation of existing laws may require material expenditures by us. Future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material environmental liability. Additionally, our tenants' operations, the existing condition of land when we buy it, operations in the vicinity of our properties, such as the presence of underground storage tanks, or activities of unrelated third parties, may affect our properties. In addition, there are various local, state and federal fire, health, life-safety and similar regulations with which we may be required to comply, and that may subject us to liability in the form of fines or damages for noncompliance. State and federal laws in this are constantly evolving, and we may be affected by such changes and be required to comply with new laws, including obtaining environmental assessments of most properties that we acquire; however, we will not obtain an independent third-party environmental assessment for every property we acquire. In addition, any such assessment that we do obtain may not reveal all environmental liabilities or that a prior owner of a property did not create a material environmental condition not known to us. We may be required to spend substantial sums defending against claims of liability, of compliance with environmental regulatory requirements, of remediating any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury claims.7Table of ContentsJoint venture investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on the financial condition of co-venturers and disputes between us and our co-venturers.We may enter into other partnerships and co-ownership arrangements (including preferred equity investments). We may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding such joint ventures. Investments in joint ventures may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt or fail to fund their required capital contributions. Co-venturers may have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. These investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor the co-venturer would have full control over the joint venture. Disputes between us and co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, actions by or disputes with co-venturers might result in subjecting properties owned by the joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our co-venturers.Potential changes in U.S. accounting standards regarding operating leases may make the leasing of our properties less attractive to our potential tenants, which could reduce overall demand for our leasing services.Under current authoritative accounting guidance for leases, a lease is classified by a tenant as a capital lease if the significant risks and rewards of ownership are considered to reside with the tenant. Under capital lease accounting for a tenant, both the leased asset and liability are reflected on their balance sheet. If the lease does not meet any of the criteria for a capital lease, the lease is considered an operating lease by the tenant, and the obligation does not appear on the tenant's balance sheet; rather, the contractual future minimum payment obligations are only disclosed in the footnotes thereto. The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") and the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB") conducted a joint project to re-evaluate lease accounting and have jointly released exposure drafts of a proposed accounting model that would significantly change lease accounting. Changes to the accounting guidance could affect both our accounting for leases as well as that of our current and potential tenants. These changes may affect how the real estate leasing business is conducted. For example, if the accounting standards regarding the financial statement classification of operating leases are revised, then companies may be less willing to enter into leases in general or desire to enter into leases with shorter terms because the apparent benefits to their balance sheets could be reduced or eliminated. This in turn could make it more difficult for us to enter into leases on terms we find favorable.Our costs associated with complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act may affect cash available for distributions.Our properties will be subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the "Disabilities Act"). Under the Disabilities Act, all places of public accommodation are required to comply with federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. The Disabilities Act has separate compliance requirements for "public accommodations" and "commercial facilities" that generally require that buildings and services, including restaurants and retail stores, be made accessible and available to people with disabilities. The Disabilities Act's requirements could require removal of access barriers and could result in the imposition of injunctive relief, monetary penalties, or, in some cases, an award of damages. We cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire properties in compliance with the Disabilities Act or allocate the burden on the seller or other third party, such as a tenant, to ensure compliance with the Disabilities Act. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire properties or allocate responsibilities in this manner. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. Any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. We may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions.The occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in our cybersecurity, could negatively impact our business by causing a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of our confidential information, and/or damage to our business relationships, all of which could negatively impact our financial results.A cyber incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of our information resources. More specifically, a cyber incident is an intentional attack or an unintentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data, or steal confidential information. As our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our systems, both internal and those we have outsourced. Our three primary risks that could directly result from the occurrence of a cyber incident include operational interruption, damage to our relationship with our tenants, and private data exposure. We have implemented processes, procedures and controls to help mitigate these risks, but these measures, as well as our increased awareness of a risk of a cyber incident, do not guarantee that our financial results will not be negatively impacted by such an incident.8Table of ContentsRisks Associated with Real Estate-Related Debt and Other InvestmentsAny real estate debt security that we originate or purchase is subject to the risks of delinquency and foreclosure.We may originate and purchase real estate debt securities, which are subject to numerous risks including delinquency and foreclosure and risks of loss. Typically, we will not have recourse to the personal assets of our borrowers. The ability of a borrower to repay a real estate debt security secured by an income-producing property depends primarily upon the successful operation of the property, rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. We bear the risks of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the real estate debt security, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations and limit amounts available for distribution to you. In the event of the bankruptcy of a borrower, the real estate debt security to that borrower will be deemed to be collateralized only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the real estate debt security will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a real estate debt security can be an expensive and lengthy process that could have a substantial negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed real estate debt security. We also may be forced to foreclose on certain properties, be unable to sell these properties and be forced to incur substantial expenses to improve operations at the property.In addition, the value of mortgage loan investments is impacted by changes in the value of underlying collateral (if any), interest rates, volatility and prepayment rates, among other things. For example:•interest rate increases will reduce the amount of payments leaving us with a debt security generating less than market yields and reducing the value of our real estate debt;•prepayment rates may increase if interest rates decline causing us to reinvest the proceeds in potentially lower yielding investments;•decreases in the collateral for a non-recourse mortgage loan will likely reduce the value of the investment even if the borrower is current on payments;•mezzanine loans investments may be even more volatile because, among other things, the senior lender may be able to exercise remedies that protect the senior lenders but that result in us losing our investment.Any hedging strategies we utilize may not be successful in mitigating our risks.We may enter into hedging transactions to manage risk of interest rate changes, price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets. To the extent that we use derivative financial instruments in connection with these risks, we will be exposed to credit, basis and legal enforceability risks. Derivative financial instruments may include interest rate swap contracts, interest rate cap or floor contracts, futures or forward contracts, options or repurchase agreements. In this context, credit risk is the failure of the counterparty to perform under the terms of the derivative contract. If the fair value of a derivative contract is positive, the counterparty owes us, which creates credit risk for us. Basis risk occurs when the index upon which the contract is based is more or less variable than the index upon which the hedged asset or liability is based, thereby making the hedge less effective. Finally, legal enforceability risks encompass general contractual risks, including the risk that the counterparty will breach the terms of, or fail to perform its obligations under, the derivative contract. We may not be able to manage these risks effectively.We may invest in collateralized mortgage-backed securities, which may increase our exposure to credit and interest rate risk and the risks of the securitization process. We may invest in CMBS, which may increase our exposure to credit and interest rate risk. We have not adopted, and do not expect to adopt, any formal policies or procedures designed to manage risks associated with our investments in CMBS. In this context, credit risk is the risk that borrowers will default on the mortgages underlying the CMBS. Interest rate risk occurs as prevailing market interest rates change relative to the current yield on the CMBS. For example, when interest rates fall, borrowers are more likely to prepay their existing mortgages to take advantage of the lower cost of financing. As prepayments occur, principal is returned to the holders of the CMBS sooner than expected, thereby lowering the effective yield on the investment. On the other hand, when interest rates rise, borrowers are more likely to maintain their existing mortgages. As a result, prepayments decrease, thereby extending the average maturity of the mortgages underlying the CMBS. CMBS are also subject to several risks created through the securitization process. Subordinate CMBS are paid interest only to the extent that there are funds available to make payments. To the extent the collateral pool includes delinquent loans, there is a risk that the interest payment on subordinate CMBS will not be fully paid. Subordinate CMBS are also subject to greater credit risk than those CMBS that are more highly rated. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively, our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to you will be adversely affected. 9Table of Contents Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest We are subject to conflicts of interest arising out of our relationships with our Advisor and its affiliates, including the material conflicts discussed below. Our Advisor faces conflicts of interest relating to the purchase and leasing of properties, and these conflicts may not be resolved in our favor, which could adversely affect our investment opportunities.Affiliates of our Advisor have sponsored and may sponsor one or more other real estate investment programs in the future. We may buy properties at the same time as one or more of the other American Realty Capital-sponsored programs managed by officers and key personnel of our Advisor. There is a risk that our Advisor will choose a property that provides lower returns to us than a property purchased by another American Realty Capital-sponsored program. We cannot be sure that officers and key personnel acting on behalf of our Advisor and on behalf of managers of other American Realty Capital-sponsored programs will act in our best interests when deciding whether to allocate any particular property to us. In addition, we may acquire properties in geographic areas where other American Realty Capital-sponsored programs own properties. In such a case, a conflict could arise in the acquisition or leasing of properties if we and another American Realty Capital-sponsored program were to compete for the same properties or tenants in negotiating leases, or a conflict could arise in connection with the resale of properties if we and another American Realty Capital-sponsored program were to attempt to sell similar properties at the same time. Conflicts of interest also may exist at such time as we or our affiliates managing properties on our behalf seek to employ developers, contractors or building managers, as well as under other circumstances.Also, we may acquire properties from, or sell properties to, other American Realty Capital-sponsored programs. If one of the other American Realty Capital-sponsored programs attracts a tenant that we are competing for, we could suffer a loss of revenue due to delays in locating another suitable tenant. Similar conflicts of interest may apply if our Advisor determines to make or purchase mortgage, bridge or mezzanine loans or participations therein on our behalf, since other American Realty Capital-sponsored programs may be competing with us for these investments.The management of multiple REITs, especially REITs in the development stage, by our executive officers and officers of our Advisor may significantly reduce the amount of time our executive officers and officers of our Advisor are able to spend on activities related to us and may cause other conflicts of interest, which may cause our operating results to suffer. Our executive officers and officers of our Advisor are part of the senior management or are key personnel of the other American Realty Capital-sponsored REITs and their advisors. Five of the American Realty Capital-sponsored REITs, including ARC Realty Finance Trust, Inc., American Realty Capital Healthcare Trust II, Inc., American Realty Capital Trust V, Inc., Phillips Edison - ARC Grocery Center REIT II, Inc. and American Realty Capital Hospitality Trust, Inc. have registration statements that became effective in the past 18 months and currently are offering securities and none of the American Realty Capital-sponsored REITs are more than five years old. As a result, such REITs will have concurrent or overlapping acquisition, operational and disposition and liquidation phases as us, which may cause conflicts of interest to arise throughout each phase of our company with respect to, among other things, locating and acquiring properties, entering into leases and disposing of properties. The conflicts of interest each of our executive officers and each officer of our Advisor face may cause our operating results and the value of our investments to suffer. Officers of any service provider may face similar conflicts of interest should they be involved with the management of multiple REITs, and especially REITs in the developmental stage.Our officers and directors face conflicts of interest related to the positions they hold with affiliated entities, which could hinder our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and to generate returns to you. Certain of our executive officers, including Nicholas S. Schorsch, who also serves as the chairman of our board of directors, and Edward M. Weil, Jr., president, chief operating officer and secretary, also are officers of our Advisor, our Property Manager and other affiliated entities, including the advisor and property manager of other REITs sponsored by the American Realty Capital group of companies. As a result, these individuals owe fiduciary duties to these other entities and their stockholders and limited partners, which fiduciary duties may conflict with the duties that they owe to us and our stockholders.Their loyalties to these other entities could result in actions or inactions that are detrimental to our business, which could harm the implementation of our business strategy and our investment and leasing opportunities. Conflicts with our business and interests are most likely to arise from involvement in activities related to (a) allocation of new investments and management time and services between us and the other entities, (b) our purchase of properties from, or sale of properties, to affiliated entities, (c) the timing and terms of the investment in or sale of an asset, (d) development of our properties by affiliates, (e) investments with affiliates of our Advisor, (f) compensation to our Advisor, and (g) our relationship with our Property Manager. 10Table of ContentsOur Advisor and its affiliates face conflicts of interest relating to the incentive fee structure, including New York Recovery Special Limited Partnership, LLC (the "Special Limited Partner"), which could result in actions that are not necessarily in the long-term best interests of our stockholders. Under our advisory agreement and the partnership agreement of our operating partnership, our Advisor and its affiliates, including the Special Limited Partner, are entitled to fees and distributions that are structured in a manner intended to provide incentives to our Advisor to perform in our best interests and in the best interests of our stockholders. However, because our Advisor does not maintain a significant equity interest in us and is entitled to receive substantial minimum compensation regardless of performance, our Advisor's interests are not wholly aligned with those of our stockholders. In that regard, our Advisor could be motivated to recommend riskier or more speculative investments in order for us to generate the specified levels of performance or sales proceeds that would entitle our Advisor to fees. In addition, our Advisor's and its affiliates' entitlement to fees and distributions upon the sale of our assets and to participate in sale proceeds could result in our Advisor recommending sales of our investments at the earliest possible time at which sales of investments would produce the level of return that would entitle the Advisor to compensation relating to those sales, even if continued ownership of those investments might be in our best long-term interest. The partnership agreement will require us to pay a performance-based termination distribution to the Special Limited Partner if we terminate the advisory agreement prior to the listing of our shares for trading on an exchange or, absent a listing, in respect of its participation in net sales proceeds. To avoid paying this fee, our independent directors may decide against terminating the advisory agreement prior to our listing of our shares or disposition of our investments even if, but for the termination distribution, termination of the advisory agreement would be in our best interest. In addition, the requirement to pay the distribution the Special Limited Partner at termination could cause us to make different investment or disposition decisions than we would otherwise make, in order to satisfy our obligation to pay the distribution to the terminated advisor. Moreover, our Advisor will have the right to terminate the advisory agreement upon a change of control of our company and thereby trigger the payment of the terminated distribution, which could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing the change of control. There is no separate counsel for us and our affiliates, which could result in conflicts of interest, and such conflicts may not be resolved in our favor, which could adversely affect the value of your investment.Proskauer Rose LLP acts as legal counsel to us and also represents our Advisor and some of its affiliates. There is a possibility in the future that the interests of the various parties may become adverse and, under the Code of Professional Responsibility of the legal profession, Proskauer Rose LLP may be precluded from representing any one or all such parties. If any situation arises in which our interests appear to be in conflict with those of our Advisor or its affiliates, additional counsel may be retained by one or more of the parties to assure that their interests are adequately protected. Moreover, should a conflict of interest not be readily apparent, Proskauer Rose LLP may inadvertently act in derogation of the interest of the parties which could affect our ability to meet our investment objectives.Risks Related to Corporate StructureOur rights and the rights of our stockholders to recover claims against our officers, directors and our Advisor are limited, which could reduce your and our recovery against them if they cause us to incur losses.Maryland law provides that a director has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in the corporation's best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. In addition, subject to certain limitations set forth therein or under Maryland law, our charter provides that no director or officer will be liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages and requires us to indemnify our directors, our officers and our Advisor and our Advisor's affiliates and permits us to indemnify our employees and agents. We and our stockholders also may have more limited rights against our directors, officers, employees and agents, and our Advisor and its affiliates, than might otherwise exist under common law, which could reduce your and our recovery against them. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors, officers, employees and agents, or our Advisor and its affiliates in some cases.The limit on the number of shares a person may own may discourage a takeover that could otherwise result in a premium price to our stockholders. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person may own more than 9.8% in value of the aggregate of the outstanding shares of our stock or more than 9.8% (in value or number, whichever is more restrictive) of any class or series of the outstanding shares of our stock. This restriction may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all our assets) that might provide a premium price for holders of our common stock. Similarly, this restriction further limits a stockholder's ability to sell shares. 11Table of ContentsMaryland law prohibits certain business combinations, which may make it more difficult for us to be acquired and may limit your ability to exit the investment. Under Maryland law, "business combinations" between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. An interested stockholder is defined as: •any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's outstanding voting stock; or•an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then-outstanding stock of the corporation.A person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which he or she otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. However, in approving a transaction, the board of directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board of directors. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: •80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation; and•two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder.These super-majority vote requirements do not apply if the corporation's common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined under Maryland law, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder for its shares. The business combination statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by the board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Pursuant to the statute, our board of directors has exempted any business combination involving our Advisor or any affiliate of our Advisor. Consequently, the five-year prohibition and the super-majority vote requirements will not apply to business combinations between us and our Advisor or any affiliate of our Advisor. As a result, our Advisor and any of its affiliates may be able to enter into business combinations with us that may not be in the best interest of our stockholders, without compliance with the super-majority vote requirements and the other provisions of the statute. The business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. Maryland law limits the ability of a third-party to buy a large stake in us and exercise voting power in electing directors, which may discourage a takeover that could otherwise result in a premium price to our stockholder. The Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act provides that "control shares" of a Maryland corporation acquired in a "control share acquisition" have no voting rights except to the extent approved by the affirmative vote of stockholders entitled to cast two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Shares of stock owned by the acquirer, by officers or by employees who are directors of the corporation, are excluded from shares entitled to vote on the matter. "Control shares" are voting shares of stock which, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned by the acquirer or in respect of which the acquirer can exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquirer to exercise voting power in electing directors within specified ranges of voting power. Control shares do not include shares the acquiring person is then entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained stockholder approval. A "control share acquisition" means the acquisition of issued and outstanding control shares. The control share acquisition statute does not apply (a) to shares acquired in a merger, consolidation or share exchange if the corporation is a party to the transaction, or (b) to acquisitions approved or exempted by the charter or bylaws of the corporation. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Control Share Acquisition Act any and all acquisitions of our stock by any person. There can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. 12Table of ContentsStockholders are limited in their ability to sell your shares pursuant to our share repurchase program and may have to hold shares for an indefinite period of time.Our board of directors may amend the terms of our share repurchase program without stockholder approval. Our board of directors also is free to amend, suspend (in whole or in part) or terminate or reduce or increase the number of shares purchased under the share repurchase program upon 30 days' notice or to reject any request for repurchase. In addition, the share repurchase program includes numerous restrictions that limit a stockholder’s ability to sell shares. Generally, the stockholder must have held the shares for at least one year in order to participate in our share repurchase program. Subject to funds being available, until we establish estimated values for our shares, the purchase price for shares repurchased under our share repurchase program will be based on the amount paid to us for the purchase of common stock (which will equal a percentage ranging from 90% to 97.5% until a stockholder has continuously held his shares for at least four years, at which point such percentage will be 100%). The limits on repurchases under our share repurchase plan might prevent us from accommodating all repurchase requests made in any year. These restrictions severely limit a stockholder’s ability to sell shares. Further, the price at which we repurchase share could be greater than the original purchase price for the shares less commissions and organization and offering costs associated with the shares. Thus, the repurchase could have the effect of diluting remaining stockholders shares.Existing stockholders’ interests will be diluted if we issue additional shares.Existing stockholders do not have preemptive rights to any shares issued by us in the future. Our charter currently authorizes us to issue 350 million shares of stock, of which 300 million shares are classified as common stock and 50 million are classified as preferred stock. Our board of directors may amend our charter from time to time to increase or decrease the aggregate number of authorized shares of stock, or the number of authorized shares of any class or series of stock, or may classify or reclassify any unissued shares into the classes or series of stock without the necessity of obtaining stockholder approval. Except for preferred stock, all our shares may be issued in the discretion of our board of directors. Existing stockholders likely will suffer dilution of their equity investment in us, if we: (a) sell additional shares in the future, including those issued pursuant to our DRIP; (b) sell securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock; (c) issue shares of our common stock in a private offering of securities to institutional investors; (d) issue restricted share awards to our directors; (e) issue shares to our Advisor or its affiliates, successors or assigns, in payment of an outstanding fee obligation as set forth under our advisory agreement or other agreements; or (f) issue shares of our common stock to sellers of properties acquired by us in connection with an exchange of limited partnership units of the OP ("OP Units"). In addition, the partnership agreement for our operating partnership contains provisions that would allow, under certain circumstances, other entities, including other American Realty Capital-sponsored programs, to merge into or cause the exchange or conversion of their interest for OP Units. Because the OP Units may, in the discretion of our board of directors, be exchanged for shares of our common stock, any merger, exchange or conversion between our operating partnership and another entity ultimately could result in the issuance of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, thereby diluting the percentage ownership interest of other stockholders. If we issue preferred stock, the holders thereof will, upon liquidation, be entitled to receive our available assets prior to distribution to the holders of our common stock. Additionally, any preferred stock including convertible preferred stock or other securities convertible, exercisable or exchangeable for common stock that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock and may result in dilution to owners of our common stock. Any preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that could limit our ability pay distributions to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the value of our common stock and diluting the interest of existing stockholders.We depend on our operating subsidiary and its subsidiaries for cash flow and we will be structurally subordinated in right of payment to the obligations of our operating subsidiary and its subsidiaries.Our only significant asset is and will be the general partnership interests we own in our operating partnership. We conduct, and intend to conduct, all of our business operations through our operating partnership. Accordingly, our only source of cash to pay our obligations is distributions from our operating partnership and its subsidiaries of their net earnings and cash flows. There is no assurance that our operating partnership or its subsidiaries will be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to us that will enable us to make distributions to our stockholders from cash flows from operations or otherwise pay any other obligations. Each of our operating partnership's subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from these entities. In addition, because we are a holding company, stockholder claims will be structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations of our operating partnership and its subsidiaries. Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, our assets and those of our operating partnership and its subsidiaries will be able to satisfy stockholder claims as stockholders only after all of our and our operating partnerships and its subsidiaries liabilities and obligations have been paid in full.13Table of ContentsOffice Industry Risks Declines in overall activity in our markets may adversely affect the performance of our office properties. Rental income from office properties fluctuates with general market and economic conditions. Our office properties may be adversely affected by market or economic challenges experienced by the U.S. economy or real estate industry as a whole. Because our portfolio includes commercial office buildings located in the New York MSA, if economic conditions there persist or deteriorate, then our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service current debt and to pay distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected by the following potential conditions, among others: •that significant job losses in the financial and professional services industries have occurred and may continue to occur, which may decrease demand for our office space, causing market rental rates and property values to be negatively impacted;•that our ability to borrow on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, or at all, may be limited, which could reduce our ability to pursue acquisition and development opportunities and refinance existing debt, reduce our returns from both our existing operations and our acquisition and development activities and increase our future interest expense;•that reduced values of our properties may limit our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices or to obtain debt financing secured by our properties and may reduce the availability of unsecured loans; and•that reduced liquidity in debt markets and increased credit risk premiums for certain market participants may impair our ability to access capital.These conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions, may continue or worsen in the future. We also may experience a decrease in occupancy and rental rates accompanied by increases in the cost of re-leasing space (including for tenant improvements) and in uncollectible receivables. Early lease terminations may significantly contribute to a decline in occupancy of our office properties and may adversely affect our profitability. While lease termination fees increase current period income, future rental income may be diminished because, during periods in which market rents decline, it is unlikely that we will collect from replacement tenants the full contracted amount which had been payable under the terminated leases. The loss of anchor tenants for our office properties could adversely affect our profitability. Our portfolio includes office properties and, as with our retail properties, we are subject to the risk that tenants may be unable to make their lease payments or may decline to extend a lease upon its expiration. A lease termination by a tenant that occupies a large area of space in one of our office properties (commonly referred to as an anchor tenant) could impact leases of other tenants. Other tenants may be entitled to modify the terms of their existing leases in the event of a lease termination by an anchor tenant or the closure of the business of an anchor tenant that leaves its space vacant, even if the anchor tenant continues to pay rent. Any such modifications or conditions could be unfavorable to us as the property owner and could decrease rents or expense recoveries. In the event of default by an anchor tenant, we may experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord to recover amounts due to us under the terms of our agreements with those parties. We may be adversely affected by certain trends that reduce demand for office real estate. Some businesses are rapidly evolving to increasingly permit employee telecommuting, flexible work schedules, open workplaces and teleconferencing. These practices enable businesses to reduce their space requirements. A continuation of the movement towards these practices could over time erode the overall demand for office space and, in turn, place downward pressure on occupancy, rental rates and property valuations, each of which could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make expected distributions to our stockholders.Retail Industry Risks Retail conditions may adversely affect our income. A retail property's revenues and value may be adversely affected by a number of factors, many of which apply to real estate investment generally, but which also include trends in the retail industry and perceptions by retailers or shoppers of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of the retail property. In addition, to the extent that the investing public has a negative perception of the retail sector, the value of our common stock may be negatively impacted. Some of our leases provide for base rent plus contractual base rent increases. A number of our retail leases also include a percentage rent clause for additional rent above the base amount based upon a specified percentage of the sales our tenants generate. Under those leases which contain percentage rent clauses, our revenue from tenants may increase as the sales of our tenants increase. Generally, retailers face declining revenues during downturns in the economy. As a result, the portion of our revenue which we may derive from percentage rent leases could decline upon a general economic downturn. 14Table of ContentsOur revenue will be impacted by the success and economic viability of our anchor retail tenants. Our reliance on single or significant tenants in certain buildings may decrease our ability to lease vacated space. In the retail sector, any tenant occupying a large portion of the gross leasable area of a retail center, a tenant of any of the triple-net single-user retail properties outside the primary geographical area of investment, commonly referred to as an anchor tenant, or a tenant that is our anchor tenant at more than one retail center, may become insolvent, may suffer a downturn in business, or may decide not to renew its lease. Any of these events would result in a reduction or cessation in rental payments to us and would adversely affect our financial condition. A lease termination by an anchor tenant could result in lease terminations or reductions in rent by other tenants whose leases permit cancellation or rent reduction if another tenant's lease is terminated. We may own properties where the tenants may have rights to terminate their leases if certain other tenants are no longer open for business. These "co-tenancy" provisions also may exist in some leases where we own a portion of a retail property and one or more of the anchor tenants leases space in that portion of the center not owned or controlled by us. If such tenants were to vacate their space, tenants with co-tenancy provisions would have the right to terminate their leases with us or seek a rent reduction from us. In such event, we may be unable to re-lease the vacated space. Similarly, the leases of some anchor tenants may permit the anchor tenant to transfer its lease to another retailer. The transfer to a new anchor tenant could cause customer traffic in the retail center to decrease and thereby reduce the income generated by that retail center. A lease transfer to a new anchor tenant could also allow other tenants to make reduced rental payments or to terminate their leases at the retail center. If we are unable to re-lease the vacated space to a new anchor tenant, we may incur additional expenses in order to re-model the space to be able to re-lease the space to more than one tenant. Competition with other retail channels may reduce our profitability and the return on your investment. Our retail tenants face potentially changing consumer preferences and increasing competition from other forms of retailing, such as discount shopping centers, outlet centers, upscale neighborhood strip centers, catalogues and other forms of direct marketing, discount shopping clubs, internet websites and telemarketing. Other retail centers within the market area of our properties may compete with our properties for customers, affecting their tenants' cash flows and thus affecting their ability to pay rent. In addition, some of our tenants' rent payments may be based on the amount of sales revenue that they generate. If these tenants experience competition, the amount of their rent may decrease and our cash flow will decrease. Lodging Industry Risks The hotel industry is very competitive and seasonal and has been affected by economic slowdowns, terrorist attacks and other world events. The hotel industry is intensely competitive and seasonal in nature and has been affected by the recent economic slowdown, terrorist attacks, military activity in the Middle East, natural disasters and other world events impacting the global economy and the travel and hotel industries, and, as a result, our lodging properties may be adversely affected. Because the hotel industry is intensely competitive, our third-party management company and our third-party tenants may be unable to compete successfully or if our competitors' marketing strategies are more effective, our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows including our ability to service debt and to make distributions to our stockholders, may be adversely affected. In particular, as a result of terrorist attacks around the world, the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and the effects of the economic recession, subsequent to 2001 the lodging industry experienced a significant decline in business caused by a reduction in both business and leisure travel. Our business and lodging properties may continue to be affected by such events, including our hotel occupancy levels and average daily rates, and, as a result, our revenues may decrease or not increase to levels we expect. Because we do not directly operate our lodging properties, our revenues depend on the ability of our third-party management company and our-third party tenants to compete successfully with other hotels in the New York MSA. Some of our competitors have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than we do. If our third-party management company and our third-party tenants are unable to compete successfully, including competition from Internet intermediaries, or if our competitors' marketing strategies are effective, our results of operations, financial condition, ability to service debt and ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected. In addition, the seasonality of the hotel industry can be expected to cause quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and also may be adversely affected by factors outside our control, such as extreme or unexpectedly mild weather conditions or natural disasters, terrorist attacks or alerts, outbreaks of contagious diseases, airline strikes, economic factors and other considerations affecting travel. To the extent that cash flows from operations are insufficient during any quarter, due to temporary or seasonal fluctuations in revenues, we may attempt to borrow in order to make distributions to our stockholders or be required to reduce other expenditures or distributions to stockholders. 15Table of ContentsOur profitability may be adversely affected by unstable market and business conditions and insufficient demand for lodging due to reduced business and leisure travel. Our hotels will be subject to all the risks common to the hotel industry and subject to market conditions that affect all hotel properties. These risks could adversely affect hotel occupancy and the rates that can be charged for hotel rooms as well as hotel operating expenses, and generally include: •increases in supply of hotel rooms that exceed increases in demand;•increases in energy costs and other travel expenses that reduce business and leisure travel;•reduced business and leisure travel due to continued geo-political uncertainty, including terrorism;•adverse effects of declines in general and local economic activity;•adverse effects of a downturn in the hotel industry; and•risks generally associated with the ownership of hotels and real estate, as discussed below.We do not have control over the market and business conditions that affect the value of our lodging properties, and adverse changes with respect to such conditions could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Hotel properties are subject to varying degrees of risk generally common to the ownership of hotels, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: •increased competition from other existing hotels in our markets;•new hotels entering our markets, which may adversely affect the occupancy levels and average daily rates of our lodging properties;•declines in business and leisure travel;•increases in energy costs, increased threat of terrorism, terrorist events, airline strikes or other factors that may affect travel patterns and reduce the number of business and leisure travelers;•increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors that may not be offset by increased room rates;•changes in, and the related costs of compliance with, governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances; and•adverse effects of international, national, regional and local economic and market conditions.Adverse changes in any or all these factors could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, thereby adversely impacting our ability to service debt and to make distributions to our stockholders. As a REIT, we cannot directly operate our lodging properties, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and our cash flows, which could impact our ability to service debt and make distributions to our stockholders. We cannot and do not directly operate our lodging properties and, as a result, our results of operations, financial position, ability to service debt and our ability to make distributions to stockholders are dependent on the ability of our third-party management companies and our tenants to operate our hotel properties successfully. In order for us to satisfy certain REIT qualification rules, we cannot directly operate any lodging properties or actively participate in the decisions affecting their daily operations. Instead, through a taxable REIT subsidiary, or TRS, we must enter into management agreements with a third-party management company, or we must lease our lodging properties to third-party tenants on a triple-net lease basis. We cannot and do not control this third-party management company or the tenants who operate and are responsible for maintenance and other day-to-day management of our lodging properties, including, but not limited to, the implementation of significant operating decisions. Thus, even if we believe our lodging properties are being operated inefficiently or in a manner that does not result in satisfactory operating results, we may not be able to require the third-party management company or the tenants to change their method of operation of our lodging properties. Our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and our ability to service debt and to make distributions to stockholders are, therefore, dependent on the ability of our third-party management company and tenants to operate our lodging properties successfully. Any negative publicity or other adverse developments that affect that operator and/or its affiliated brands generally may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and consequently cash flows thereby impacting our ability to service debt, and to make distributions to our stockholders. There can be no assurance that our affiliate will continue to manage any lodging properties we acquire. 16Table of ContentsWe will rely on a third-party hotel management company to establish and maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting at our lodging properties. We do not, however, control the design or implementation of or changes to internal controls at any of our lodging properties. Thus, even if we believe that our lodging properties are being operated without effective internal controls, we may not be able to require the third-party management company to change its internal control structure. This could require us to implement extensive and possibly inefficient controls at a parent level in an attempt to mitigate such deficiencies. If such controls are not effective, the accuracy of the results of our operations that we report could be affected. Accordingly, our ability to conclude that, as a company, our internal controls are effective is significantly dependent upon the effectiveness of internal controls that our third-party management company will implement at our lodging properties. It is possible that we could have a significant deficiency or material weakness as a result of the ineffectiveness of the internal controls at one or more of our lodging properties. If we replace a third-party management company or tenant, we may be required by the terms of the relevant management agreement or lease to pay substantial termination fees, and we may experience significant disruptions at the affected lodging properties. We may not be able to make arrangements with a third-party management company or tenants with substantial prior lodging experience in the future. If we experience such disruptions, it may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and our cash flows, including our ability to service debt and to make distributions to our stockholders. Our use of the taxable REIT subsidiary structure will increase our expenses.A taxable REIT subsidiary structure will subject us to the risk of increased lodging operating expenses. The performance of our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be based on the operations of our lodging properties. Our operating risks will include not only changes in hotel revenues and changes to our taxable REIT subsidiaries’ ability to pay the rent due to us under the leases, but also increased hotel operating expenses, including, but not limited to, the following cost elements:• wage and benefit costs;• repair and maintenance expenses;• energy costs;• property taxes;• insurance costs; and• other operating expenses.Any increases in one or more these operating expenses could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.Failure to maintain franchise licenses could decrease our revenues.The inability to maintain franchise licenses could decrease our revenues. Maintenance of franchise licenses for our lodging properties is subject to maintaining our franchisor’s operating standards and other terms and conditions. Franchisors periodically inspect lodging properties to ensure that such lodging properties are maintained in accordance with their standards. Failure to maintain our lodging properties in accordance with these standards or comply with other terms and conditions of the applicable franchise agreement could result in a franchise license being canceled. If a franchise license terminates due to our failure to make required improvements or to otherwise comply with its terms, we may also be liable to the franchisor for a termination fee. As a condition to the maintenance of a franchise license, our franchisor could also require us to make capital expenditures, even if we do not believe the capital improvements are necessary, desirable, or likely to result in an acceptable return on our investment. We may risk losing a franchise license if we do not make franchisor-required capital expenditures.If our franchisor terminates the franchise license, we may try either to obtain a suitable replacement franchise or to operate the lodging property without a franchise license. The loss of a franchise license could materially and adversely affect the operations or the underlying value of the lodging property because of the loss associated with the brand recognition and/or the marketing support and centralized reservation systems provided by the franchisor. A loss of a franchise license for one or more lodging properties could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and our cash flows, including our ability to service debt and make distributions to our stockholders.There are risks associated with employing hotel employees.We will generally be subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel employees. Any lodging properties we acquire will be leased to one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries and be subject to management agreements with our property manager or a third-party property manager to operate the properties that we do not lease to a third party under a net lease. Hotel operating revenues and expenses for these properties will be included in our consolidated results of operations. As a result, although we do not directly employ or manage the labor force at our lodging properties, we are subject to many of the costs and risks generally associated with the hotel labor force. Our property manager or a third-party property manager will be responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each of our lodging properties and for establishing and maintaining the 17Table of Contentsappropriate processes and controls over such activities. From time to time, the operations of our lodging properties may be disrupted through strikes, public demonstrations or other labor actions and related publicity. We may also incur increased legal costs and indirect labor costs as a result of the aforementioned disruptions, or contract disputes or other events. A third-party property manager may be targeted by union actions or adversely impacted by the disruption caused by organizing activities. Significant adverse disruptions caused by union activities or increased costs affiliated with such activities could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and our cash flows, including our ability to service debt and make distributions to our stockholders.The expanding use of Internet travel websites by customers can adversely affect our profitability.The increasing use of Internet travel intermediaries by consumers may experience fluctuations in operating performance during the year and otherwise adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. Our property manager and any third-party property manager will rely upon Internet travel intermediaries such as Travelocity.com, Expedia.com, Orbitz.com, Hotels.com and Priceline.com to generate demand for our lodging properties. As Internet bookings increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from our property manager or any third-party property manager. Moreover, some of these Internet travel intermediaries are attempting to offer hotel rooms as a commodity, by increasing the importance of price and general indicators of quality (such as ‘‘three-star downtown hotel’’) at the expense of brand identification. Consumers may eventually develop brand loyalties to their reservations system rather than to our property manager or any third-party property manager and/or our brands, which could have an adverse effect on our business because we will rely heavily on brand identification. If the amount of sales made through Internet intermediaries increases significantly and our property manager or a third-party property manager fails to appropriately price room inventory in a manner that maximizes the opportunity for enhanced profit margins, room revenues may flatten or decrease and our profitability may be adversely affected.Residential Industry Risks The short-term nature of our residential leases may adversely impact our income. If our residents decide not to renew their leases upon expiration, we may not be able to relet their units. Because substantially all our residential leases will be for apartments, they generally will be for terms of no more than one or two years. If we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the units then our results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Certain significant expenditures associated with each equity investment in real estate (such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs) are generally not reduced when circumstances result in a reduction in rental income. An economic downturn could adversely affect the residential industry and may affect operations for the residential properties that we acquire. As a result of the effects of an economic downturn, including increased unemployment rates, the residential industry may experience a significant decline in business caused by a reduction in overall renters. The current economic downturn and increase in unemployment rates may have an adverse effect on our operations if the tenants occupying the residential properties we acquire cease making rent payments to us. Moreover, low residential mortgage interest rates could accompany an economic downturn and encourage potential renters to purchase residences rather than lease them. Our residential properties may experience declines in occupancy rate due to any such decline in residential mortgage interest rates. Industrial Industry Risks Potential liability as the result of, and the cost of compliance with, environmental matters is greater if we invest in industrial properties or lease our properties to tenants that engage in industrial activities. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on such property. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. We may invest in properties historically used for industrial, manufacturing and commercial purposes. Some of these properties are more likely to contain, or may have contained, underground storage tanks for the storage of petroleum products and other hazardous or toxic substances. All of these operations create a potential for the release of petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. Leasing properties to tenants that engage in industrial, manufacturing and commercial activities will cause us to be subject to increased risk of liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to properly remediate these substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell, rent or pledge such property as collateral for future borrowings. 18Table of ContentsThe demand for and profitability of our industrial properties may be adversely affected by fluctuations in manufacturing activity in the United States. Our industrial properties may be adversely affected if manufacturing activity decreases in the United States. Trade agreements with foreign countries have given employers the option to utilize less expensive non-US manufacturing workers. The outsourcing of manufacturing functions could lower the demand for our industrial properties. Moreover, an increase in the cost of raw materials or decrease in the demand of housing could cause a slowdown in manufacturing activity, such as furniture, textiles, machinery and chemical products, and our profitability may be adversely affected. Our portfolio may be negatively impacted by a high concentration of industrial tenants in a single industry. If we invest in industrial properties, we may lease properties to tenants that engage in similar industrial, manufacturing and commercial activities. A high concentration of tenants in a specific industry would magnify the adverse impact that a downturn in such industry might otherwise have to our portfolio.Risks Associated with Debt Financing and Investments We have broad authority to incur debt, and high levels of debt could hinder our ability to make distributions and could decrease the value of your investment.We expect that in most instances, we will acquire real properties by using either existing financing or borrowing new funds. In addition, we may incur mortgage debt and pledge all or some of our real properties as security for that debt to obtain funds to acquire additional real properties. We may borrow if we need funds to satisfy the REIT tax qualification requirement that we distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income to our stockholders. We also may borrow if we otherwise deem it necessary or advisable to assure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT. Our Advisor believes that utilizing borrowing is consistent with our investment objective of maximizing the return to investors. There is no limitation on the amount we may borrow against any single improved property. Under our charter, our borrowings may not exceed 300% of our total "net assets" (as defined in our charter and in accordance with the NASAA REIT Guidelines) as of the date of any borrowing, which is generally expected to be approximately 75% of the cost of our investments; however, we may exceed that limit if approved by a majority of our independent directors and disclosed to stockholders in our next quarterly report following such borrowing along with justification for exceeding such limit. This charter limitation, however, does not apply to individual real estate assets or investments. In addition, it is our intention to limit our borrowings to 40% to 50% of the aggregate fair market value of our assets (calculated after the close of our offering and once we have invested substantially all the proceeds of our offering), unless excess borrowing is approved by a majority of the independent directors and disclosed to stockholders in our next quarterly report following such borrowing along with justification for such excess borrowing. This limitation, however, will not apply to individual real estate assets or investments. At the date of acquisition of each asset, we anticipate that that the cost of investment for such asset will be substantially similar to its fair market value, which will enable us to satisfy our requirements under the NASAA REIT Guidelines. However, subsequent events, including changes in the fair market value of our assets, could result in our exceeding these limits. If we obtain independent director approval and borrow in excess of these limitation, our debt levels will be higher until we have invested most of our capital. High debt levels would cause us to incur higher interest charges, would result in higher debt service payments and could be accompanied by restrictive covenants. These factors could limit the amount of cash we have available to distribute and could result in a decline in the value of your investment.If there is a shortfall between the cash flow from a property and the cash flow needed to service mortgage debt on a property, then the amount available for distributions to stockholders may be reduced. In addition, incurring mortgage debt increases the risk of loss since defaults on indebtedness secured by a property may result in lenders initiating foreclosure actions. In that case, we could lose the property securing the loan that is in default, thus reducing the value of your investment. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds. In such event, we may be unable to pay the amount of distributions required in order to maintain our REIT status. We may give full or partial guarantees to lenders of mortgage debt to the entities that own our properties. When we provide a guaranty on behalf of an entity that owns one of our properties, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by such entity. If any mortgages contain cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions, a default on a single property could affect multiple properties. If any of our properties are foreclosed upon due to a default, our ability to pay cash distributions to our stockholders will be adversely affected which could result in our losing our REIT status and would result in a decrease in the value of your investment. 19Table of ContentsLenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations, which could limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In connection with providing us financing, a lender could impose restrictions on us that affect our distribution and operating policies and our ability to incur additional debt. Loan documents we enter into may contain covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the property, discontinue insurance coverage or replace our Advisor. These or other limitations may adversely affect our flexibility and our ability to achieve our investment and operating objectives. Increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our debt payments and adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. To the extent that we incur variable rate debt, increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs, which could reduce our cash flows and our ability to pay distributions to you. In addition, if we need to repay existing debt during periods of rising interest rates, we could be required to liquidate one or more of our investments in properties at times that may not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments. U.S. Federal Income Tax Risks Our failure to remain qualified as a REIT would subject us to U.S. federal income tax and potentially state and local tax, and would adversely affect our operations.We have elected to be taxed as a REIT commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2011 and intend to operate in a manner that would allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT. However, we may terminate our REIT qualification, if our board of directors determines that not qualifying as a REIT is in our best interests, or inadvertently. Our qualification as a REIT depends upon our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex and interpretation of the U.S. federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT is limited. Furthermore, any opinion of our counsel, including tax counsel, as to our eligibility to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service "IRS") and is not a guarantee that we will qualify, or continue to qualify, as a REIT. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in operating so we can qualify or remain qualified as a REIT. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends on our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT income or quarterly asset requirements also depends on our ability to successfully manage the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. Accordingly, if certain of our operations were to be recharacterized by the IRS, such recharacterization would jeopardize our ability to satisfy all requirements for qualification as a REIT. Furthermore, future legislative, judicial or administrative changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws could be applied retroactively, which could result in our disqualification as a REIT.If we fail to continue to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates. In addition, we would generally be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year of losing our REIT qualification. Losing our REIT qualification would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability. In addition, distributions to stockholders would no longer qualify for the dividends paid deduction, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. If this occurs, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax.Even if we qualify as a REIT, in certain circumstances, we may incur tax liabilities that would reduce our cash available for other purposes.Even if we qualify and maintain our status as a REIT, we may be subject to U.S. federal, state and local income taxes. For example, net income from the sale of properties that are "dealer" properties sold by a REIT (a "prohibited transaction" under the Code) will be subject to a 100% tax. We may not make sufficient distributions to avoid excise taxes applicable to REITs. We also may decide to retain net capital gain we earn from the sale or other disposition of our property and pay U.S. federal income tax directly on such income. In that event, our stockholders would be treated as if they earned that income and paid the tax on it directly. However, stockholders that are tax-exempt, such as charities or qualified pension plans, would have no benefit from their deemed payment of such tax liability unless they file U.S. federal income tax returns and thereon seek a refund of such tax. We also will be subject to corporate tax on any undistributed REIT taxable income. We also may be subject to state and local taxes on our income or property, including franchise, payroll and transfer taxes, either directly or at the level of our operating partnership or at the level of the other companies through which we indirectly own our assets, such as our TRSs, which are subject to full U.S. federal, state, local and foreign corporate-level income taxes. Any taxes we pay directly or indirectly will reduce our cash available for other purposes.20Table of ContentsTo qualify as a REIT we must meet annual distribution requirements, which may force us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities or borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions. This could delay or hinder our ability to meet our investment objectives.In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute annually to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (which does not equal net income, as calculated in accordance with GAAP), determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. We will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our undistributed REIT taxable income and net capital gain and to a 4%nondeductible excise tax on any amount by which distributions we pay with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of (a) 85% of our ordinary income, (b) 95% of our capital gain net income and (c) 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. These requirements could cause us to distribute amounts that otherwise would be spent on investments in real estate assets and it is possible that we might be required to borrow funds, possibly at unfavorable rates, or sell assets to fund these distributions. It is possible that we might not always be able to make distributions sufficient to meet the annual distribution requirements and to avoid U.S. federal income and excise taxes on our earnings while we qualify as a REIT.Certain of our business activities are potentially subject to the prohibited transaction tax.For so long as we qualify as a REIT, our ability to dispose of property during the first few years following acquisition may be restricted to a substantial extent as a result of our REIT qualification. Under applicable provisions of the Code regarding prohibited transactions by REITs, while we qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on any gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of any property (other than foreclosure property) that we own, directly or indirectly through any subsidiary entity, including our operating partnership, but generally excluding TRSs, that is deemed to be inventory or property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business. Whether property is inventory or otherwise held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business depends on the particular facts and circumstances surrounding each property. We intend to avoid the 100% prohibited transaction tax by (a) conducting activities that may otherwise be considered prohibited transactions through a TRS (but such TRS would incur corporate rate income taxes with respect to any income or gain recognized by it), (b) conducting our operations in such a manner so that no sale or other disposition of an asset we own, directly or indirectly through any subsidiary, will be treated as a prohibited transaction, or (c) structuring certain dispositions of our properties to comply with the requirements of the prohibited transaction safe harbor available under the Code for properties that, among other requirements, have been held for at least two years. Despite our present intention, no assurance can be given that any particular property we own, directly or through any subsidiary entity, including our operating partnership, but generally excluding TRSs will not be treated as inventory or property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business.Our TRSs are subject to corporate-level taxes and our dealings with our TRSs may be subject to 100% excise tax.A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 25% of the gross value of a REIT's assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs.A TRS may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT, including gross income from operations pursuant to management contracts. We may operate our "qualified assets" through one or more TRSs that lease such properties from us. We may use our TRSs generally for other activities as well, such as to hold properties for sale in the ordinary course of a trade or business or to hold assets or conduct activities that we cannot conduct directly as a REIT. A TRS will be subject to applicable U.S. federal, state, local and foreign income tax on its taxable income. In addition, the rules, which are applicable to us as a REIT, also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm's-length basis.If our leases to our TRSs are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT.To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy two gross income tests, under which specified percentages of our gross income must be derived from certain sources, such as "rents from real property." Rents paid to our operating partnership by our TRSs pursuant to the lease of our "qualified assets" will constitute substantially all of our gross income. In order for such rent to qualify as "rents from real property" for purposes of the REIT gross income tests, the leases must be respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes and not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. If our leases are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT.21Table of ContentsIf our operating partnership failed to qualify as a partnership or is not otherwise disregarded for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would cease to qualify as a REIT.We intend to maintain the status of our operating partnership as a partnership or a disregarded entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, if the IRS were to successfully challenge the status of our operating partnership as a partnership or disregarded entity for such purposes, it would be taxable as a corporation. In such event, this would reduce the amount of distributions that our operating partnership could make to us. This also would result in our failing to qualify as a REIT, and becoming subject to a corporate level tax on our income. This substantially would reduce our cash available to pay distributions and the yield on your investment. In addition, if any of the partnerships or limited liability companies through which our operating partnership owns its properties, in whole or in part, loses its characterization as a partnership and is otherwise not disregarded for U.S. federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to taxation as a corporation, thereby reducing distributions to the operating partnership. Such a recharacterization of an underlying property owner could also threaten our ability to maintain our REIT qualification.Our investments in certain debt instruments may cause us to recognize "phantom income" for U.S. federal income tax purposes even though no cash payments have been received on the debt instruments, and certain modifications of such debt by us could cause the modified debt to not qualify as a good REIT asset, thereby jeopardizing our REIT qualification.Our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as determined based on GAAP, or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur. For example, we may acquire assets, including debt securities requiring us to accrue original issue discount ("OID") or recognize market discount income, that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets referred to as "phantom income." In addition, if a borrower with respect to a particular debt instrument encounters financial difficulty rendering it unable to pay stated interest as due, we may nonetheless be required to continue to recognize the unpaid interest as taxable income with the effect that we will recognize income but will not have a corresponding amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders.As a result of the foregoing, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year and find it difficult or impossible to meet the REIT distribution requirements in certain circumstances. In such circumstances, we may be required to (a) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (b) borrow on unfavorable terms, (c) distribute amounts that would otherwise be used for future acquisitions or used to repay debt, or (d) make a taxable distribution of our shares of common stock as part of a distribution in which stockholders may elect to receive shares of common stock or (subject to a limit measured as a percentage of the total distribution) cash, in order to comply with the REIT distribution requirements.Moreover, we may acquire distressed debt investments that require subsequent modification by agreement with the borrower. If the amendments to the outstanding debt are "significant modifications" under the applicable Treasury Regulations, the modified debt may be considered to have been reissued to us in a debt-for-debt taxable exchange with the borrower. This deemed reissuance may prevent the modified debt from qualifying as a good REIT asset if the underlying security has declined in value and would cause us to recognize income to the extent the principal amount of the modified debt exceeds our adjusted tax basis in the unmodified debt.The failure of a mezzanine loan to qualify as a real estate asset would adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT.In general, in order for a loan to be treated as a qualifying real estate asset producing qualifying income for purposes of the REIT asset and income tests, the loan must be secured by real property. We may acquire mezzanine loans that are not directly secured by real property but instead secured by equity interests in a partnership or limited liability company that directly or indirectly owns real property. In Revenue Procedure 2003-65, the IRS provided a safe harbor pursuant to which a mezzanine loan that is not secured by real estate would, if it meets each of the requirements contained in the Revenue Procedure, be treated by the IRS as a qualifying real estate asset. Although the Revenue Procedure provides a safe harbor on which taxpayers may rely, it does not prescribe rules of substantive tax law and in many cases it may not be possible for us to meet all the requirements of the safe harbor. We cannot provide assurance that any mezzanine loan in which we invest would be treated as a qualifying asset producing qualifying income for REIT qualification purposes. If any such loan fails either the REIT income or asset tests, we may be disqualified as a REIT.22Table of ContentsWe may choose to make distributions in our own stock, in which case the stockholder may be required to pay U.S. federal income taxes in excess of the cash dividends received by them.In connection with our qualification as a REIT, we are required to distribute annually to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (which does not equal net income, as calculated in accordance with GAAP), determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. In order to satisfy this requirement, we may make distributions that are payable in cash and/or shares of our common stock (which could account for up to 80% of the aggregate amount of such distributions) at the election of each stockholder. Taxable stockholders receiving such distributions will be required to include the full amount of such distributions as ordinary dividend income to the extent of our current or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, U.S. stockholders may be required to pay U.S. federal income taxes with respect to such distributions in excess of the cash portion of the distribution received. Accordingly, U.S. stockholders receiving a distribution of our shares may be required to sell shares received in such distribution or may be required to sell other stock or assets owned by them, at a time that may be disadvantageous, in order to satisfy any tax imposed on such distribution. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock that it receives as part of the distribution in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the distribution, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to certain non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such distribution, including in respect of all or a portion of such distribution that is payable in stock, by withholding or disposing of part of the shares included in such distribution and using the proceeds of such disposition to satisfy the withholding tax imposed. Various tax aspects of such a taxable cash/stock distribution are uncertain and have not yet been addressed by the IRS. No assurance can be given that the IRS will not impose requirements in the future with respect to taxable cash/stock distributions, including on a retroactive basis, or assert that the requirements for such taxable cash/stock distributions have not been met.The taxation of distributions to our stockholders can be complex; however, distributions that we make to our stockholders generally will be taxable as ordinary income, which may reduce your anticipated return from an investment in us.Distributions that we make to our taxable stockholders out of current and accumulated earnings and profits (and not designated as capital gain dividends or qualified dividend income) generally will be taxable as ordinary income. However, a portion of our distributions may (1) be designated by us as capital gain dividends generally taxable as long-term capital gain to the extent that they are attributable to net capital gain recognized by us, (2) be designated by us as qualified dividend income generally to the extent they are attributable to dividends we receive from our TRSs, or (3) constitute a return of capital generally to the extent that they exceed our accumulated earnings and profits as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A return of capital is not taxable, but has the effect of reducing the basis of a stockholder's investment in our common stock.Our stockholders may have tax liability on distributions that they elect to reinvest in common stock, but they would not receive the cash from such distributions to pay such tax liability.If our stockholders participate in our DRIP, they will be deemed to have received, and for U.S. federal income tax purposes will be taxed on, the amount reinvested in shares of our common stock to the extent the amount reinvested was not a tax-free return of capital. In addition, our stockholders will be treated for tax purposes as having received an additional distribution to the extent the shares are purchased at a discount to fair market value. As a result, unless a stockholder is a tax-exempt entity, it may have to use funds from other sources to pay its tax liability on the value of the shares of common stock received.Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends.Currently, the maximum tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income payable to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for this reduced rate. Although this does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our common stock. Tax rates could be changed in future legislation.23Table of ContentsIf we were considered to actually or constructively pay a "preferential dividend" to certain of our stockholders, our status as a REIT could be adversely affected.In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute annually to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (which does not equal net income, as calculated in accordance with GAAP), determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. In order for distributions to be counted as satisfying the annual distribution requirements for REITs, and to provide us with a REIT-level tax deduction, the distributions must not be "preferential dividends." A dividend is not a preferential dividend if the distribution is pro rata among all outstanding shares of stock within a particular class, and in accordance with the preferences among different classes of stock as set forth in our organizational documents. Currently, there is uncertainty as to the IRS's position regarding whether certain arrangements that REITs have with their stockholders could give rise to the inadvertent payment of a preferential dividend (e.g., the pricing methodology for stock purchased under a distribution reinvestment plan inadvertently causing a greater than 5% discount on the price of such stock purchased). While we believe that our operations have been structured in such a manner that we will not be treated as inadvertently paying preferential dividends, there is no de minimis exception with respect to preferential dividends. Therefore, if the IRS were to take the position that we inadvertently paid a preferential dividend, we may be deemed either to (a) have distributed less than 100% of our REIT taxable income and be subject to tax on the undistributed portion, or (b) have distributed less than 90% of our REIT taxable income and our status as a REIT could be terminated for the year in which such determination is made if we were unable to cure such failure.Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge our liabilities effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities.The REIT provisions of the Code may limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. Any income from a hedging transaction we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes, price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets, if properly identified under applicable Treasury Regulations, does not constitute "gross income" for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions will likely be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our TRSs would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in a TRS generally will not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward against future taxable income of such TRS.Complying with REIT requirements may force us to forego and/or liquidate otherwise attractive investment opportunities.To qualify as a REIT, we must ensure that we meet the REIT gross income tests annually and that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets, including certain mortgage loans and certain kinds of mortgage-related securities. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets can consist of the securities of any one issuer (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) and no more than 25% of the value of our total assets can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate assets from our portfolio or not make otherwise attractive investments in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders.The ability of our board of directors to revoke our REIT qualification without stockholder approval may subject us to U.S. federal income tax and reduce distributions to our stockholders.Our charter provides that our board of directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. While we have elected to be taxed as a REIT, we may terminate our REIT election if we determine that qualifying as a REIT is no longer in our best interests. If we cease to be a REIT, we would become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income and would no longer be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our stockholders.24Table of ContentsWe may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could increase our tax liability, reduce our operating flexibility and reduce the market price of our common stock.In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made in the provisions of U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to investments similar to an investment in shares of our common stock. Additional changes to the tax laws are likely to continue to occur, and we cannot assure you that any such changes will not adversely affect the taxation of a stockholder. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in our shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our assets. You are urged to consult with your tax advisor with respect to the impact of recent legislation on your investment in our shares and the status of legislative, regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in our shares. You also should note that our counsel's tax opinion is based upon existing law, applicable as of the date of its opinion, all of which will be subject to change, either prospectively or retroactively.Although REITs generally receive better tax treatment than entities taxed as regular corporations, it is possible that future legislation would result in a REIT having fewer tax advantages, and it could become more advantageous for a company that invests in real estate to elect to be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a corporation. As a result, our charter provides our board of directors with the power, under certain circumstances, to revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election and cause us to be taxed as a regular corporation, without the vote of our stockholders. Our board of directors has fiduciary duties to us and our stockholders and could only cause such changes in our tax treatment if it determines in good faith that such changes are in the best interest of our stockholders.The share ownership restrictions of the Code for REITs and the 9.8% share ownership limit in our charter may inhibit market activity in our shares of stock and restrict our business combination opportunities.In order to qualify as a REIT, five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Code, may not own, actually or constructively, more than 50% in value of our issued and outstanding shares of stock at any time during the last half of each taxable year, other than the first year for which a REIT election is made. Attribution rules in the Code determine if any individual or entity actually or constructively owns our shares of stock under this requirement. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our shares of stock during at least 335 days of a taxable year for each taxable year, other than the first year for which a REIT election is made. To help insure that we meet these tests, among other purposes, our charter restricts the acquisition and ownership of our shares of stock.Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT while we so qualify. Unless exempted by our board of directors, for so long as we qualify as a REIT, our charter prohibits, among other limitations on ownership and transfer of shares of our stock, any person from beneficially or constructively owning (applying certain attribution rules under the Code) more than 9.8% in value of the aggregate of our outstanding shares of stock and more than 9.8% (in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of any class or series of our shares of stock. Our board of directors may not grant an exemption from these restrictions to any proposed transferee whose ownership in excess of the 9.8% ownership limit would result in the termination of our qualification as a REIT. These restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply, however, if our board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT or that compliance with the restrictions is no longer required in order for us to continue to qualify as a REIT.These ownership limits could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of the stockholders.Recharacterization of sale-leaseback transactions may cause us to lose our REIT status.If we enter into sale-leaseback transactions, we will use commercially reasonable efforts to structure any such sale- leaseback transaction such that the lease will be characterized as a "true lease" for tax purposes, thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The IRS may, however, challenge the characterization. In the event that any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and recharacterized as a financing transaction or loan for U.S. federal income tax purposes, deductions for depreciation and cost recovery relating to the property would be disallowed. If a sale-leaseback transaction were so recharacterized, we might fail to satisfy the REIT qualification "asset tests" or "income tests" and, consequently, lose our REIT status effective with the year of recharacterization. Alternatively, the amount of our REIT taxable income could be recalculated which might also cause us to fail to meet the distribution requirement for a taxable year.25Table of ContentsNon-U.S. stockholders will be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax and may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on distributions received from us and upon the disposition of our shares.Subject to certain exceptions, distributions received from us will be treated as dividends of ordinary income to the extent of our current or accumulated earnings and profits. Such dividends ordinarily will be subject to U.S. withholding tax at a 30% rate, or such lower rate as may be specified by an applicable income tax treaty, unless the distributions are treated as "effectively connected" with the conduct by the non-U.S. stockholder of a U.S. trade or business. Pursuant to the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980 ("FIRPTA") capital gain distributions attributable to sales or exchanges of "U.S. real property interests" ("USRPIs") generally will be taxed to a non-U.S. stockholder as if such gain were effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business. However, a capital gain dividend will not be treated as effectively connected income if (a) the distribution is received with respect to a class of stock that is regularly traded on an established securities market located in the United States and (b) the non-U.S. stockholder does not own more than 5% of the class of our stock at any time during the one- year period ending on the date the distribution is received. We do not anticipate that our shares will be "regularly traded" on an established securities market for the foreseeable future, and therefore, this exception is not expected to apply.Gain recognized by a non-U.S. stockholder upon the sale or exchange of our common stock generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxation unless such stock constitutes a USRPI under FIRPTA. Our common stock will not constitute a USRPI so long as we are a "domestically-controlled qualified investment entity". A domestically-controlled qualified investment entity includes a REIT if at all times during a specified testing period, less than 50% in value of such REIT's stock is held directly or indirectly by non-U.S. stockholders. We believe, but cannot assure you, that we will be a domestically- controlled qualified investment entity.Even if we do not qualify as a domestically-controlled qualified investment entity at the time a non-U.S. stockholder sells or exchanges our common stock, gain arising from such a sale or exchange would not be subject to U.S. taxation under FIRPTA as a sale of a USRPI if (a) our common stock is "regularly traded," as defined by applicable Treasury regulations, on an established securities market, and (b) such non-U.S. stockholder owned, actually and constructively, 5% or less of our common stock at any time during the five-year period ending on the date of the sale. Potential characterization of distributions or gain on sale may be treated as unrelated business taxable income to tax- exempt investors.If (a) we are a "pension-held REIT," (b) a tax-exempt stockholder has incurred (or is deemed to have incurred) debt to purchase or hold our common stock, or (c) a holder of common stock is a certain type of tax-exempt stockholder, dividends on, and gains recognized on the sale of, common stock by such tax-exempt stockholder may be subject to U.S. federal income tax as unrelated business taxable income under the CodeItem 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.Not applicable.26Table of Contents