Risk Factors The exploration, development and mining of natural resources are highly speculative in nature and are subject to significant risks. The risk factors noted below do not necessarily comprise all those faced by our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business, activities and future prospects. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business may be harmed and our financial condition and results of operations may suffer significantly. Industry Risks Mineral resource exploration is a high risk, speculative business. Mineral resource exploration is a speculative business, characterized by a high number of failures. Substantial expenditures are required to discover new properties and, where warranted, to develop the infrastructure, mining and processing facilities at any site chosen for mining. Most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable ore deposits and no assurance can be given that any particular level of recovery or mineral reserves will in fact be realized by us or that any identified mineral deposit identified by us will ever qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) ore body which can be economically and lawfully exploited. Metal prices have fluctuated widely in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future which may adversely affect our ability to finance activities and may adversely affect the amount of revenues derived from any future production at our properties. The commercial feasibility of our properties and our ability to arrange funding to conduct our planned exploration activities is dependent on, among other things, the price of REE. Depending on the price of REE, we may determine -13- that it is impractical to commence or continue exploration or other activities on our mineral claims. A reduction in the price of REE may prevent our mineral claims from being economically explored or result in the write‑off of assets whose value is impaired as a result of low REE prices. The prices of REE fluctuate and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including, among others: · international economic and political conditions, · expectations of inflation or deflation, · international currency exchange rates, · interest rates, · global or regional consumptive patterns, · speculative activities, · levels of supply and demand, · increased production due to new mine developments, · decreased production due to mine closures, · improved mining and production methods, · availability and costs of REE substitutes, · inventory levels of REE maintained by producers and others, and · inventory carrying costs. The effect of these factors on the price of REE cannot be accurately predicted. If the price of REE decreases, the value of our assets would be materially and adversely effected, thereby materially and adversely impacting the value and price of our securities. Exploration activities are subject to geologic uncertainty and inherent variability. There is inherent variability between duplicate samples taken adjacent to each other and between sampling points that cannot be reasonably eliminated. There may also be unknown geologic details that have not been identified or correctly appreciated at the current level of delineation. This results in uncertainties that cannot be reasonably eliminated from the estimation process. Some of the resulting variances can have a positive effect and others can have a negative effect on mining and processing operations. Increased operating and capital costs may adversely affect the viability of existing and proposed mining projects. Increases in the prices of labour and materials, to some extent caused by an increase in commodity prices, including the prices of the REE being mined by the industry, may lead to significantly increased capital and operating costs for mining projects. Increasing costs are a factor that must be built in to the economic model for any mining project. Significant increases in operating costs have had the effect of reducing profit margins for some mining projects. Accordingly increases in both operating and capital costs need to be factored into economic assessments of existing and proposed mining projects and may increase the financing requirements for such projects or render such projects uneconomic. Company Risks We are an exploration stage company with limited financial resources and if we are unable to secure additional funding and/or if our exploration programs are unsuccessful, our company may fail. Mineral exploration involves significant risk and few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. Substantial expenditures may be required to establish mineral reserves through drilling, to develop metallurgical processes to extract the metals from the properties and to construct the mining and processing facilities at any site chosen for mining. Current exploration programs may not result in any commercial mining operation. -14- Our interests in unproved mineral claims are without a known mineral reserve and the proposed programs are an exploratory search for mineral resources and mineral reserves. We are presently carrying out exploration with the objective of establishing mineral reserves on the property demonstrating economic viability. If our exploration programs are successful, additional funds will be required for the development of mineral reserves on the property demonstrating economic viability and to place the properties into commercial production. The only sources of future funds presently available to us are from the sale of equity capital, the exercise of warrants and options or the offering by us of an interest in our mineral claims to another party or parties. If we are unable to secure additional funding, we may lose our interest in one or more of our mineral claims and/or may be required to cease operations. Our management team lacks technical training and/or experience in starting and operating mines. The officers, and certain directors, of our company have experience as officers and/or directors of public companies engaged in mineral exploration activities. Our management are involved in exploration activity supervision and direction, although we use contract engineering firms to directly conduct exploration activities. However, our management lacks technical training and experience with starting or operating a mine. As a result, their decisions and choices may not take into account standard engineering or managerial approaches that other mining companies commonly use, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition if we mature beyond the exploration stage. Consequently, our activities, earnings, and ultimate financial success could be negatively impacted due to management's lack of experience in the mining industry, which could ultimately negatively impact the value of our investment in our properties. Because we have limited financial resources and have not generated any revenue from our operations, we may not be able to continue our operations and an investment in our securities may be worthless. We have limited financial resources, have a history of losses and have no source of operating cash flow. We have not generated any revenues from our mineral claims and do not anticipate any in the foreseeable future. Additional funding may not be available to us for further exploration of our mineral claims. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in delay or indefinite postponement of further exploration of our projects with the possible loss of such interests. Historically, the only source of funds available to us has been through the sale of our common shares. As of August 31, 2014, we held $6,136,271 in cash and had working capital of $5,403,122. We have prepared a budget of approximately $3,220,000 for the fiscal year ending August 31, 2015, comprising of $1,020,000 for completion of the PFS, exploration, metallurgy and permitting on the Nora Karr and Yxsjoberg properties and $2,200,000 for ongoing corporate and field general administration and overhead. We will need to raise additional capital to fund further exploration activities. We may not be able to raise the necessary funds, if any, and may not be able to raise such funds at terms which are acceptable to us. In the event we are unable to raise adequate finances to fund our proposed activities, we may have to abandon one or more of our projects. Any further additional equity financing we undertake may cause dilution to our shareholders. We have a limited history as an exploration company and do not have any experience in putting a mining project into production. We do not hold any mineral reserves and do not generate any revenues from production. Our success will depend largely upon our ability to locate and develop commercially viable mineral reserves, which may never happen. Further, putting a mining project into production requires substantial planning and expenditures and we do not have any experience in taking a mining project to production. As a result of these factors, it is difficult to evaluate our prospects, and our future success is more uncertain than if we had a longer or more proven history. We have operated at a loss since inception, expect to continue to incur losses and may never achieve profitability, which in turn may harm our future operating performance and may cause the market price of our common shares to decline. We have incurred net losses every year since our inception on August 29, 2007, and as of August 31, 2014, had an accumulated deficit of $18,476,032. We incurred a net loss of $2,442,008 for the year ended August 31, 2014, and $3,481,242 for the year ended August 31, 2013. We currently have no commercial production and have never -15- recorded any revenues from mining operations. We expect to continue to incur losses, and will continue to do so until such time, if ever, as our properties commence commercial production and generate sufficient revenues to fund continuing operations. The development of new exploration or, if warranted, mining operations will require the commitment of substantial resources for operating expenses and capital expenditures, which may increase in subsequent years as we add, as needed, consultants, personnel and equipment associated with advancing exploration, development and commercial production of our properties. The amounts and timing of expenditures will depend on the progress of ongoing exploration and development, the results of consultants' analyses and recommendations, the rate at which operating losses are incurred, the execution of any joint venture or other agreements with others in the future, our acquisition of additional properties, and other factors, many of which are unknown today and may be beyond our control. We may never generate any revenues or achieve profitability. If we do not achieve profitability we will have to raise additional funds through future financings or shut down our operations. We may not be able to obtain or renew government permits required for our operations. In the ordinary course of business, we are required to obtain and renew government permits for our exploration activities and will require permits for the development, construction and commencement of any mining operations. Obtaining or renewing the necessary governmental permits is a time-consuming process involving numerous regulatory agencies and involving public hearings and costly undertakings on our part. The duration and success of our efforts to obtain and renew permits are contingent upon many variables not within our control including the interpretation of applicable requirements implemented by the permitting authority. We may not be able to obtain or renew permits that are necessary to our operations, or the cost to obtain or renew permits may exceed what we believe we can ultimately recover from a given property once in production. Any unexpected delays or costs associated with the permitting process could delay the development or impede the operation of a mine. We have a small staff and rely upon outside consultants to provide services to our company. We have a relatively small staff and depend upon our ability to hire consultants with the appropriate background and expertise as they are required to carry out specific tasks. Our inability to hire the appropriate consultants at the appropriate time could adversely impact our ability to advance our exploration activities. Our activities are potentially subject to environmental liabilities, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. We are not aware of any claims for damages related to any impact that our operations have had on the environment but we may become subject to such claims in the future. An environmental claim could adversely affect our business due to the high costs of defending against such claims and its impact on senior management's time. Our business activities are subject to exploration hazards and risks, which we may not be able to insure against and could subject us to substantial liabilities. Natural resource exploration generally involves a high degree of risk, which even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: environmental hazards, industrial accidents, third party accidents, unusual or unexpected geological structures or formations, fires, power outages, labour disruptions, floods, explosions, cave‑ins, land‑slides, acts of God, periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions, earthquakes, delays in transportation, inaccessibility to property, restrictions of courts and/or government authorities, other restrictive matters beyond our reasonable control, and the inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment or labour. Our activities are subject to all the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration of precious and base metals, any of which could result in work stoppages, asset write downs, damage to or destruction of equipment and other facilities, damage to life and property, environmental damage and possible legal liability for any or all damages. We may become subject to liability for pollution, or hazards against which we cannot insure or against which we may elect not to insure. Any compensation for such liabilities may have a material, adverse effect on our financial position. -16- Our property, business interruption and liability insurance may not provide sufficient coverage for losses related to these or other hazards. Insurance against certain risks, including certain liabilities for environmental pollution, may not be available to us or to other companies within the industry at reasonable terms or at all. In addition, our insurance coverage may not continue to be available at economically feasible premiums, or at all. Any such event could have a material adverse affect on our business. Our properties are without known reserves and our activities are exploratory in nature and we may never discover sufficient mineralization to justify commercial operations. There are no mineral reserves with demonstrated economic viability on our mineral properties. Development of our properties will only follow upon obtaining satisfactory exploration results. The long-term profitability of our operations will be in part directly related to the cost and success of our exploration programs, which may be affected by a number of factors. Substantial expenditures are required to establish reserves through drilling and to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. Although substantial benefits may be derived from the discovery of a major mineralized deposit, no assurance can be given that minerals will be discovered in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations or that the funds required for development can be obtained on a timely basis. Concessions, authorizations, claims, leases, licenses and permits are subject to expiration, limitation on renewal and various other risks and uncertainties. Our operations depend on authorizations and concessions (including exploration and exploitation claims and leases) from governmental regulatory agencies in the countries in which we operate. We are subject to laws and regulations that can change at any time, and changes in laws and regulations may require modifications to our activities and result in unanticipated expenditures. Some of our mineral concessions are subject to fixed expiration dates and might only be renewed a limited number of times for a limited period of time. Apart from mineral concessions, we may need to obtain various authorizations, licenses and permits from governmental or other regulatory bodies in connection with the planning, maintenance and operation of our properties related logistics infrastructure, which may be subject to fixed expiration dates or periodic review or renewal. While we anticipate that renewals will be given as and when sought, there is no assurance that such renewals will be granted as a matter of course and on a timely basis, and there is no assurance that new conditions will not be imposed in connection with renewal. Fees for mineral concessions might increase substantially due to the passage of time from the original issuance of each individual mineral concession. If so, the costs of holding or renewing our mineral concessions might impede our business objectives. Accordingly, we need to continually assess the mineral potential of each concession, particularly at the time of renewal, to determine if the costs of maintaining the concession is justified by the results of our activities to date, and we might elect to let some of our concessions lapse. There can be no assurance that concessions will be obtained on terms favorable to us, or at all. See "