Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to numerous risks. Our results of operations depend upon many factors including our ability to implement our business strategy, the availability of opportunities to acquire assets, the level and volatility of interest rates, the cost and availability of short- and long-term credit, financial market conditions, and general economic conditions. The following discussion concerns some of the risks associated with our business. These risks are interrelated and you should treat them as a whole. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also materially and adversely affect the value of our common shares and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. In connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in these risk factors and elsewhere, you should carefully review the section entitled “Cautionary Statement About Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business and Properties We have no operating history and may not be able to successfully operate our business or generate sufficient operating cash flows to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders. We were organized in October 2009 and had our initial public offering in December 2009. We have no operating history and have no agreements to acquire any hotel properties. Our ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders will depend on many factors, including our ability to identify attractive acquisition opportunities that satisfy our investment strategy, our success in consummating acquisitions on favorable terms, the level and volatility of interest rates, readily accessible short-term and long-term financing on favorable terms, and conditions in the financial markets, the real estate market and the economy. We will face competition in acquiring attractive hotel properties. The value of the hotel properties that we acquire may decline substantially after we purchase them. We may not be able to successfully operate our business or implement our operating policies and investment strategy successfully. Furthermore, we may not be able to generate sufficient operating cash flow to pay our operating expenses and make distributions to our shareholders. As a newly formed company, we are subject to the risks of any newly established business enterprise, including risks that we will be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, create effective operating and financial controls and systems or effectively manage our anticipated growth, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results. 6 We have not yet identified any specific hotel properties to acquire and our short-term investments may provide lower net returns. Prior to the full investment of the net offering proceeds in hotel properties, we intend to invest the net proceeds in interest-bearing short-term, investment grade securities or money-market accounts which are consistent with our intention to qualify as a REIT. These investments are expected to provide a lower net return than we will seek to achieve from our investments in hotel properties. We may not be able to identify hotel investments that meet our investment criteria, we may not be successful in completing any investment we identify and our investments may not produce acceptable, or any, returns. We may be unable to invest the proceeds on acceptable terms, or at all. Our cash and cash equivalents and short term investments are maintained in a limited number of financial institutions and the funds in those institutions may not be fully or federally insured. We maintain cash balances in a limited number of financial institutions. However, our cash balances are generally in excess of federally insured limits. The failure or collapse of one or more of these financial institutions may materially adversely affect our ability to recover our cash balances. We depend on the efforts and expertise of our key executive officers and would be adversely affected by the loss of their services. We depend on the efforts and expertise of our President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as our other executive officers, to execute our business strategy. The loss of their services, and our inability to find suitable replacements, would have an adverse effect on our business. Our senior executive officers have broad discretion to make investments, and they may make investments where the returns are substantially below expectations or which result in net operating losses. Our senior executive officers have broad discretion, within the general investment criteria established by our board of trustees, to invest the net proceeds of this offering and the concurrent private placement and to determine the timing of such investments. In addition, our investment policies may be revised from time to time at the discretion of our board of trustees, without a vote of our shareholders. Such discretion could result in investments that may not yield returns consistent with expectations. We intend to invest primarily in the upper upscale segment of the lodging market which is highly competitive and generally subject to greater volatility than most other market segments and could negatively affect our profitability. The upper upscale segment of the hotel business is highly competitive. Our hotel properties will compete on the basis of location, room rates, quality, service levels, reputation and reservations systems, among many factors. There are many competitors in the upper upscale segment, and many of these competitors may have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than we have. This competition could reduce occupancy levels and room revenue at our hotels. Over-building in the lodging industry may increase the number of rooms available and may decrease occupancy and room rates. In addition, in periods of weak demand, as may occur during a general economic recession, profitability is negatively affected by the relatively high fixed costs of operating upper upscale hotels. Failure of the lodging industry to exhibit improvement may adversely affect the operating results of the hotels we acquire and our ability to execute our business strategy. A substantial part of our business strategy is based on our expectation that lodging industry fundamentals will improve as forecast by industry analysts, which project that RevPAR growth will turn positive in 2011, thereby improving profitability. There can be no assurance as to whether, or when, lodging industry fundamentals will in fact improve or to what extent they will improve. In the event conditions in the industry do not improve when and as we expect, or deteriorate, the operating results of hotels we acquire and our ability to execute our business strategy may be impaired. 7 Our returns could be negatively impacted if the third-party management companies that will operate our hotels do not manage our hotel properties effectively. Since federal income tax laws restrict REITs and their subsidiaries from operating or managing a hotel, we will not operate any hotel properties we acquire. Instead, we will lease substantially all of our hotel properties to subsidiaries that qualify as TRSs, under applicable REIT laws, and our TRS lessees will retain third-party managers to operate our hotels pursuant to management contracts. Our cash flow from the hotels may be adversely affected if our managers fail to provide quality services and amenities or if they or their affiliates fail to maintain a quality brand name. In addition, our managers or their affiliates may manage, and in some cases may own, invest in or provide credit support or operating guarantees to hotels that compete with hotel properties that we acquire, which may result in conflicts of interest and decisions regarding the operation of our hotels that are not in our best interests. We will not have the authority to require any hotel property to be operated in a particular manner or to govern any particular aspect of the daily operations of any hotel property (for example, setting room rates). Thus, even if we believe our hotels are being operated inefficiently or in a manner that does not result in satisfactory occupancy rates, RevPAR and ADR, we may not be able to force the management company to change its method of operating our hotels. We generally will attempt to resolve issues with our managers through discussions and negotiations. However, if we are unable to reach satisfactory results through discussions and negotiations, we may choose to litigate the dispute or submit the matter to third-party dispute resolution. We can only seek redress if a management company violates the terms of the applicable management contract with a TRS lessee, and then only to the extent of the remedies provided for under the terms of the management contract. Additionally, in the event that we need to replace any management company, we may be required by the terms of the management contract to pay substantial termination fees and may experience significant disruptions at the affected hotels. Restrictive covenants in our management contracts could preclude us from taking actions with respect to the sale or refinancing of a hotel property that would otherwise be in our best interest. Although we currently intend to enter into flexible management contracts that will provide us with the ability to replace our hotel managers on relatively short notice, we may enter into management contracts that contain some restrictive covenants or acquire properties subject to existing management contracts that do not allow such flexibility. For example, the terms of some management contracts may restrict our ability to sell a property unless the purchaser is not a competitor of the manager and assumes the related management contract and meets specified other conditions. If we enter into any such management contracts, or acquire properties with such terms, we may be precluded from taking actions that would otherwise be in our best interest or could cause us to incur substantial expense. Our TRS lessee structure will subject us to the risk of increased hotel operating expenses. Our leases with our TRS lessees will require our TRS lessees to pay us rent based in part on revenues from our hotels. Our operating risks include decreases in hotel revenues and increases in hotel operating expenses, which would adversely affect our TRS lessees’ ability to pay us rent due under the leases, including but not limited to the increases in: wage and benefit costs; repair and maintenance expenses; energy costs; property taxes; insurance costs; and other operating expenses. Increases in these operating expenses can have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Our hotels operated under franchise agreements will be subject to risks arising from adverse developments with respect to the franchise brand and to costs associated with maintaining the franchise license. We expect that many of our hotel properties will operate under franchise agreements, and that we will be subject to the risks associated with concentrating hotel investments in several franchise brands. These risks 8 include reductions in business following negative publicity related to one of the brands or the general decline of a brand. The maintenance of the franchise licenses for branded hotel properties will be subject to the franchisors’ operating standards and other terms and conditions. Franchisors will periodically inspect hotel properties to ensure that we and our lessees and management companies follow their standards. Failure by us, one of our TRS lessees or one of our third-party management companies to maintain these standards or other terms and conditions could result in a franchise license being canceled. If a franchise license is cancelled due to our failure to make required improvements or to otherwise comply with its terms, we also may be liable to the franchisor for a termination payment, which varies by franchisor and by hotel property. As a condition of maintaining a franchise license, a franchisor could require us to make capital expenditures, even if we do not believe the capital improvements are necessary or desirable or will result in an acceptable return on our investment. We may risk losing a franchise license if we do not make franchisor-required capital expenditures. If a franchisor terminates the franchise license or the license expires, we may try either to obtain a suitable replacement franchise or to operate the hotel without a franchise license. The loss of a franchise license could materially and adversely affect the operations and the underlying value of the hotel property because of the loss of associated name recognition, marketing support and centralized reservation system provided by the franchisor and adversely affect our revenues. This loss of revenue could in turn adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Our ability to make distributions to our shareholders is subject to fluctuations in our financial performance, operating results and capital improvements requirements. To qualify for taxation as a REIT, we will be required to distribute at least 90 percent of our REIT taxable income (determined before the deduction for dividends paid and excluding any net capital gains) each year to our shareholders and we generally expect to make distributions in excess of such amount. In the event of downturns in our operating results, unanticipated capital improvements to our hotel properties or other factors, we may be unable to declare or pay distributions to our shareholders. The timing and amount of distributions are in the sole discretion of our board of trustees which will consider, among other factors, our financial performance, any debt service obligations, any debt covenants, and capital expenditure requirements. We cannot assure you that we will generate sufficient cash in order to fund distributions. We may use a portion of the net proceeds from our initial public offering and the concurrent private placement to make distributions to our shareholders, which would, among other things, reduce our cash available to invest in hotel properties and may reduce the returns on your investment in our common shares. Prior to the time we have fully invested the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the concurrent private placement, we may fund distributions to our shareholders out of the net proceeds of these offerings, which would reduce the amount of cash we have available to invest in hotel properties and may reduce the returns on your investment in our common shares. The use of these net proceeds for distributions to shareholders could adversely affect our financial results. In addition, funding distributions from the net proceeds of these offerings may constitute a return of capital to our shareholders, which would have the effect of reducing each shareholder’s tax basis in our common shares. If we cannot obtain financing, our growth will be limited. To qualify for taxation as a REIT, we will be required to distribute at least 90 percent of our REIT taxable income (determined before the deduction for dividends paid and excluding any net capital gains) each year to our shareholders and we generally expect to make distributions in excess of such amount. As a result, our ability to retain earnings to fund acquisitions, redevelopment and development or other capital expenditures will be limited. After investing the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the concurrent private placement, we do not expect to have a significant amount of debt, including debt that may be assumed in connection with a 9 hotel acquisition. Although our business strategy contemplates future access to debt financing (including an anticipated revolving credit facility) to fund acquisitions, redevelopment, development, return on investment initiatives and working capital requirements, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms or at all. Recent events in the financial markets have had an adverse impact on the credit markets and, as a result, credit has become significantly more expensive and difficult to obtain, if available at all. Some lenders are imposing more stringent credit terms, there has been and may continue to be a general reduction in the amount of credit available, and many banks are either unable or unwilling to provide new asset based lending. Tightening credit markets may have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, if at all, thereby increasing financing costs and/or requiring us to accept financing with increasing restrictions. If adverse conditions in the credit markets — in particular with respect to real estate or lodging industry finance — materially deteriorate, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our long-term ability to grow through investments in hotel properties will be limited if we cannot obtain additional financing. Market conditions may make it difficult to obtain financing, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing or that we will be able to obtain it on favorable terms. Future debt service obligations could adversely affect our overall operating results, may require us to sell hotel properties, may jeopardize our qualification as a REIT and could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the market price of our common shares. Our business strategy contemplates the use of both secured and unsecured debt to finance long-term growth. Although we intend to limit the sum of the outstanding principal amount of our consolidated indebtedness and the liquidation preference of any outstanding preferred shares to not more than 4.5x our EBITDA for the 12-month period preceding the incurrence of new debt or the issuance of preferred shares, our board of trustees may modify or eliminate this limitation at any time without the approval of our shareholders. As a result, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt, including secured debt, in the future. Incurring debt could subject us to many risks, including the risks that our cash flow from operations will be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest, our debt may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing cash available for distribution to our shareholders, funds available for operations and capital expenditures, future business opportunities or other purposes, the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of the debt being refinanced, and the use of leverage could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the market price of our common shares. If we violate covenants in future agreements relating to indebtedness that we may incur, we could be required to repay all or a portion of our indebtedness before maturity at a time when we might be unable to arrange financing for such repayment on attractive terms, if at all. In addition, future indebtedness agreements may require that we meet certain covenant tests in order to make distributions to our shareholders. Any joint venture investments that we make could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on co-venturers’ financial condition and disputes between us and our co-venturers. We may co-invest in hotels in the future with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests in or sharing responsibility for a property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. In this event, we would not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. Investments through partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, make dubious business decisions or block or delay necessary decisions. Partners or co-venturers may have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we 10 nor the partner or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Disputes between us and partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or trustees from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, action by, or disputes with, partners or co-venturers might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners or co-venturers. Unanticipated expenses and insufficient demand for hotels in new geographic markets could adversely affect our profitability and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire or develop hotel properties in geographic areas in which our management may have little or no operating experience and in which potential customers may not be familiar with the brand of that particular hotel. As a result, we may have to incur costs relating to the opening, operation and promotion of such hotel properties that are substantially greater than those incurred in other areas. These hotels may attract fewer customers than other hotel properties we may acquire, while at the same time, we may incur substantial additional costs with such hotel properties. Unanticipated expenses and insufficient demand at a new hotel property, therefore, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our conflicts of interest policy may not adequately address all of the conflicts of interest that may arise with respect to our activities. In order to avoid any actual or perceived conflicts of interest with our trustees, officers or employees, we have adopted a conflicts of interest policy to specifically address some of the conflicts relating to our activities. Although under this policy the approval of a majority of our disinterested trustees will be required to approve any transaction, agreement or relationship in which any of our trustees, officers or employees has an interest, there is no assurance that this policy will be adequate to address all of the conflicts that may arise or will address such conflicts in a manner that is favorable to us. We may from time to time make distributions to our shareholders in the form of our common shares which could give rise to non-cash taxable income to our shareholders. To the extent that, in respect of any calendar year, cash available for distribution is less than our REIT taxable income, we could make distributions or a portion of the required distributions in the form of a taxable share distribution or distribution of debt securities and shareholders may recognize non-cash taxable income. In addition, we might be required to sell assets or borrow funds to make distributions. Risks Related to Investments in Mortgage Loans Our strategy of acquiring outstanding debt secured by a hotel or resort property may expose us to risks of costs and delays in acquiring the underlying property. We may consider acquiring outstanding debt secured by a hotel or resort property from lenders and investors if we believe we can ultimately foreclose or otherwise acquire ownership of the underlying property in the near-term through foreclosure, deed-in-lieu of foreclosure or other means. However, if we do acquire such debt, borrowers may seek to assert various defenses to our foreclosure or other actions and we may not be successful in acquiring the underlying property on a timely basis, or at all, in which event we could incur significant costs and experience significant delays in acquiring such properties, all of which could adversely affect our financial performance and reduce our expected returns from such investments. In addition, we may not earn a current return on such investments particularly if the loan that we acquire is in default. 11 Risks Related to the Lodging Industry Current economic conditions may reduce demand for hotel properties and adversely affect hotel profitability. The performance of the lodging industry has historically been closely linked to the performance of the general economy and, specifically, growth in U.S. GDP. It is also sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. Declines in corporate travel budgets and consumer demand due to adverse general economic conditions, such as declines in U.S. GDP, risks affecting or reducing travel patterns, lower consumer confidence or adverse political conditions can lower the revenues and profitability of hotel properties and therefore the net operating profits of our TRS lessees to whom we intend to lease the hotel properties that we expect to acquire. The current global economic downturn has led to a significant decline in demand for products and services provided by the lodging industry, lower occupancy levels and significantly reduced room rates. We anticipate that recovery of demand for products and services provided by the lodging industry will lag improvement in economic conditions. We cannot predict how severe or prolonged the global economic downturn will be or how severe or prolonged the lodging industry downturn will be. After we have invested in one or more hotel properties, a further extended period of economic weakness would likely have an adverse impact on our revenues and negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Our operating results and ability to make distributions to our shareholders may be adversely affected by various operating risks common to the lodging industry. We plan to own hotel properties which have different economic characteristics than many other real estate assets and a hotel REIT is structured differently than many other types of REITs. A typical office property owner, for example, has long-term leases with third-party tenants, which provides a relatively stable long-term stream of revenue. Our TRS lessees, on the other hand, will not enter into a lease with a hotel manager. Instead, our TRS lessees will engage the hotel manager pursuant to a management contract and will pay the manager a fee for managing the hotel. The TRS lessees will receive all the operating profit or losses at the hotel. Moreover, virtually all hotel guests stay at the hotel for only a few nights, so the rate and occupancy at each of our hotels changes every day. As a result, we may have highly volatile earnings. In addition, our hotel properties will be subject to various operating risks common to the lodging industry, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: • competition from other hotel properties in our markets; • over-building of hotels in our markets, which could adversely affect occupancy and revenues at the hotel properties we acquire; • dependence on business and commercial travelers and tourism; • increases in energy costs and other expenses affecting travel, which may affect travel patterns and reduce the number of business and commercial travelers and tourists; • increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors that may not be offset by increased room rates; • changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of debt financing; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; • adverse effects of international, national, regional and local economic and market conditions; • unforeseen events beyond our control, such as terrorist attacks, travel related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as H1N1 influenza (swine flu), avian bird flu and SARS, political instability, regional hostilities, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities, travel related 12 accidents and unusual weather patterns, including natural disasters such as hurricanes, tsunamis or earthquakes; • adverse effects of a downturn in the lodging industry; and • risks generally associated with the ownership of hotel properties and real estate, as we discuss in more detail below. These factors could reduce the net operating profits of our TRS lessees, which in turn could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common shares, and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Competition for acquisitions may reduce the number of properties we can acquire. We expect to compete for investment opportunities with entities that may have substantially greater financial resources than we have. These entities generally may be able to accept more risk than we can prudently manage. This competition may generally limit the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us or the number of properties that we are able to acquire. This competition may also increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell to us, making it more difficult for us to acquire new properties on attractive terms. The seasonality of the lodging industry may cause fluctuations in our quarterly revenues that cause us to borrow money to fund distributions to our shareholders. The lodging industry is seasonal in nature. This seasonality can be expected to cause quarterly fluctuations in our revenues after we have invested in one or more hotel properties. Our quarterly earnings may be adversely affected by factors outside our control, including weather conditions and poor economic factors. As a result, we may have to enter into short-term borrowings in certain quarters in order to offset these fluctuations in revenues and to make distributions to our shareholders. The cyclical nature of the lodging industry may cause the returns from our investments to be less than we expect. The lodging industry is highly cyclical in nature. Fluctuations in lodging demand and, therefore, hotel operating performance, are caused largely by general economic and local market conditions, which subsequently affect levels of business and leisure travel. In addition to general economic conditions, new hotel room supply is an important factor that can affect lodging industry fundamentals, and overbuilding has the potential to further exacerbate the negative impact of an economic recession. Room rates and occupancy, and thus RevPAR, tend to increase when demand growth exceeds supply growth. Although we believe that cyclical supply growth peaked in late 2008 to early 2009, and that lodging demand will begin to rebound in late 2010 to early 2011, no assurances can be given that this will prove to be the case. After we have invested in one or more hotel properties, a continued decline in lodging demand beyond late 2010 to early 2011, or a continued growth in lodging supply, could result in continued deterioration in lodging industry fundamentals and returns that are substantially below expectations, or result in losses, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Due to our expected concentration in hotel investments, a downturn in the lodging industry would adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Our entire business will be hotel-related. Therefore, a downturn in the lodging industry, in general, and the segments and markets in which we operate, in particular, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. 13 Capital expenditure requirements at our properties may be costly and require us to incur debt, postpone improvements, reduce distributions or otherwise adversely affect the results of our operations and the market price of our common shares. Some of the hotel properties we acquire may have a need for renovations and capital improvements at the time of acquisition and all the hotel properties we acquire will have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including replacement, from time to time, of furniture, fixtures and equipment. The franchisors of hotel properties that we acquire will also require periodic capital improvements as a condition to our maintaining the franchise licenses. In addition, if we incur indebtedness, as we intend to do in the future, our lenders will likely require that we set aside annual amounts for capital improvements to our hotel properties. These capital improvements may give rise to the following risks: • possible environmental problems; • construction cost overruns and delays; • the possibility that revenues will be reduced while rooms or restaurants are out of service due to capital improvement projects; • a possible shortage of available cash to fund capital improvements and the related possibility that financing for these capital improvements may not be available to us on attractive terms; and • uncertainties as to market demand or a loss of market demand after capital improvements have begun. The costs of renovations and capital improvements could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Hotel and resort development and redevelopment is subject to timing, budgeting and other risks that may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Though not currently intended to be a primary focus of our initial investment strategy, we may engage in hotel development and redevelopment if suitable opportunities arise. Hotel development and redevelopment involves a number of risks, including risks associated with: • construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs; • the receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; • development costs incurred for projects that are not pursued to completion; • acts of God such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires that could adversely impact a project; • the negative impact of construction on operating performance during and soon after the construction period; • the ability to raise capital; and • governmental restrictions on the nature or size of a project. We cannot assure you that any development or redevelopment project will be completed on time or within budget. Our inability to complete a project on time or within budget could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. The increasing use of Internet travel intermediaries by consumers may reduce our revenues. We expect that some of our hotel rooms will be booked through Internet travel intermediaries, such as Travelocity.com, Expedia.com and Priceline.com. As these Internet bookings increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from 14 the management companies that will operate the hotels we acquire. Moreover, some of these Internet travel intermediaries are attempting to offer hotel rooms as a commodity, by increasing the importance of price and general indicators of quality (such as “three-star downtown hotel”), at the expense of brand identification or quality of product or service. These intermediaries hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their reservations system rather than to lodging brands or properties. If the amount of bookings made through Internet travel intermediaries proves to be more significant than we expect, room revenues may be lower than expected, and our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders may be adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by increased use of business related technology which may reduce the need for business related travel. The increased use of teleconference and video-conference technology by businesses could result in decreased business travel as companies increase the use of technologies that allow multiple parties from different locations to participate at meetings without traveling to a centralized meeting location. To the extent that such technologies play an increased role in day-to-day business and the necessity for business related travel decreases, hotel room demand may decrease and our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders may be adversely affected. Future terrorist attacks or changes in terror alert levels could adversely affect travel and hotel demand. Previous terrorist attacks and subsequent terrorist alerts have adversely affected the U.S. travel and hospitality industries over the past several years, often disproportionately to the effect on the overall economy. The impact that terrorist attacks in the U.S. or elsewhere could have on domestic and international travel and our business in particular cannot be determined but any such attacks or the threat of such attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to finance our business, our ability to insure our properties and our results of operations and financial condition. The outbreak of influenza or other widespread contagious disease could reduce travel and adversely affect hotel demand. The widespread outbreak of infectious or contagious disease in the U.S., such as the H1N1 virus, could reduce travel and adversely affect the hotel industry generally and our business in particular. Uninsured and underinsured losses could result in a loss of capital. We intend to maintain comprehensive insurance on each of our hotel properties, including liability, fire and extended coverage, of the type and amount we believe are customarily obtained for or by hotel owners. There are no assurances that coverage will be available at reasonable rates. Various types of catastrophic losses, like earthquakes and floods, and losses from terrorist activities may not be insurable or may not be economically insurable. Initially, we may not obtain terrorism insurance on the hotel properties we acquire because it is too costly. However, lenders may require such insurance and our failure to obtain such insurance could constitute a default under loan agreements. In the event of a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the full current market value or replacement cost of our lost investment. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a hotel property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might also keep us from using insurance proceeds to replace or renovate a hotel after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under those circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might be inadequate to restore our economic position on the damaged or destroyed property. 15 Our hotels may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities which could cause us to incur substantial costs. The hotel properties that we acquire may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have no recourse, or only limited recourse, against the sellers. In general, the representations and warranties provided under the transaction agreements related to the sales of the hotel properties may not survive the closing of the transactions. While we will likely seek to require the sellers to indemnify us with respect to breaches of representations and warranties that survive, such indemnification may be limited and subject to various materiality thresholds, a significant deductible or an aggregate cap on losses. As a result, there is no guarantee that we will recover any amounts with respect to losses due to breaches by the sellers of their representations and warranties. In addition, the total amount of costs and expenses that may be incurred with respect to liabilities associated with these hotels may exceed our expectations, and we may experience other unanticipated adverse effects, all of which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations could subject us to fines and liabilities which could adversely affect our operating results. Our hotel properties will be subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws. Under these laws, courts and government agencies have the authority to require us, as owner of a contaminated property, to clean up the property, even if we did not know of or were not responsible for the contamination. These laws also apply to persons who owned a property at the time it became contaminated, and therefore it is possible we could incur cleanup costs even after we sell some of the properties we acquire. In addition to the costs of cleanup, environmental contamination can affect the value of a property and, therefore, an owner’s ability to borrow funds using the property as collateral or to sell the property. Under the environmental laws, courts and government agencies also have the authority to require that a person who sent waste to a waste disposal facility, such as a landfill or an incinerator, pay for the clean-up of that facility if it becomes contaminated and threatens human health or the environment. A person that arranges for the disposal or transports for disposal or treatment of a hazardous substance at a property owned by another may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous substances released into the environment at that property. Furthermore, various court decisions have established that third parties may recover damages for injury caused by property contamination. For instance, a person exposed to asbestos while staying in a hotel may seek to recover damages if he or she suffers injury from the asbestos. Lastly, some of these environmental laws restrict the use of a property or place conditions on various activities. An example would be laws that require a business using chemicals (such as swimming pool chemicals at a hotel property) to manage them carefully and to notify local officials that the chemicals are being used. We could be responsible for any of the costs discussed above. The costs to clean up a contaminated property, to defend against a claim, or to comply with environmental laws could be material and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. As a result, we may become subject to material environmental liabilities. We can make no assurances that future laws or regulations will not impose material environmental liabilities or that the current environmental condition of our hotel properties will not be affected by the condition of the properties in the vicinity of our hotel properties (such as the presence of leaking underground storage tanks) or by third parties unrelated to us. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act could require us to incur substantial costs. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA, all public accommodations must meet various federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with the ADA’s requirements could require removal of access barriers, and non-compliance could result in the U.S. government imposing fines or in private litigants winning damages. 16 In June 2008, the Department of Justice proposed a substantial number of changes to the Accessibility Guidelines under the ADA. In January 2009, President Obama suspended final publication and implementation of these regulations, pending a comprehensive review by his administration. If implemented as proposed, the new guidelines could cause some of our hotel properties to incur costly measures to become fully compliant. If we are required to make substantial modifications to our hotel properties, whether to comply with the ADA or other changes in governmental rules and regulations, our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected. General Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to sell hotels or otherwise respond to adverse changes in the performance of our hotel properties. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more hotel properties for reasonable prices in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions will be limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors beyond our control, including: • adverse changes in international, national, regional and local economic and market conditions; • changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of debt financing; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; • the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures; • changes in operating expenses; and • civil unrest, acts of God, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses, and acts of war or terrorism. We may decide to sell hotel properties in the future. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any hotel property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a hotel property. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a hotel property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. In acquiring a hotel property, we may agree to lock-out provisions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of the hotel properties or a need for liquidity could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Increases in property taxes would increase our operating costs, reduce our income, and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Each of our hotel properties will be subject to real and personal property taxes. These taxes may increase as tax rates change and as the properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. If property taxes increase, our financial condition, results of operations, and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders could be materially and adversely affected and the market price of our common shares could decline. 17 The costs of compliance with or liabilities under environmental laws could significantly reduce our profitability. Operating expenses at our hotels could be higher than anticipated due to the cost of complying with existing or future environmental laws and regulations. In addition, an owner of real property can face liability for environmental contamination created by the presence or discharge of hazardous substances on the property. We may face liability regardless of: • our lack of knowledge of the contamination; • the timing of the contamination; • the cause of the contamination; or • the party responsible for the contamination of the property. Environmental laws also impose ongoing compliance requirements on owners and operators of real property. Environmental laws potentially affecting us address a wide variety of matters, including, but not limited to, asbestos-containing building materials, storage tanks, storm water and wastewater discharges, lead-based paint, mold/mildew and hazardous wastes. Failure to comply with these laws could result in fines and penalties and/or expose us to third-party liability. Some of our properties may have conditions that are subject to these requirements, and we could be liable for such fines or penalties and/or liable to third parties, as described below in “Our Business — Governmental Environmental Regulations.” Certain hotel properties we may own in the future may contain, or may have contained, asbestos-containing building materials, or ACBMs. Environmental laws require that ACBMs be properly managed and maintained, and may impose fines and penalties on building owners and operators for failure to comply with these requirements. Also, certain properties may be adjacent or near other properties that have contained or currently contain storage tanks for the storage of petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. These operations create a potential for the release of petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. Third parties may be permitted by law to seek recovery from owners or operators for property damage and/or personal injury associated with exposure to contaminants, including, but not limited to, petroleum products, hazardous or toxic substances and asbestos fibers. Although we expect to obtain ESAs on hotel properties we acquire in the future, ESAs are intended to evaluate information regarding the environmental condition of the surveyed property and surrounding properties based generally on visual observations, interviews and certain publicly available databases. These assessments do not typically take into account all environmental issues including, but not limited to, testing of soil or groundwater or the possible presence of asbestos, lead-based paint, radon, wetlands or mold. As a result, these assessments may fail to reveal all environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns. Material environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns may arise after the ESAs; and future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material additional environmental liability. We cannot assure you that costs of future environmental compliance will not affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders or that such costs or other remedial measures will not be material to us. The presence of hazardous substances on a property may limit our ability to sell the property on favorable terms or at all, and we may incur substantial remediation costs. The discovery of material environmental liabilities at our properties could subject us to unanticipated significant costs, which could significantly reduce our profitability and the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Our properties may contain or develop harmful mold, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing as exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. Some of the properties in our portfolio may contain microbial matter such as mold and mildew. The 18 presence of significant mold at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected property. The presence of significant mold could expose us to liability from hotel guests, hotel employees and others if property damage or health concerns arise. Any mortgage debt obligations we incur will expose us to increased risk of property losses to foreclosure, which could adversely affect our financial condition, cash flow and ability to satisfy our other debt obligations and make distributions to our shareholders. Incurring mortgage debt increases our risk of property losses, because any defaults on indebtedness secured by properties may result in foreclosure actions initiated by lenders and ultimately our loss of the property securing the loan for which we are in default. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure but would not receive any cash proceeds. As a result, we may be required to identify and utilize other sources of cash for distributions to our shareholders of that income. In addition, any default under our mortgage debt obligations may increase the risk of our default on other indebtedness. If this occurs, our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders may be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Provisions of our declaration of trust may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us by authorizing our board of trustees to authorize issuances of additional securities. Our declaration of trust authorizes our board of trustees to issue up to 500,000,000 common shares and up to 100,000,000 preferred shares. In addition, our board of trustees may, without shareholder approval, amend our declaration of trust to increase the aggregate number of our shares or the number of shares of any class or series that we have the authority to issue and to classify or reclassify any unissued common shares or preferred shares and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our board of trustees may authorize the issuance of additional shares or establish a series of common or preferred shares that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company, including transactions at a premium over the market price of our shares, even if shareholders believe that a change of control is in their interest. Provisions of Maryland law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us by requiring our board of trustees or shareholders to approve proposals to acquire our company or effect a change of control. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, applicable to Maryland real estate investment trusts may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our common shareholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares, including: • “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested shareholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10 percent or more of the voting power of our shares) or an affiliate of any interested shareholder for five years after the most recent date on which the shareholder becomes an interested shareholder, and thereafter imposes special appraisal rights and special shareholder voting requirements on these combinations; and • “control share” provisions that provide that our “control shares” (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the shareholder, entitle the shareholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing trustees) acquired in a “control share acquisition” 19 (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. By resolution of our board of trustees, we have opted out of the business combination provisions of the MGCL and provided that any business combination between us and any other person is exempt from the business combination provisions of the MGCL, provided that the business combination is first approved by our board of trustees (including a majority of trustees who are not affiliates or associates of such persons). Pursuant to a provision in our bylaws, we have opted out of the control share provisions of the MGCL. However, our board of trustees may by resolution elect to opt in to the business combination provisions of the MGCL and we may, by amendment to our bylaws, opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future. Additionally, Title 8, Subtitle 3 of the MGCL permits our board of trustees, without shareholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our declaration of trust or bylaws, to implement certain takeover defenses, such as a classified board, some of which we do not yet have. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us under the circumstances that otherwise could provide our common shareholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price. The ownership limitations in our declaration of trust may restrict or prevent shareholders from engaging in certain transfers of our common shares. In order for us to qualify as a REIT for each taxable year after 2009, no more than 50 percent in value of our outstanding shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the federal income tax laws to include various kinds of entities) during the last half of any taxable year. To assist us in qualifying as a REIT, our declaration of trust contains a share ownership limit. Generally, any of our shares owned by affiliated owners will be added together for purposes of the share ownership limit. If anyone transfers shares in a way that would violate the share ownership limit or prevent us from qualifying as a REIT under the federal income tax laws, those shares instead will be transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary and will be either redeemed by us or sold to a person whose ownership of the shares will not violate the share ownership limit or we will consider the transfer to be null and void from the outset, and the intended transferee of those shares will be deemed never to have owned the shares. Anyone who acquires shares in violation of the share ownership limit or the other restrictions on transfer in our declaration of trust bears the risk of suffering a financial loss when the shares are redeemed or sold if the market price of our shares falls between the date of purchase and the date of redemption or sale. In addition, these ownership limitations may prevent an acquisition of control of us by a third party without our board of trustees’ approval, even if our shareholders believe the change of control is in their interest. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our trustees and officers are limited, which could limit shareholders’ recourse in the event of actions not in their best interests. Under Maryland law, generally, a trustee’s actions will be upheld if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. In addition, our declaration of trust limits the liability of our trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or • active and deliberate dishonesty by the trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. 20 Our declaration of trust authorizes us to indemnify our trustees and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Our bylaws require us to indemnify each trustee or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our trustees and officers. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the current provisions in our declaration of trust and bylaws or that might exist with other companies. Our declaration of trust contains provisions that make removal of our trustees difficult, which could make it difficult for our shareholders to effect changes to our management. Our declaration of trust provides that a trustee may be removed only for cause (as defined in our declaration of trust) and then only by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of trustees. Our declaration of trust also provides that vacancies on our board of trustees may be filled only by a majority of the remaining trustees in office, even if less than a quorum. These requirements prevent shareholders from removing trustees except for cause and with a substantial affirmative vote and from replacing trustees with their own nominees and may prevent a change in control of our company that is in the best interests of our shareholders. The ability of our board of trustees to change our major policies without the consent of shareholders may not be in shareholders’ interest. Our board of trustees determines our major policies, including policies and guidelines relating to our acquisitions, leverage, financing, growth, operations and distributions to shareholders. Our board may amend or revise these and other policies and guidelines from time to time without the vote or consent of our shareholders. Accordingly, our shareholders will have limited control over changes in our policies and those changes could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We have entered into agreements with each of our executive officers that requires us to make payments in the event the officer’s employment is terminated by us without cause, by the officer for good reason or under certain circumstances following a change of control of our company. The agreements that we have entered into with our executive officers provide benefits under certain circumstances that could make it more difficult for us to terminate these officers and may prevent or deter a change of control of our company that would otherwise be in the interest of our shareholders. If we fail to implement and maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately determine our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, our shareholders could lose confidence in our financial results, which could harm our business and the value of our common shares. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We are a newly formed company that will develop financial and operational reporting and control systems. We may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate and report on our internal controls over financial reporting and have our independent auditors annually issue their own opinion on our internal controls over financial reporting. While we intend to undertake substantial work to prepare for compliance with Section 404, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in implementing or maintaining adequate internal controls over our financial reporting and financial processes. Furthermore, as we grow our business, our internal controls will become more complex, and we will require significantly more resources to ensure our internal controls remain effective. If we or our independent auditors discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market value of our common shares. Additionally, the existence of any material weakness or significant deficiency would require management to devote significant time and incur significant expense to remediate any such material weaknesses or significant deficiencies and 21 management may not be able to remediate any such material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in a timely manner. Tax Risk Factors If we fail to qualify, or to remain qualified, as a REIT would result in higher taxes and reduced cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We intend to elect to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, commencing with our short taxable year ending December 31, 2009 upon the filing of our federal income tax return for that year. However, qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code, for which only a limited number of judicial and administrative interpretations exist. Even an inadvertent or technical mistake could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Our qualification as a REIT depends on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, shareholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. Moreover, new tax legislation, administrative guidance or court decisions, in each instance potentially applicable with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to shareholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of our shares. If, for any reason, we failed to qualify as a REIT and we were not entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, we would be unable to elect REIT status for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to so qualify which would negatively impact the value of our common shares. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. To qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our shareholders each calendar year at least 90 percent of our REIT taxable income (including certain items of non-cash income), determined before the deduction for dividends paid and excluding any net capital gain. To the extent that we satisfy the 90 percent distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100 percent of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we will incur a 4 percent nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any calendar year are less than the sum of: • 85 percent of our REIT ordinary income for that year; • 95 percent of our REIT capital gain net income for that year; and • any undistributed REIT taxable income from prior years. We intend to distribute our REIT taxable income to our shareholders in a manner intended to satisfy the 90 percent distribution requirement and to avoid both corporate income tax and the 4 percent nondeductible excise tax. However, there is no requirement that TRSs distribute their after tax net income to their parent REIT or their shareholders. Our REIT taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as determined based on GAAP, because, for example, realized capital losses will be deducted in determining our GAAP net income, but may not be deductible in computing our REIT taxable income. Differences in timing between the recognition of income and the related cash receipts or the effect of required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow money or sell properties at prices or at times that we regard as unfavorable in order to pay out enough of our REIT taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4 percent nondeductible excise tax in a particular year. 22 Under recently issued Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, guidance, we may pay taxable dividends of our common shares and cash, in which case shareholders may sell our common shares to pay tax on such dividends, placing downward pressure on the market price of our common shares. Under recently issued IRS guidance, we may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash and common shares at the election of each shareholder. Under Revenue Procedure 2010-12, up to 90 percent of any such taxable dividend paid with respect to our 2010 and 2011 taxable years could be payable in our common shares. Taxable shareholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for federal income tax purposes. As a result, shareholders may be required to pay income tax with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. If a U.S. shareholder sells the common shares that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our common shares at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to certain non-U.S. shareholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. federal income tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in common shares. If we utilize Revenue Procedure 2010-12 and a significant number of our shareholders determine to sell our common shares in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our common shares. The formation of our TRS lessees increases our overall tax liability. Our TRS lessees will be subject to federal and state income tax on their taxable income, which will consist of the revenues from the hotel properties leased by our TRS lessees, net of the operating expenses for such hotel properties and rent payments to us. Accordingly, although our ownership of our TRS lessees will allow us to participate in the operating income from our hotel properties in addition to receiving rent, that operating income will be fully subject to income tax. The after-tax net income of our TRS lessees is available for distribution to us. Our ownership of our TRS lessees is limited and our transactions with our TRS lessees will cause us to be subject to a 100 percent penalty tax on certain income or deductions if those transactions are not conducted on arm’s-length terms. A REIT may own up to 100 percent of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT, including gross operating income from hotel operations pursuant to hotel management contracts. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35 percent of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 25 percent of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100 percent excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. Our TRS lessees are subject to applicable federal, foreign, state and local income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income will be available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed to us. We anticipate that the aggregate value of the stock and securities of our TRS lessees will be less than 25 percent of the value of our total assets (including our TRS lessees’ stock and securities). Furthermore, we will monitor the value of our respective investments in our TRS lessees for the purpose of ensuring compliance with TRS ownership limitations. In addition, we will scrutinize all of our transactions with our TRS lessees to ensure that they are entered into on arm’s-length terms to avoid incurring the 100 percent excise tax described above. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 25 percent limitation discussed above or to avoid application of the 100 percent excise tax discussed above. 23 If the leases of our hotel properties to our TRS lessees are not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT and would be subject to higher taxes and have less cash available for distribution to our shareholders. To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy two gross income tests, under which specified percentages of our gross income must be derived from certain sources, such as “rents from real property.” Rents paid to our operating partnership by our TRS lessees pursuant to the lease of our hotel properties will constitute substantially all of our gross income. In order for such rent to qualify as “rents from real property” for purposes of the gross income tests, the leases must be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes and not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. If our leases are not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT. If our operating partnership failed to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, we would cease to qualify as a REIT and would be subject to higher taxes and have less cash available for distribution to our shareholders and suffer other adverse consequences. We believe that our operating partnership qualifies to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, our operating partnership is not subject to federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of its partners, including us, is required to pay tax on its allocable share of the operating partnership’s income. No assurance can be provided, however, that the IRS will not challenge its status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating our operating partnership as a corporation for tax purposes, we would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, cease to qualify as a REIT. Also, the failure of our operating partnership to qualify as a partnership would cause it to become subject to federal and state corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including us. If our hotel managers do not qualify as “eligible independent contractors,” we would fail to qualify as a REIT and would be subject to higher taxes and have less cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Rent paid by a lessee that is a “related party tenant” of ours will not be qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs. We expect to lease substantially all of our hotels to our TRS lessees. So long as any TRS lessee qualifies as a TRS, it will not be treated as a “related party tenant” with respect to our properties that are managed by an independent hotel management company that qualifies as an “eligible independent contractor.” We believe that our TRSs will qualify to be treated as TRSs for federal income tax purposes, but there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge the status of a TRS for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in disqualifying any of our TRSs lessees from treatment as a TRS, it is possible that we would fail to meet the asset tests applicable to REITs and substantially all of our income would fail to qualify for the gross income tests. If we failed to meet either the asset or gross income tests, we would likely lose our REIT qualification for federal income tax purposes. Additionally, if our hotel managers do not qualify as “eligible independent contractors,” we would fail to qualify as a REIT. Each of the hotel management companies that enter into a management contract with our TRS lessees must qualify as an “eligible independent contractor” under the REIT rules in order for the rent paid to us by our TRS lessees to be qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. Among other requirements, in order to qualify as an eligible independent contractor a manager must not own, directly or through its shareholders, more than 35 percent of our outstanding shares, taking into account certain ownership attribution rules. The ownership attribution rules that apply for purposes of these 35 percent thresholds are complex. Although we intend to monitor ownership of our shares by our hotel managers and their owners, there can be no assurance that these ownership levels will not be exceeded. 24 Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. The maximum tax rate applicable to income from “qualified dividends” payable to U.S. shareholders that are individuals, trusts and estates has been reduced by legislation to 15 percent (through the end of 2010). Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our common shares. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge our liabilities effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities. The REIT provisions of the Code substantially limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. Any income from a hedging transaction we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes, price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets does not constitute “gross income” for purposes of the 75 percent or 95 percent gross income tests. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our TRS would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in our TRSs will generally not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward against future taxable income in the TRSs. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive business opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our shareholders and the ownership of our shares. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego investments we might otherwise make. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our performance. In particular, we must ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75 percent of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10 percent of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10 percent of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5 percent of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25 percent of the value of our total assets can be represented by the securities of one or more TRSs. The Code provides that temporary investments of new capital in stock or debt instruments for the period of one year beginning on the date on which we receive the new capital will be considered qualified real estate assets for purposes of the above requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. 25 The ability of our board of trustees to revoke our REIT qualification without shareholder approval may subject us to federal and state income tax and reduce distributions to our shareholders. Our declaration of trust provides that our board of trustees may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our shareholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to be a REIT, we would become subject to federal income tax on our taxable income and would no longer be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our shareholders, which may have adverse consequences on our total return to our shareholders and on the market price of our common shares. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could increase our tax liability, reduce our operating flexibility and reduce the market price of our common shares. At any time, the federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative and judicial interpretations of those laws may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new federal income tax law, regulation, or administrative and judicial interpretation, or any amendment to any existing federal income tax law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation, or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our shareholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, federal income tax law, regulation or administrative and judicial interpretation. The share ownership restrictions of the Code for REITs and the 9.8 percent share ownership limit in our declaration of trust may inhibit market activity in our shares and restrict our business combination opportunities. In order to qualify as a REIT for each taxable year after 2009, five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Code, may not own, actually or constructively, more than 50 percent in value of our issued and outstanding shares at any time during the last half of a taxable year. Attribution rules in the Code determine if any individual or entity actually or constructively owns our shares under this requirement. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our shares during at least 335 days of a taxable year for each taxable year after 2009. To help insure that we meet these tests, our declaration of trust restricts the acquisition and ownership of our shares. Our declaration of trust, with certain exceptions, authorizes our trustees to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of trustees, our declaration of trust prohibits any person from beneficially or constructively owning more than 9.8 percent (measured by value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of any class or series of our shares. Our board of trustees may not grant an exemption from these restrictions to any proposed transferee whose ownership in excess of 9.8 percent of the value of our outstanding shares would result in the termination of our qualification as a REIT. These restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply, however, if our board of trustees determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. These ownership limits could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common shares or otherwise be in the best interest of the shareholders. If states and localities in which we own material amounts of property or conduct material amounts of business raise their income and property tax rates or amend their tax regimes in a manner that increases our state and local tax liabilities, we would have less cash available for distribution to our shareholders and the market price of our common shares could be adversely affected. We and our subsidiaries may be subject to income tax by states and localities in which we conduct business. Additionally, we will be subject to property taxes in states and localities in which we own property, and our TRS lessees will be subject to state and local corporate income tax. Many states and localities are currently financially distressed as a result of the recent recession. As these states and localities seek additional sources of revenue to reduce budget deficits and otherwise improve their financial condition, they may, among other steps, raise income and property tax rates and/or amend their tax regimes to eliminate for state income 26 tax purposes the favorable tax treatment REITs enjoy for federal income tax purposes. We cannot predict when or if any states or localities would make any such changes, or what form those changes would take. If states and localities in which we own material amounts of property or conduct material amounts of business make changes to their tax rates or tax regimes that increase our state and local tax liabilities, such increases would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 