Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks. These risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our common stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. These risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under "Forward-Looking Statements" and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this Report. Risk factors related to our business and industry Demand for our products is significantly affected by unpredictable major power-outage events that can lead to substantial variations in, and uncertainties regarding, our financial results from period to period. Sales of our products are subject to consumer buying patterns, and demand for our products is affected by outage events, including thunderstorms, hurricanes, ice storms and blackouts caused by grid reliability issues. Sustained periods without major power disruptions can lead to reduced consumer awareness of the benefits of standby and portable generator products and can result in reduced sales and excess inventory. For example, in 2007, our net sales declined significantly from the prior year, which was driven in part by the fact that the storm seasons in the two years leading up to and including 9 Table of Contents 2007 resulted in fewer power outages than in the prior years. The lack of major power-outage events can affect our net sales in the quarters following a given storm season. Unpredictable fluctuations in demand are therefore part of managing our business, and these fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our net sales and profits. Demand for our standby generators is significantly affected by durable goods spending by consumers and businesses and other macroeconomic conditions. Our business is affected by general economic conditions, and uncertainty or adverse changes such as the recent downturn in worldwide economic conditions and the impact of the credit crisis could lead to a significant decline in demand for our products and pressure to reduce our prices. Our sales of light-commercial and industrial generators are affected by conditions in the non-residential construction sector and by the capital investment trends for small and large businesses and municipalities. For example, lower capital spending by our industrial national accounts and other industrial and commercial customers caused a 9.9% decline in net sales to the industrial and commercial market in the year ended December 31, 2009. If these businesses and municipalities cannot access credit markets or do not utilize discretionary funds to purchase our products as a result of the economy or other factors, our business could suffer and our ability to realize benefits from our strategy of increasing sales in the light-commercial and industrial sectors through, among other things, our focus on innovation and product development, including natural gas engine technology, could be adversely affected. In addition, consumer confidence and home remodeling expenditures have a significant impact on sales of our residential products, and prolonged periods of weakness in consumer durable goods spending could have a material impact on our business. Typically, we do not have contracts with our customers, and we cannot guarantee that our current customers will continue to purchase our products. If general economic conditions or consumer confidence were to worsen, or if the non-residential construction sector or rate of capital investments were to continue to decline, our net sales and profits would likely be adversely affected. Decreases in the availability, or increases in the cost, of raw materials and key components we use could materially reduce our earnings. The principal raw materials that we use to produce our generators are steel, copper and aluminum. We also source a significant number of component parts that we utilize to manufacture our generators from third parties. The prices of those raw materials and components are susceptible to significant fluctuations due to trends in supply and demand, transportation costs, government regulations and tariffs, price controls, economic conditions and other unforeseen circumstances beyond our control. We do not have long-term supply contracts in place to ensure the raw materials and components we use are available in necessary amounts or at fixed prices. If we are unable to mitigate raw material or component price increases through product design improvements, price increases to our customers or hedging transactions, our profitability could be adversely affected. For example, in 2008, we experienced a 4.8% decrease in gross margin percentage, partially due to increases in commodity prices, including steel, copper and aluminum. Also, our ability to continue to obtain materials and components is subject to the continued reliability and viability of our suppliers, including in some cases, suppliers who are the sole source of important components. If we are unable to obtain adequate, cost efficient or timely deliveries of required raw materials and components, we may be unable to manufacture sufficient quantities of products on a timely basis. This could cause us to lose sales, incur additional costs, delay new product introductions or suffer harm to our reputation. 10 Table of Contents The industry in which we compete is highly competitive, and our failure to compete successfully could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in markets that are highly competitive. Some of our competitors have established brands and are larger in size or are divisions of large diversified companies and have substantially greater financial resources. Some of our competitors may be willing to reduce prices and accept lower margins in order to compete with us. In addition, we could face new competition from large international or domestic companies with established industrial brands that enter the generator market. Demand for our products may also be affected by our ability to respond to changes in design and functionality, to respond to downward pricing pressure, and to provide shorter lead times for our products than our competitors. If we are unable to respond successfully to these competitive pressures, we could lose market share, which could have an adverse impact on our results. For more information, see "Item 1—Business—Competition." Our industry is subject to technological change, and our failure to continue developing new and improved products and to bring these products rapidly to market could have an adverse impact on our business. New products, or refinements and improvements of existing products, may have technical failures, their introduction may be delayed, they may have higher production costs than originally expected or they may not be accepted by our customers. If we are not able to anticipate, identify, develop and market high quality products in line with technological advancements that respond to changes in customer preferences, demand for our products could decline and our operating results could be adversely affected. We rely on independent dealers and distribution partners, and the loss of these dealers and distribution partners, or of any of our sales arrangements with significant private label, telecommunications or retail customers, would adversely affect our business. In addition to our direct sales force and manufacturer sales representatives, we depend on the services of independent distributors and dealers to sell our products and provide service and aftermarket support to our customers. We also rely upon our distribution channels to drive awareness for our product categories and our brands. In addition, we sell our products to end users through private label arrangements with leading HVAC equipment, electrical equipment and construction machinery companies, arrangements with top retailers and our direct national accounts with telecommunications and industrial customers. Our distribution agreements and any contracts we have with large telecommunications, retail and other customers are typically not exclusive, and many of the distributors and customers with whom we do business offer products and services of our competitors. Impairment of our relationships with our distributors, dealers or large customers, loss of a substantial number of these distributors or dealers or of one or more large customers, or an increase in our distributors' or dealers' sales of our competitors' products to our customers or of our large customers' purchases of our competitors' products could materially reduce our sales and profits. Also, our ability to successfully realize our growth strategy is dependent in part on our ability to identify, attract and retain new distributors at all layers of our distribution platform, and we cannot be certain that we will be successful in these efforts. Our business could be negatively impacted if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or if third parties claim that we are in violation of their intellectual property rights. We view our intellectual property rights, including those relating to our Generac® brand name, fuel management systems and MPS technology, as important assets. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing and confidentiality agreements. These protections may not be adequate to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without our authorization, breaching any confidentiality 11 Table of Contents agreements with us, copying or reverse engineering our products, or developing and marketing products that are substantially equivalent to or superior to our own. The unauthorized use of our intellectual property by others could reduce our competitive advantage and harm our business. If it became necessary for us to litigate to protect these rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly and we may not prevail. We cannot guarantee that any patents, issued or pending, will provide us with any competitive advantage or will not be challenged by third parties. Moreover, the expiration of our patents may lead to increased competition with respect to certain products. In addition, we cannot be certain that we do not or will not infringe third parties' intellectual property rights. Any such claim, even if it is without merit, may be expensive and time-consuming to defend, subject us to damages, cause us to cease making, using or selling certain products that incorporate the disputed intellectual property, require us to redesign our products, divert management time and attention and/or require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing arrangements. Furthermore, in connection with our sale of Generac Portable Products to the Beacon Group in 1998, we granted the Beacon Group an exclusive perpetual license for the use of the "Generac Portable Products" trademark in connection with the manufacture and sale of certain engine driven consumer products. This perpetual license was eventually transferred to Briggs and Stratton (Briggs) when the Beacon Group sold that business to Briggs. Currently, this trademark is not being used in commerce. However, in the event that the Beacon Group or Briggs use this trademark in the future, we could suffer competitive confusion and our business could be negatively impacted. Our operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and non-compliance with or liabilities under such laws and regulations could result in substantial costs, fines, sanctions and claims. Our operations are subject to a variety of foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations including those governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharges to water, noise, the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste and other materials. In addition, under federal and state environmental laws, we could be required to investigate, remediate and/or monitor the effects of the release or disposal of materials both at sites associated with past and present operations and at third-party sites where wastes generated by our operations were disposed. This liability may be imposed retroactively and whether or not we caused, or had any knowledge of, the existence of these materials and may result in our paying more than our fair share of the related costs. Violations of or liabilities under such laws and regulations could result in substantial costs, fines and civil or criminal proceedings or personal injury and workers' compensation claims. Our products are subject to substantial government regulation. Our products are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory requirements governing, among other things, emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the federal Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, state regulatory agencies, such as the California Air Resources Board, or CARB, and other regulatory agencies around the world. These laws are constantly evolving and many are becoming increasingly stringent. Changes in applicable laws or regulations, or in the enforcement thereof, could require us to redesign our products and could adversely affect our business or financial condition in the future. Developing and marketing products to meet such new requirements could result in substantial additional costs that may be difficult to recover in some markets. In some cases, we may be required to modify our projects or develop new products to comply with new regulations, particularly those relating to air emissions. For example, we were required to modify our natural gas and liquid propane-fueled liquid-cooled engines and generators by January 1, 2009 to comply with emissions standards in the United States. While we have been able to meet previous deadlines, failure to comply with other existing and future regulatory standards could adversely affect our position in the markets we serve. 12 Table of Contents We may incur costs and liabilities as a result of product liability claims. We face a risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury or other damage. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance coverage, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, or obtain insurance that will provide adequate coverage against potential claims. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for long periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful product liability defense could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, we believe our business depends on the strong brand reputation we have developed. If our reputation is damaged, we may face difficulty in maintaining our market share and pricing with respect to some of our products, which could reduce our sales and profitability. The loss of any key members of our senior management team or key employees could disrupt our operations and harm our business. Our success depends, in part, on the efforts of certain key individuals, including the members of our senior management team, who have significant experience in the generator industry. If, for any reason, our senior executives do not continue to be active in management, or if our key employees leave our company, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Failure to continue to attract these individuals at reasonable compensation levels could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and results of operations. Although we do not anticipate that we will have to replace any of these individuals in the near future, the loss of the services of any of our key employees could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. Disruptions caused by labor disputes or organized labor activities could harm our business. Currently, 2% of our workforce is a member of a labor union. In addition, we may from time to time experience union organizing activities in our non-union facilities. Disputes with the current labor union or new union organizing activities could lead to work slowdowns or stoppages and make it difficult or impossible for us to meet scheduled delivery times for product shipments to our customers, which could result in loss of business. In addition, union activity could result in higher labor costs, which could harm our financial condition, results of operations and competitive position. We may experience material disruptions to our manufacturing operations. While we seek to operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities, a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our financial results. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: •equipment or information technology infrastructure failure; •disruptions in the transportation infrastructure including roads, bridges, railroad tracks; •fires, floods, earthquakes, or other catastrophes; and •other operational problems. In addition, all of our manufacturing and production facilities are located in Wisconsin within a 30-mile radius. We could experience prolonged periods of reduced production due to unforeseen events occurring in or around our manufacturing facilities in Wisconsin. In the event of a business interruption 13 Table of Contents at our Wisconsin facilities, we may be unable to shift manufacturing capabilities to alternate locations, accept materials from suppliers or meet customer shipment needs, among other severe consequences. Such an event could have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and results of our operations. A significant portion of our purchased components are sourced in foreign countries, exposing us to additional risks that may not exist in the United States. We source a significant portion of our purchased components overseas, primarily in Asia. Our international sourcing subjects us to a number of potential risks in addition to the risks associated with third-party sourcing generally. Such risks include: •inflation or changes in political and economic conditions; •unstable regulatory environments; •changes in import and export duties; •domestic and foreign customs and tariffs; •currency rate fluctuations; •trade restrictions; •labor unrest; •logistical and communications challenges; and •other restraints and burdensome taxes. These factors may have an adverse effect on our ability to source our purchased components overseas. In particular, if the U.S. dollar were to depreciate significantly against the currencies in which we purchase raw materials from foreign suppliers, our cost of goods sold could increase materially, which would adversely affect our results of operations. As a U.S. corporation that sources components in foreign countries, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. A determination that we violated this act may affect our business and operations adversely. As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the regulations imposed by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. We have significant tax assets, usage of which may be subject to limitations in the future. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $161.8 million of net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Any subsequent accumulations of common stock ownership leading to a change of control under Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, including through sales of stock by large stockholders, all of which are out of our control, could limit our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future federal income tax liabilities. 14 Table of Contents Our total assets include goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangibles. If we determine these have become impaired in the future, net income could be materially adversely affected. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. Indefinite-lived intangibles are comprised of certain trade names. At December 31, 2009, goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangibles totaled $665.9 million, most of which arose from the CCMP Transactions. We review goodwill and other intangibles at least annually for impairment and any excess in carrying value over the estimated fair value is charged to the results of operations. A reduction in net income resulting from the write-down or impairment of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangibles could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. For example, in October 2008, due to an increase in our weighted average cost of capital and lower comparable public company market values resulting from weakening economic conditions, we determined that an impairment of goodwill existed and recorded a non-cash charge of $503.2 million in 2008. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition. In accordance with FASB ASC (Accounting Standards Codification) Topic 350-20, goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles are reviewed at least annually for impairment and definite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Future impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of the acquired business or product line, adverse market conditions and changes in the competitive landscape, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business or product line, and a variety of other circumstances. The amount of any impairment is recorded as a charge to the statement of operations. We may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of intangible assets would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for details. We may need additional capital to finance our growth strategy or to refinance our existing credit facilities, and we may not be able to obtain it on acceptable terms, or at all, which may limit our ability to grow. We may require additional financing to expand our business. Financing may not be available to us or may be available to us only on terms that are not favorable. The terms of our senior secured credit facilities limit our ability to incur additional debt. In addition, economic conditions, including any further downturn or crisis in the credit markets, could impact our ability to finance our growth on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds or obtain capital on acceptable terms, we may have to delay, modify or abandon some or all of our growth strategies. Our revolving credit facility matures in November 2012 and our first lien term loan facility matures in November 2013. If we are unable to refinance these facilities on acceptable terms, our liquidity could be adversely affected. We are unable to determine the specific impact of changes in selling prices or changes in volumes of our products on our net sales. Because of the wide range of products that we sell, the level of customization for many of our products, the frequent rollout of new products and the fact that we do not apply pricing changes uniformly across our entire portfolio of products, we are unable to determine with specificity the effect of volume changes or changes in selling prices on our net sales. 15 Table of Contents Risks related to our common stock We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future on our common stock. We intend to retain all future earnings for the operation and expansion of our business and the repayment of outstanding debt. In addition, the terms of our senior secured credit facilities limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be stockholders' sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. While we may change this policy at some point in the future, we cannot assure stockholders that we will make such a change. See "Item 5—Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities—Dividends." Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. If our stockholders prior to the initial public offering sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decline. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell additional equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of March 29, 2010, we have 67,529,290 shares of our common stock outstanding. Subject to lock-up agreements entered into in connection with our initial public offering, 46,372,541 restricted securities may be sold into the public market in the future without registration under the Securities Act to the extent permitted under Rule 144. All of these restricted securities will be eligible for sale under Rule 144 following expiration of the lock-up agreements described above subject to limitations on sales by affiliates. In addition, commencing 180 days after the date of our initial public offering (i.e., August 9, 2010), certain stockholders holding 45,509,752 outstanding shares of these restricted securities will have registration rights which could allow those holders to sell their shares freely through a future registration statement filed under the Securities Act. In addition, we filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register an aggregate of 6,637,835 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance under our Omnibus Plan, including an aggregate of 4,797,753 shares that were granted as non-vested (restricted) stock, shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options and shares granted to directors in connection with our initial public offering. We may increase the number of shares registered for this purpose at any time. Subject to any restrictions imposed on the restricted shares and options granted under our Omnibus Plan, shares registered under the registration statement on Form S-8 will be available for sale into the public markets subject to the 180-day lock-up agreements referred to above. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our common stock or if our results of operations do not meet their expectations, our common stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade recommendations regarding our stock, or if our results of operations do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline and such decline could be material. 16 Table of Contents As a public company, we are required to meet periodic reporting requirements under the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, rules and regulations. Complying with federal securities laws as a public company is expensive and we will incur significant time and expense enhancing, documenting, testing and certifying our internal control over financial reporting. Any deficiencies in our financial reporting or internal controls could adversely affect our business and the trading price of our common stock. SEC rules require that, as a publicly-traded company, we file periodic reports containing our financial statements within a specified time following the completion of quarterly and annual periods. Prior to our initial public offering, we had not been required to comply with SEC requirements to have our financial statements completed and reviewed or audited within a specified time and, as such, we may experience difficulty in meeting the SEC's reporting requirements. Any failure by us to file our periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner could harm our reputation and reduce the trading price of our common stock. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as compliance with other rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Furthermore, SEC rules require that our chief executive officer and chief financial officer periodically certify the existence and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm will be required, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending on December 31, 2010, to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This process, which we have not undertaken in the past, will require significant documentation of policies, procedures and systems, review of that documentation by our internal accounting staff and our outside auditors and testing of our internal control over financial reporting by our internal accounting staff. This process will involve considerable time and expense, may strain our internal resources and have an adverse impact on our operating costs. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses and outside auditor fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies that would have to be remediated to satisfy the SEC rules for certification of our effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. As a consequence, we may have to disclose in periodic reports we file with the SEC material weaknesses in our system of internal controls. The existence of a material weakness would preclude management from concluding that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and would preclude our independent auditors from issuing an unqualified opinion that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. In addition, disclosures of this type in our SEC reports could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting, it may negatively impact our business, results of operations and reputation. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws could prohibit a change of control that our stockholders may favor and could negatively affect our stock price. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire control of us even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. These provisions could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These provisions may also 17 Table of Contents prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws: •permit our board of directors to issue preferred stock with such terms as they determine, without stockholder approval; •provide that only one-third of the members of the board are elected at each stockholders meeting and prohibit removal without cause; •require advance notice for stockholder proposals and director nominations; and •contain limitations on convening stockholder meetings. These provisions make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to acquire us without negotiation and could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Risks related to our capital structure We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our indebtedness. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, we had total indebtedness of $1,091.5 million. While we reduced this amount of debt after December 31, 2009 through the use of the proceeds of our IPO and of cash on hand (as discussed elsewhere in this report under "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"), we still have a substantial amount of indebtedness. After the repayment of debt using the proceeds of the IPO and available cash on-hand, we had total indebtedness of $731.4 million as of March 19, 2010. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness, combined with our lease and other financial obligations and contractual commitments could have other important consequences. For example, it could: •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, including financial and other restrictive covenants, which could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness; •make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and •limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes. Any of the above-listed factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, our interest expense could increase if interest rates increase because debt under our senior secured credit facilities bears interest at a variable rate. If we do not have sufficient earnings to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. 18 Table of Contents The terms of our senior secured credit facilities restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions. Our senior secured credit facilities contain, and any future indebtedness of ours or our subsidiaries would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, including restrictions on our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best long-term interests. Our senior secured credit facilities include a financial covenant that requires us not to exceed a maximum total leverage ratio. As of December 31, 2009, Generac Power Systems was required to maintain a maximum leverage ratio of 6.75 to 1.00 and 7.00 to 1.00 under the first and second lien credit facilities, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, Generac Power Systems' leverage ratio was 5.99 to 1.00 (prior to giving effect to the reduction of debt through the use of proceeds of our IPO and application of cash on hand, each of which took place after December 31, 2009 and are discussed in this report under "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"). After giving effect to the reduction of debt using the proceeds from the IPO and available cash on-hand, Generac Power Systems' leverage ratio was 4.59 pro forma as of December 31, 2009. The maximum leverage ratio decreases over time under both facilities. The more restrictive of the facilities is the first lien credit facility, which requires Generac Power Systems to have a leverage ratio of no greater than 6.75 to 1.00 in the fourth quarter of 2009 and in the first quarter of 2010, 6.50 to 1.00 in the second quarter of 2010, 6.25 to 1.00 in the third quarter of 2010, 5.75 to 1.00 in the fourth quarter of 2010 and the first quarter of 2011, 5.50 to 1.00 in the second quarter of 2011, 5.25 to 1.00 in the third quarter of 2011 and 4.75 to 1.00 in the fourth quarter of 2011 and thereafter. Failure to comply with this covenant would result in an event of default under our senior secured credit facilities unless waived by our lenders. Our senior secured credit facilities require us to use a portion of excess cash flow and proceeds of certain asset sales that are not reinvested in our business and other dispositions to repay indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities. Our senior secured credit facilities also include covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to: •incur liens; •incur or assume additional debt or guarantees or issue preferred stock; •pay dividends, or make redemptions and repurchases, with respect to capital stock; •prepay, or make redemptions and repurchases of, subordinated debt; •make loans and investments; •make capital expenditures; •engage in mergers, acquisitions, asset sales, sale/leaseback transactions and transactions with affiliates; •change the business conducted by us or our subsidiaries; and •amend the terms of subordinated debt. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our senior secured credit facilities and any future financing agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. A breach of any of the restrictive covenants in our senior secured credit facilities would result in a default under our senior secured credit facilities. If any such default occurs, the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, or enforce their security interest, any of which would result in an event of default. The lenders 19 Table of Contents will also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. At September 30, 2008, we failed to satisfy the leverage ratio in our senior secured credit facilities. This default was cured by an equity contribution from affiliates of CCMP. However, CCMP and its affiliates are under no obligation to provide additional funds to us in the event of future covenant defaults. Our principal stockholder continues to have substantial control over us. As of March 18, 2010, after giving effect to the IPO and underwriters option exercise, affiliates of CCMP collectively beneficially own approximately 58.4% and affiliates of Unitas collectively beneficially own approximately 4.3% of our outstanding common stock. As a consequence, CCMP or its affiliates are able to exert a significant degree of influence or actual control over our management and affairs and will control matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and any other significant transaction. The interests of this stockholder may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of our other stockholders. For instance, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us otherwise favored by our other stockholders and could depress our stock price. Because affiliates of CCMP control more than 50% of the voting power of our common stock, we are a "controlled company" within the meaning of the NYSE's Listed Company Manual. Under the NYSE's Listed Company Manual, a controlled company may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including requirements that: (1) a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; (2) compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and (3) director nominees be selected or recommended by a majority of the independent directors or by a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. Because we have taken advantage of the controlled company exemption to certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Conflicts of interest may arise because some of our directors are principals of our principal stockholder. Representatives of CCMP and its affiliates occupy a majority of the seats on our board of directors. CCMP or its affiliates could invest in entities that directly or indirectly compete with us or companies in which CCMP or its affiliates are currently invested may already compete with us. As a result of these relationships, when conflicts arise between the interests of CCMP or its affiliates and the interests of our stockholders, these directors may not be disinterested. The representatives of CCMP and its affiliates on our board of directors, by the terms of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, are not required to offer us any transaction opportunity of which they become aware and could take any such opportunity for themselves or offer it to other companies in which they have an investment, unless such opportunity is expressly offered to them solely in their capacity as our directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 