ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements use words such as “anticipate,” “budget,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of potential future events, circumstances or future operating or financial performance. These forward-looking statements are based on our management’s current expectations and observations. Included among the factors that, in our view, could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K are the following (i) declines in demand or rates in the drybulk shipping industry; (ii) prolonged weakness in drybulk shipping rates; (iii) changes in the supply of or demand for drybulk products, generally or in particular regions; (iv) changes in the supply of drybulk carriers, including newbuilding of vessels or lower than anticipated scrapping of older vessels; (v) changes in rules and regulations applicable to the cargo industry, including, without limitation, legislation adopted by international organizations or by individual countries and actions taken by regulatory authorities; (vi) increases in costs and expenses including but not limited to: crew wages, insurance, provisions, lube oil, bunkers, repairs, maintenance and general, administrative and management fee expenses; (vii) whether our insurance arrangements are adequate; (viii) changes in general domestic and international political conditions; (ix) acts of war, terrorism, or piracy; (x) changes in the condition of our vessels or applicable maintenance or regulatory standards (which may affect, among other things, our anticipated drydocking or maintenance and repair costs) and unanticipated drydock expenditures; (xi) the amount of off-hire time needed to complete repairs on vessels and the timing and amount of any reimbursement by our insurance carriers for insurance claims including off-hire days; (xii) our acquisition or disposition of vessels; (xiii) our ability to leverage Genco’s relationships and reputation in the shipping industry; (xiv) the completion of definitive documentation with respect to charters; (xv) charterers’ compliance with the terms of their charters in the current market environment; (xvi) those other risks and uncertainties discussed below under the heading “RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS & OPERATIONS”, and (xvii) other factors listed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Our ability to pay dividends in any period will depend upon various factors, including the limitations under any credit agreements to which we may be a party, applicable provisions of Marshall Islands law and the final determination by the Board of Directors each quarter after its review of our financial performance. The timing and amount of dividends, if any, could also be affected by factors affecting cash flows, results of operations, required capital expenditures, or reserves. As a result, the amount of dividends actually paid may vary. We do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 14 The following risk factors and other information included in this report should be carefully considered. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS Industry Specific Risk Factors The current global economic downturn may negatively impact our business. In the current global economy, operating businesses have been facing tight credit, weak demand for goods and services, deteriorating international liquidity conditions, and depressed markets. Lower demand for drybulk cargoes as well as diminished trade credit available for the delivery of such cargoes have led to decreased demand for drybulk vessels, creating downward pressure on charter rates. General market volatility has endured as a result of uncertainty about sovereign debt and fears of countries such as Greece, Portugal and Spain defaulting on their governments’ financial obligations and speculation about the growth rate of the Chinese economy. If the current global economic environment persists or worsens, we may be negatively affected in the following ways: · We may not be able to employ our vessels at charter rates as favorable to us as historical rates or operate our vessels profitably. · Our earnings and cash flows could remain at depressed levels or decline, which may cause us to breach one or more of the covenants in the 2010 Credit Facility, thereby potentially accelerating the repayment of outstanding facility borrowings. · The market values of our vessels have decreased, which may cause us to recognize losses if any of our vessels are sold or if their values are impaired. A further decline in the market value of our vessels could prevent us from borrowing under the 2010 Credit Facility or trigger a default under its covenants. Please refer to “The market values of our vessels may decrease, which could adversely affect our operating results, cause us to breach one or more covenants in the 2010 Credit Facility or any credit facility we may enter into, or limit the total amount we may borrow under such a credit facility” below for further details. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Charterhire rates for drybulk carriers are volatile and are currently at historically low levels and may further decrease in the future, which may adversely affect our earnings. The prolonged downturn in the drybulk charter market, from which we derive the large majority of our revenues, has severely affected the drybulk shipping industry. The Baltic Dry Index (“BDI”), an index published by The Baltic Exchange of shipping rates for 26 key drybulk routes, showed relative weakness in 2012 and recorded an average level of 920, compared to a ten-year average level of 3,504. The BDI decreased to a historic low in February 2012. While the BDI has since increased, there can be no assurance the drybulk charter market will increase further, and the market could decline. The year to date in 2013 has exhibited seasonal issues like those of the corresponding period in 2012, with seasonal factors contributing to the most recent downturn in rates, including: order timing issues for iron ore cargoes related to the celebration of the Chinese New Year; increased deliveries of newbuilding vessels for the month of January as compared to the previous three months; and short-term weather-related issues, temporarily reducing iron ore output. In addition to these factors, there have been a number of adverse consequences for drybulk shipping, including, among other things: · a significant reduction in available financing for vessels; · a less active second-hand market for the sale of vessels; · extremely low charter rates, particularly for vessels employed in the spot market; · widespread loan covenant defaults in the drybulk shipping industry; and · declaration of bankruptcy by some operators and shipowners as well as charterers. 15 We charter all of our vessels principally in the spot market or on spot market-related time charters and, as a result, we are exposed to the cyclicality and volatility of the spot charter market. Because we charter all of our vessels principally in the spot market or on spot market-related time charters known as trip charters, or we may acquire vessels that are subject to existing charters, we are exposed to the cyclicality and volatility of the spot charter market, and we do not have long-term, fixed-rate time charters to ameliorate the adverse effects of downturns in the spot market. Capesize vessels, which we operate as part of our fleet, have been particularly susceptible to volatility in spot charter rates. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future at rates sufficient to allow us to meet our obligations or to pay dividends to our shareholders. The supply of and demand for shipping capacity strongly influences freight rates. In addition, vessels may experience repeated periods of unemployment between spot charters. The successful operation of our vessels in the spot market depends upon, among other things, obtaining profitable spot charters and minimizing, to the extent possible, time spent waiting for charters and time spent traveling unladen to pick up cargo, or ballast time. There have been times, including the recent past, when spot rates have declined below the operating cost of vessels. Future spot rates may decline significantly and may not be sufficient to enable our vessels trading in the spot market to operate profitably or for us to pay dividends and may have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and financial condition. Because the factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. The current global financial crisis has intensified this unpredictability. Factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: · demand for and production of drybulk products; · global and regional economic and political conditions including developments in international trade, fluctuations in industrial and agricultural production and armed conflicts; · the distance drybulk cargo is to be moved by sea; · environmental and other regulatory developments; and · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: · the number of newbuilding deliveries; · port and canal congestion; · the scrapping rate of older vessels; · vessel casualties; · conversion of vessels to other uses; · the number of vessels that are out of service, i.e., laid-up, drydocked, awaiting repairs or otherwise not available for hire; and · environmental concerns and regulations. In addition to the prevailing and anticipated freight rates, factors that affect the rate of newbuilding, scrapping and laying-up include newbuilding prices, secondhand vessel values in relation to scrap prices, costs of bunkers and other operating costs, costs associated with classification society surveys, normal maintenance and insurance coverage, the efficiency and age profile of the existing fleet in the market and government and industry regulation of maritime transportation practices, particularly environmental protection laws and regulations. These factors influencing the supply of and demand for shipping capacity are outside of our control, and we may not be able to correctly assess the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions. We anticipate that the future demand for our drybulk carriers will be dependent upon economic growth in the world’s economies, particularly China and India, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global drybulk 16 carrier fleet and the sources and supply of drybulk cargo to be transported by sea. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments, including a change in worldwide fleet capacity, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. The current oversupply of drybulk carrier capacity may lead to further reductions in charterhire rates, vessel values and profitability. The market supply of drybulk carriers has been increasing as a result of the delivery of numerous newbuilding orders over the last few years. Newbuildings have been delivered in significant numbers since the beginning of 2006. The oversupply of drybulk carrier capacity has resulted in a reduction of charterhire rates, as evidenced by the low rates we are experienced in 2012. Currently, some of our spot market-related time charterers are at times unprofitable due the volatility associated with dry cargo freight rates. If market conditions persist, upon the expiration or termination of our vessels’ current non-spot charters, we may only be able to re-charter our vessels at reduced or unprofitable rates, or we may not be able to charter these vessels at all. The occurrence of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. The market values of our vessels may decrease, which could adversely affect our operating results or cause us to breach one or more covenants in the 2010 Credit Facility or any credit facility we may enter into, or limit the total amount we may borrow under such a credit facility. If the book value of one of our vessels is impaired due to unfavorable market conditions or a vessel is sold at a price below its book value, we would incur a loss that could adversely affect our financial results. Also, certain covenants in the 2010 Credit Facility depend on the market value of our fleet, and covenants of any other credit facility we may enter into may also depend on such market value. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for further details on the covenants in the 2010 Credit Facility. If the market value of our fleet declines, we could breach certain provisions of the 2010 Credit Facility, which could accelerate the repayment of outstanding borrowings under such facility or may limit the total amount that we may borrow under such facility. In such an event, we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing under any credit facility. The occurrence of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Prolonged declines in charter rates and other market deterioration could cause us to incur impairment charges. We evaluate the carrying amounts of our vessels to determine if events have occurred that would require us to evaluate our vessels for an impairment of their carrying amounts. The recoverable amount of vessels is reviewed based on events and changes in circumstances that would indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recovered. The review for potential impairment indicators and projection of future cash flows related to the vessels is complex and requires us to make various estimates including future freight rates and earnings from the vessels. All of these items have been historically volatile. We evaluate the recoverable amount as the higher of fair value in use on an undiscounted cash basis. If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount of the vessel, the vessel is deemed impaired, and such vessel would be written down to its fair value. The carrying values of our vessels may not represent their fair market value in the future because the new market prices of second-hand vessels tend to fluctuate with changes in charter rates and the cost of newbuildings. Any impairment charges incurred as a result of declines in charter rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A further economic slowdown or changes in the economic and political environment in the Asia Pacific region could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. A significant number of the port calls our vessels make involve the loading or discharging of raw materials and semi-finished products in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, a negative change in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, and particularly in China or Japan, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. In particular, in recent years, China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product. China’s gross domestic product grew by 7.8% in 2012 as compared to a 9.2% growth rate in 2011. We cannot assure you that the Chinese economy will not experience a significant contraction in the future. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through state plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a “market economy” and enterprise reform. Limited price reforms were undertaken with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, 17 change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue a policy of economic reform, the level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions. Notwithstanding economic reform, the Chinese government may adopt policies that favor domestic drybulk shipping companies and may hinder our ability to compete with them effectively. Moreover, a significant or protracted slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union or various Asian countries may adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends will likely be materially and adversely affected by an economic downturn in any of these countries. We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental and operational safety laws that could require significant expenditures and affect our cash flows and net income and could subject us to increased liability under applicable law or regulation. Our business and the operation of our vessels are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions and national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the countries of their registration. Because such conventions, laws, and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with them or their impact on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted that could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. See “Overview — Environmental and Other Regulation” in Item 1, “Business” of this report for a discussion of such conventions, laws, and regulations. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates and financial assurances with respect to our operations. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the United Nations’ International Maritime Organization’s International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or ISM Code. The ISM Code requires ship owners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive “Safety Management System” that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a ship owner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. The IMO adopted the International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage, or the Bunker Convention, to impose strict liability on ship owners for pollution damage in jurisdictional waters of ratifying states caused by discharges of bunker fuel. The Bunker Convention, which became effective on November 21, 2008, requires registered owners of ships over 1,000 gross tons to maintain insurance or other financial security for pollution damage in an amount equal to the limits of liability under the applicable national or international limitation regime (but not exceeding the amount calculated in accordance with the Convention on Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims of 1976, as amended). With respect to non-ratifying states, liability for spills or releases of oil carried as fuel in ship’s bunkers typically is determined by the national or other domestic laws in the jurisdiction where the events or damages occur. OPA established an extensive regulatory and liability regime for the protection and cleanup of the environment from oil spills. OPA affects all owners and operators whose vessels trade in the United States, its territories and possessions or whose vessels operate in U.S. waters. OPA allows for liability without regard to fault of vessel owners, operators and demise charterers for all containment and clean-up costs and other damages arising from discharges or threatened discharges of oil from their vessels, including bunkers, in U.S. waters. Such liability is potentially unlimited in cases of willful misconduct or gross negligence. OPA also expressly permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to hazardous materials and oil pollution materials occurring within their boundaries, provided they accept, at a minimum, the levels of liability established under OPA. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of the contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. 18 We operate our vessels worldwide, and as a result, our vessels are exposed to international risks which could reduce revenue or increase expenses. The international shipping industry is an inherently risky business involving global operations. Our vessels are at risk of damage or loss because of events such as mechanical failure, collision, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, cargo loss and bad weather. All these hazards can result in death or injury to persons, increased costs, loss of revenues, loss or damage to property (including cargo), environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, harm to our reputation as a safe and reliable operator and delay or rerouting. In addition, changing economic, regulatory and political conditions in some countries, including political and military conflicts, have from time to time resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways, piracy, terrorism, labor strikes and boycotts. Our vessels may operate in particularly dangerous areas, including areas of the Indian Ocean, the Gulf of Aden, the South China Sea and the Red Sea. These sorts of events could interfere with shipping routes and result in market disruptions which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Our vessels may suffer damage and we may face unexpected dry docking costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover in full. In addition, space at drydocking facilities is sometimes limited and not all drydocking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable drydocking facility or we may be forced to travel to a drydocking facility that is distant from the relevant vessel’s position. The loss of earnings while our vessels are being repaired and repositioned or from being forced to wait for space or to travel to more distant drydocking facilities, as well as the actual cost of repairs, could negatively impact our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. The operation of drybulk carriers has certain unique operational risks which could affect our earnings and cash flow. The operation of certain ship types, such as drybulk carriers, has certain unique risks. With a drybulk carrier, the cargo itself and its interaction with the vessel can be an operational risk. By their nature, drybulk cargoes are often heavy, dense, easily shifted, and react badly to water exposure. In addition, drybulk carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold) and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the vessel. Vessels damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures may be more susceptible to breach to the sea. Hull breaches in drybulk carriers may lead to the flooding of the vessels’ holds. If a drybulk carrier suffers flooding in its forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the vessel’s bulkheads, leading to the loss of a vessel. If we are unable to adequately maintain our vessels, we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have continued and could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea, the Indian Ocean, the Gulf of Aden and the Red Sea. Since 2008, the frequency of piracy incidents increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized by insurers as “war risk” zones, or Joint War Committee (JWC) “war and strikes” listed areas, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including costs which may be incurred to the extent we employ onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. In response to piracy incidents, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia, following consultation with regulatory authorities, we may station guards on some of our vessels in some instances. While our use of guards is intended to deter and prevent the hijacking of our vessels, it may also increase our risk of liability for death or injury to persons or damage to personal property. If we do not have adequate insurance in place to cover such liability, it could adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. 19 Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks such as those in New York on September 11, 2001, in London on July 7, 2005, and in Mumbai on November 26, 2008, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks around the world, continue to cause uncertainty in the world’s financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Continuing conflicts and recent developments in the Middle East, including Egypt, and North Africa, and the presence of U.S. and other armed forces in the Middle East, may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operation, and financial condition. Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be costly and could reduce our net cash flows and net income. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be certified as being “in class” by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. Our vessels are currently enrolled with the ABS, DNV, or Lloyd’s, each of which is a member of the International Association of Classification Societies. Further, to trade internationally, a vessel must attain an International Ship Security Certificate, or ISSC, from a recognized security organization. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel’s machinery may be placed on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Our vessels are on special survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also required to be drydocked every two to three years for inspection of its underwater parts. If any vessel does not maintain its class or fails any annual, intermediate or special survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable and we could be in violation of certain covenants in our credit facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, UK Bribery Act, and other applicable worldwide anti-corruption laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and other applicable worldwide anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. These laws include the recently enacted U.K. Bribery Act, which became effective on July 1, 2011 and which is broader in scope than the FCPA, as it contains no facilitating payments exception. We charter our vessels into some jurisdictions that international corruption monitoring groups have identified as having high levels of corruption. Our activities create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees or agents that could be in violation of the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws. Our policies mandate compliance with applicable anti-corruption laws. Although we have policies, procedures and internal controls in place to monitor internal and external compliance, we cannot assure that our policies and procedures will protect us from governmental investigations or inquiries surrounding actions of our employees or agents. If we are found to be liable for violations of the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified, skilled employees or crew necessary to operate our business. Our success depends in large part on the ability of our Manager, our third-party technical managers, and us to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. In crewing our vessels, we require technically skilled employees with specialized training who can perform physically demanding work. Competition to attract and retain qualified crew members is intense. If we are not able to increase our rates to compensate for any crew cost increases, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Any inability our Manager, our third-party technical managers, or we experience in the future to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could impair our ability to manage, maintain and grow our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Labor interruptions could disrupt our business. Our vessels are manned by masters, officers and crews that are employed by third parties. If not resolved in a timely and cost-effective manner, industrial action or other labor unrest could prevent or hinder our operations from being carried out normally and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. 20 The smuggling of drugs or other contraband onto our vessels may lead to governmental claims against us. Our vessels call in ports in South America and other areas where smugglers attempt to hide drugs and other contraband on vessels, with or without the knowledge of crew members. To the extent our vessels are found with contraband, whether inside or attached to the hull of our vessel and whether with or without the knowledge of any of our crew, we may face governmental or other regulatory claims which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Arrests of our vessels by maritime claimants could cause a significant loss of earnings for the related off-hire period. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by “arresting” or “attaching” a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could result in a significant loss of earnings for the related off-hire period. In addition, in jurisdictions where the “sister ship” theory of liability applies, a claimant may arrest the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. In countries with “sister ship” liability laws, claims might be asserted against us or any of our vessels for liabilities of other vessels that we own. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings. A government of a vessel’s registry could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. A government could also requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Increases in fuel prices could adversely affect our profits. Spot charter arrangements generally provide that the vessel owner or pool operator bear the cost of fuel in the form of bunkers, which is a significant vessel operating expense. While all of our vessels are currently on spot-related time charters, they may be placed on spot charters in the future. If our vessels are placed on spot charters, an increase in the price of fuel beyond our expectations could adversely affect our profitability, cash flows and ability to pay dividends. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates as a result of events outside our control, including geo-political developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns and regulations. Given that the vessel owner or pool operator bears the cost of fuel under spot charters, the recent volatility in fuel prices is one factor affecting profitability in the drybulk spot market. To profitably price an individual charter, the vessel owner or pool operator must take into account the anticipated cost of fuel for the duration of the charter. Changes in the actual price of fuel at the time the charter is to be performed could result in the charter being performed at a significantly greater or lesser profit than originally anticipated or even result in a loss. Our results of operations are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may adversely affect our financial condition. We operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results, as our vessels trade in the spot market. The drybulk sector is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. As a result, our revenues could be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and conversely, our revenue could be stronger during the quarters ended December 31 and March 31. This seasonality could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Company Specific Risk Factors We have a limited operating history on which you can evaluate our business strategy. Our vessel operating history commenced in April 2010 with the delivery of the first vessel we agreed to purchase prior to our IPO, and we have taken delivery of eight additional vessels since that time. Given the limited period of time in which we have been operating our fleet, there can be no assurance that our business strategy and operations will be successful. 21 We may not be able to implement our growth effectively. A principal focus of our business strategy is to grow by expanding our business. Our growth plan therefore depends upon a number of factors, some of which may not be within our control. These factors include our ability to: · identify suitable vessels or shipping companies for acquisitions or joint ventures to grow our fleet in the future; · integrate successfully any acquired vessels or businesses with our existing operations; and · obtain required financing for our existing and any new operations. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks, including undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and suppliers and integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. In addition, competition from other companies, many of which have significantly greater financial resources than do we or Genco, may reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay higher prices. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in executing our plans to establish and grow our business or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with these plans. Our failure to effectively identify, purchase, develop and integrate any vessels or businesses could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have not identified attractive acquisition targets with satisfactory financing since our initial public offering and may not do so in the future. Our acquisition growth strategy exposes us to risks that may harm our business, financial condition and operating results, including risks that we may: · fail to realize anticipated benefits, such as new customer relationships, cost-savings or cash flow enhancements; · incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with any vessels or businesses acquired, particularly if any vessel we acquire proves not to be in good condition; · be unable to hire, train or retain qualified shore and seafaring personnel to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; · decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; · significantly increase our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; or · incur other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. Moreover, to the extent we have future opportunities to expand our fleet, our strategy is to do so primarily through equity financing, which we expect will mainly consist of issuances of additional shares of our common stock, and internally generated cash flow. We have also entered into the 2010 Credit Facility to provide bridge financing for vessel acquisitions. However, we have not deemed conditions since our initial public offering to be suitable for equity financings to repay debt under our 2010 Credit Facility or finance potential acquisitions. If we are unable to complete equity issuances at prices that we deem acceptable, or our internally generated cash flow or credit facility are insufficient to finance future vessel acquisitions, we may need to revise our growth plan or consider alternative forms of financing. Genco and its affiliates may compete with us or claim business opportunities that would benefit us. Genco may compete with us and is not contractually restricted from doing so. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and our Omnibus Agreement with Genco specify that Genco has a right of first refusal with respect to business opportunities generally except with respect to certain spot charter opportunities, as to which we have a right of first refusal. The most common types of business opportunities for which Genco has a right of first refusal are vessel purchase and sale opportunities and charters other than the spot charter opportunities for which we have a right of first refusal. Other business opportunities for which Genco has a result of first refusal are to hire employees, acquire other businesses, or enter into joint ventures. These provisions may strengthen Genco’s ability to compete with us or claim business opportunities that would benefit us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. 22 Our plan to maintain low leverage and rely primarily on equity financing and our earnings to expand our business may adversely affect our growth and earnings. Since our initial public offering, we financed the acquisition of three of our vessels using borrowings under our 2010 Credit Facility. Our intention has been to use the 2010 Credit Facility to provide bridge financing for vessel acquisitions; however, given unfavorable market conditions, we have not pursued additional equity financing that would allow us to reduce our indebtedness. The remaining availability under our 2010 Credit Facility and cash generated from our operations is not sufficient for substantial acquisitions to expand our business. Accordingly, unless market conditions improve or we consider other financing alternatives, we may be unable to take advantage of strategic opportunities to expand our business. As a result, our future earnings, cash flows and growth may be adversely affected. We may be unable to pay dividends. We currently intend to pay a variable quarterly dividend equal to our Cash Available for Distribution, as defined herein, from the previous quarter, subject to any reserves our Board of Directors may from time to time determine are required. The amount of Cash Available for Distribution will principally depend upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based upon, among other things: · the cyclicality in the spot vessel market; · the rates we obtain from our charters; · the price and demand for drybulk cargoes; · the level of our operating costs, such as the cost of crews and insurance; · the number of off-hire days for our fleet and the timing of, and number of days required for, drydocking of our vessels; · delays in the delivery of any vessels we have agreed to acquire; · prevailing global and regional economic and political conditions; and · the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of our business. The actual amount of cash generated also will depend upon other factors, such as: · the level of capital expenditures we make, including for maintaining existing vessels and acquiring new vessels, which we expect will be substantial; · our debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in any credit agreement we may enter into; · fluctuations in our working capital needs; and · the amount of any cash reserves established by our Board of Directors, including reserves for working capital and other matters. In addition, the declaration and payment of dividends is subject at all times to the discretion of our Board of Directors and compliance with the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. Please read “Dividend Policy” herein for more details. Our ability to grow and satisfy our financial needs may be adversely affected by our dividend policy. Our dividend policy calls for us to distribute all of our Cash Available for Distribution on a quarterly basis, subject to any reserves that our Board of Directors may determine are required. We have paid dividends in recent quarters even though the application of the formula in our policy would not have resulted in a dividend, although we may not continue to do so. Accordingly, our growth, if any, will be financed principally by equity capital raising and, therefore, may not be as fast as businesses that reinvest their cash to expand ongoing operations. In determining the amount of Cash Available for Distribution, our Board of Directors will consider contingent liabilities, the terms of the 2010 Credit Facility as well as any credit facilities we may enter into, our other cash needs and the requirements of 23 Marshall Islands law. We believe that we will generally finance any maintenance and expansion capital expenditures from cash balances or external financing sources (which we intend as part of our strategy to be equity issuances and borrowings under a credit facility, but could include debt issuances). To the extent we do not have sufficient cash reserves or are unable to obtain financing for these purposes, our dividend policy may significantly impair our ability to meet our financial needs or to grow. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet, which may reduce the amount of cash for dividends to our shareholders. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet. We generally finance these maintenance capital expenditures with cash balances or undrawn credit facilities. We anticipate growing our fleet through the acquisition of vessels, which would increase the level of our maintenance capital expenditures. Maintenance capital expenditures include capital expenditures associated with drydocking a vessel, modifying an existing vessel or acquiring a new vessel to the extent these expenditures are incurred to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet. These expenditures could increase as a result of changes in the cost of labor and materials; customer requirements; increases in our fleet size or the cost of replacement vessels; governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards relating to safety, security or the environment; and competitive standards. In addition, maintenance capital expenditures will vary significantly from quarter to quarter based on the number of vessels drydocked during that quarter. Significant maintenance capital expenditures may reduce the amount of Cash Available for Distribution to our shareholders. We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to expand the size of our fleet, which may diminish our ability to pay dividends, increase our financial leverage, or dilute our shareholders’ ownership interest in us. We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to increase the size of our fleet. We intend to expand our fleet by acquiring existing vessels from other parties or newbuilding vessels, which we refer to as newbuildings. We generally will be required to make installment payments on any newbuildings prior to their delivery. We typically would pay 10% to 25% of the purchase price of a vessel upon signing the purchase contract, even though delivery of the completed vessel will not occur until much later (approximately three to four years from the order). If we finance all or a portion of these acquisition costs through borrowings under the 2010 Credit Facility or by issuing debt securities, we will increase the aggregate amount of interest we must pay prior to generating cash from the operation of the newbuilding. Any interest expense we incur in connection with financing our vessel acquisitions, including capitalized interest expense, will decrease the amount of our dividends. If we finance these acquisition costs by issuing shares of common stock, we will dilute our quarterly per-share dividends prior to generating cash from the operation of the newbuilding. To fund expansion capital expenditures, we may be required to use cash balances, cash from operations, incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or additional equity securities. Use of cash from operations will reduce the amount of cash for dividends to our shareholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering, as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain funds for capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and on our ability to pay dividends. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional equity securities may result in significant shareholder ownership or dividend dilution. Our executive officers and the officers of our Manager will not devote all of their time to our business, which may hinder our ability to operate successfully. Our executive officers and the officers of our Manager are involved in other Genco business activities, which may result in their spending less time than is appropriate or necessary to manage our business successfully. Based solely on the anticipated relative sizes of our fleet and Genco’s fleet over the next twelve months, we estimate that John C. Wobensmith, our President and Chief Financial Officer, and other officers of Genco will spend approximately 10-15% of their monthly business time on our business activities and approximately 85-90% of such time on Genco’s. However, the actual allocation of time could vary significantly from time to time depending on various circumstances and needs of the businesses, such as the relative levels of strategic activities of the businesses. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. 24 Our executive officers and directors, our Manager, and the executive officers and directors of our Manager have conflicts of interest and limited duties, which may permit them to favor interests of Genco or its affiliates above our interests and those of our common shareholders and allow Genco to compete with us. Conflicts of interest may arise between Genco, our Manager, and its affiliates, on the one hand, and us and our shareholders, on the other hand. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: · Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and the Omnibus Agreement specify that Genco has a right of first refusal with respect to business opportunities generally, such as vessel purchase and sale opportunities and most charter opportunities, but excluding certain spot charter opportunities as to which we have a right of first refusal. Our President and Chief Financial Officer and certain of our directors also serve as executive officers or directors of Genco, who is our Manager, or its affiliates. As a result of the right of first refusal provision, the obligation of these individuals to provide opportunities to us will be limited. · Our Manager advises our Board of Directors about the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuances of additional common stock and cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of the Cash Available for Distribution to our shareholders. · Our executive officers and those of our Manager do not spend all of their time on matters related to our business. · Our Manager advises us of costs incurred by it and its affiliates that it believes are reimbursable by us. As a result of these conflicts, as well as any others that may arise pursuant to such arrangements, our Manager may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over our interests and those of our shareholders, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. The fiduciary duties of our officers and directors may conflict with those of the officers and directors of Genco and its affiliates. Our officers and directors have fiduciary duties to manage our business in a manner beneficial to our shareholders and us. However, our Chairman, our President and Chief Financial Officer and two of our independent directors, Basil G. Mavroleon and Harry A. Perrin, also serve as executive officers or directors of Genco. As a result, these individuals have fiduciary duties to manage the business of Genco and its affiliates in a manner beneficial to such entities and their shareholders. Consequently, these officers and directors may encounter situations in which their fiduciary obligations to Genco and us are in conflict. We believe the principal situations in which these conflicts may occur are in the allocation of business opportunities to Genco or us, particularly with respect to the allocation of chartering or vessel sale and purchase opportunities. The Omnibus Agreement is intended to reduce these conflicts by granting a right of first refusal for certain spot chartering opportunities to us while granting a right of first refusal to Genco for other business opportunities generally. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our shareholders and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Our Chairman may pursue business opportunities in our industry that may conflict with our interests Our Chairman, Peter C. Georgiopoulos, is not an employee of our company or of Genco and is not contractually committed to remain as a director of our company or to refrain from other activities in our industry. Mr. Georgiopoulos actively reviews potential investment opportunities in the shipping industry, including the drybulk sector, from time to time. Mr. Georgiopoulos controls and has a minority interest in Maritime Equity Partners LLC (“MEP”), which owns an aggregate of 12 drybulk vessels. Mr. Georgiopoulos has informed us that so long as he is a director of our company, prior to making an investment in an entity owning or operating drybulk vessels, he intends to disclose the details of such investment to our Board of Directors and our independent directors and allow us to pursue the opportunity, subject to Genco’s right of first refusal, to the extent we choose to do so and are able. However, in the event we choose not to, or are unable to, pursue any such opportunity, Mr. Georgiopoulos may proceed, either alone or with others, with such investments. As a result of such investments, Mr. Georgiopoulos may have independent interests in the ownership and operation of drybulk vessels that may conflict with our interests. 25 Our Manager has rights to terminate the Management Agreement and, under certain circumstances, could receive substantial sums in connection with such termination; however, even if our Board of Directors or our shareholders are dissatisfied with our Manager, there are limited circumstances under which we can terminate the Management Agreement. The Management Agreement has an initial term of approximately 15 years and will automatically renew for subsequent five-year terms provided that certain conditions are met. Our Manager has the right, after five years following the completion of our IPO in March 2010, to terminate the Management Agreement with 12 months’ notice. Our Manager also has the right to terminate the Management Agreement after a dispute resolution process if we have materially breached the Management Agreement. Our Manager may elect to terminate the Management Agreement upon the sale of all or substantially all of our assets to a third party, our liquidation or after any change of control of our company occurs. If our Manager so elects to terminate the Management Agreement, then our Manager may be paid a termination fee. This termination payment is generally calculated as five times the average annual management fees payable to Genco for the last five completed years of the term of the Management Agreement, or such lesser number of years as may have been completed at the time of termination. As of December 31, 2012, the termination payment that would be due to Genco is approximately $22.7 million. In addition, our rights to terminate the Management Agreement are limited. Even if we are not satisfied with the Manager’s efforts in managing our business, unless our Manager materially breaches the agreement, we may terminate the Management Agreement only: · if we provide notice in the fiscal quarter that is four fiscal quarters before the fiscal quarter containing the tenth anniversary of the date on which we took delivery of our first vessel (which was in April 2010) after two-thirds of our Board of Directors elect to terminate the Management Agreement, which termination would be effective the last day of the fiscal quarter that contains such tenth anniversary; or · if we provide notice of termination in the fiscal quarter that is four fiscal quarters before the fiscal quarter containing the fifteenth anniversary of the date on which we take delivery of our first vessel, which termination would be effective the last day of our fiscal quarter that contains such fifteenth anniversary. If we elect to terminate the Management Agreement at either of these points or at the end of a subsequent renewal term, our Manager will receive a termination fee, which may be substantial. We depend on Genco to assist us in operating our business and competing in our markets, and our business will be harmed if Genco fails to assist us effectively. We are party to a Management Agreement with Genco as our Manager, pursuant to which Genco provides to us commercial, technical, administrative and strategic services, including vessel maintenance, crewing, purchasing, shipyard supervision, insurance and financial services. Our operational success and ability to execute our growth strategy will depend significantly upon the satisfactory performance of these services by Genco. Our business will be harmed if Genco fails to perform these services satisfactorily, if it stops providing these services to us for any reason or if it terminates the Management Agreement, as it is entitled to do under certain circumstances. Like us, Genco does business in the drybulk shipping market, which has experienced a significant downturn in recent years. The challenges that Genco faces in the operation of its business in the current environment could negatively impact its ability to provide us services under the Management Agreement. The circumstances under which we are able to terminate the Management Agreement are extremely limited and do not include mere dissatisfaction with our Manager’s performance. In addition, upon any termination of the Management Agreement, we may lose our ability to benefit from economies of scale in purchasing supplies and other advantages that we believe our relationship with Genco provides. If Genco suffers material damage to its reputation or relationships, it may harm our ability to: · acquire new vessels; · enter into new charters for our vessels; · obtain financing on commercially acceptable terms; or · maintain satisfactory relationships with charterers, suppliers and other third parties. If our ability to do any of the things described above is impaired, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. An increase in operating costs could adversely affect our cash flows and financial condition. Under the Management Agreement, we must pay for vessel operating expenses (including crewing, repairs and maintenance, insurance, stores, lube oils and communication expenses), and in addition for spot or voyage charters, voyage expenses (including bunker fuel expenses, port fees, cargo loading and unloading expenses, canal tolls, agency fees and conversions). Our vessel 26 operating expenses include the costs of crewing and insurance, which expect to increase in 2013 compared to 2012. In addition, to the extent we employ our vessels on voyage charters, we will also have to bear the cost of bunkers. The price of bunker fuel may increase in the future. Further, if our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. Increases in any of these costs would decrease our earnings, cash flows and the amount of Cash Available for Distribution to our shareholders. The 2010 Credit Facility and any other financing agreements we enter into may contain operating and financial restrictions that restrict our business and financing activities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants contained in the 2010 Credit Facility and any future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to pursue and expand our business activities. For example, these financing arrangements may restrict our ability to: · pay dividends; · incur or guarantee indebtedness; · change ownership or structure, including mergers, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; · incur liens on our assets; · sell, transfer, assign or convey assets; · make certain investments; and · enter into a new line of business. The 2010 Credit Facility requires us to comply with a number of covenants, including financial covenants related to liquidity, consolidated net worth, and collateral maintenance, restrictions on changes in our Manager or our initial vessels (or acceptable replacement vessels), limitations on changes to the Management Agreement between Genco and us, limitations on liens, limitations on additional indebtedness, restrictions on paying dividends, restrictions on transactions with affiliates and other customary covenants. Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. Our lenders’ interests may be different from ours, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders’ permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest and from executing our business strategy of growth through acquisitions and may restrict or limit our ability to pay dividends and finance our future operations. Our ability to comply with covenants and restrictions contained in debt instruments also may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, we may fail to comply with these covenants. If we breach any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in the financing agreements, our obligations may become immediately due and payable, and the lenders’ commitment, if any, to make further loans may terminate. A default under financing agreements could also result in foreclosure on any of our vessels and other assets securing related loans. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Restrictions in the 2010 Credit Facility and any other potential future debt agreements may prevent us from paying dividends. The payment of principal and interest on any debt we have or may incur will reduce the amount of cash for dividends to our shareholders. In addition, the 2010 Credit Facility includes restrictions on paying dividends in certain circumstances and we expect that any additional future financing agreements will prohibit the payment of dividends upon the occurrence of the following events, among others: · failure to pay any principal, interest, fees, expenses or other amounts when due; · failure to notify the lenders of any material oil spill or discharge of hazardous material, or of any action or claim related thereto; · breach or lapse of any insurance with respect to the vessels; · breach of certain financial covenants; 27 · failure to observe any other agreement, security instrument, obligation or covenant beyond specified cure periods in certain cases; · default under other indebtedness; · bankruptcy or insolvency events; · failure of any representation or warranty to be materially correct; · a change of control, as defined in the applicable agreement; and · a material adverse effect, as defined in the applicable agreement. The aging of our fleet and our practice of purchasing and operating previously owned vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings. Our current business strategy includes growth through the acquisition of previously owned vessels. While we typically inspect previously owned vessels before purchase, this does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Accordingly, we may not discover defects or other problems with such vessels before purchase. Any such hidden defects or problems, when detected, may be expensive to repair, and if not detected, may result in accidents or other incidents for which we may become liable to third parties. Also, when purchasing previously owned vessels, we do not receive the benefit of any builder warranties if the vessels we buy are older than one year. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. The average age of the vessels in our current fleet is approximately 3.0 years as of December 31, 2012. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology and cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, safety and other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to some of our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which these vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. As a result, regulations and standards could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. We depend to a significant degree upon third-party managers to provide the technical management of our fleet. Any failure of these technical managers to perform their obligations to us could adversely affect our business. Through our Manager, we contract the technical management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair services, to third-party technical management companies. The failure of these technical managers to perform their obligations could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Although we may have rights against our third-party managers if they default on their obligations to us, our shareholders will share that recourse only indirectly to the extent that we recover funds. We depend upon a small number of charterers for all of our revenues. The loss of one or more of these charterers could adversely affect our financial performance. We derive all of our revenues from a small number of charterers. For the year ended December 31, 2012, 100% of our revenues were derived from eleven charterers. If we were to lose any of these charterers, or if any of these charterers significantly reduced its use of our services or was unable to make charter payments to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. In the highly competitive international drybulk shipping industry, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources. We employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of drybulk cargoes can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its managers to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions that may be able to offer better prices and fleets than we are able to offer. 28 We maintain all of our cash with a limited number of financial institutions, which subjects us to credit risk. Currently, we maintain all of our cash with one financial institution and we expect to do so for the foreseeable future. This financial institution is located in the Cayman Islands, although in the future we may select other financial institutions located in other countries. None of our balances are covered by insurance in the event of default by these financial institutions. The occurrence of such a default could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to fund our capital expenditures, we may not be able to continue to operate some of our vessels, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to pay dividends. In order to fund our capital expenditures, we generally plan to use equity financing. If equity financing is not available on favorable terms, we may have to use debt financing. Our ability to borrow money and access the capital markets through future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures could limit our ability to continue to operate some of our vessels or impair the values of our vessels and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and ability to pay dividends. Even if we are successful in obtaining such funds through financings, the terms of such financings could further limit our ability to pay dividends. We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our current and future subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations or to make dividend payments. We are a holding company, and our current and future subsidiaries, which are all wholly-owned by us, either directly or indirectly, will conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our wholly-owned subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to satisfy our financial obligations and to pay dividends to our shareholders will depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us. In turn, the ability of our subsidiaries to make dividend payments to us will depend on them having profits available for distribution and, to the extent that we are unable to obtain dividends from our subsidiaries, this will limit the discretion of our Board of Directors to pay or recommend the payment of dividends. Our ability to obtain debt financing may depend on the performance of our business, our Manager, and market conditions. The actual or perceived credit quality of our business, our Manager, and market conditions affecting the spot charter market and the credit markets may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources that may be required to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such capital. Our inability to obtain additional financing at all or at a higher than anticipated cost may have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. If management is unable to provide reports as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with unqualified attestation reports as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (or Sarbanes-Oxley), we are required to include in this and each of our subsequent future annual reports on Form 10-K a report containing our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a related attestation of our independent registered public accounting firm. As our manager, Genco provides substantially all of our financial reporting, and we depend on the procedures they have in place. If, in such future annual reports on Form 10-K, our management cannot provide a report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified attestation report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Our costs of operating as a public company are significant, and our management is required to devote substantial time to complying with public company regulations. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, Sarbanes-Oxley, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, have imposed various requirements on public companies, including changes in corporate governance practices, and these requirements may continue to evolve. Our Manager, management personnel, and other personnel, if any, will need to devote a substantial amount of time to comply with these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and have made some activities more time-consuming and costly. 29 Sarbanes-Oxley requires, among other things, that we maintain and periodically evaluate our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we will need to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. While we expect to be able to follow Genco’s model and systems for compliance with Section 404, our compliance with Section 404 may require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts, and we will depend on Genco for our compliance as Genco personnel will perform our accounting function. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively affect the effectiveness of our management and our results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management and our ability to hire and retain key members of management. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could have a material adverse effect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. We do not intend to maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our officers. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us if we lose our vessels or to compensate third parties. There are a number of risks associated with the operation of ocean-going vessels, including mechanical failure, collision, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, property loss, cargo loss or damage and business interruption due to political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities and labor strikes. Any of these events may result in loss of revenues, increased costs and decreased cash flows. In addition, the operation of any vessel is subject to the inherent possibility of marine disaster, including oil spills and other environmental mishaps, and the liabilities arising from owning and operating vessels in international trade. We are insured against tort claims and some contractual claims (including claims related to environmental damage and pollution) through memberships in protection and indemnity associations or clubs, or P&I Associations. As a result of such membership, the P&I Associations will provide us coverage for such tort and contractual claims. We also carry hull and machinery insurance and war risk insurance for our fleet. We insure our vessels for third-party liability claims subject to and in accordance with the rules of the P&I Associations in which the vessels are entered. We also maintain insurance against loss of hire, which covers business interruptions that result in the loss of use of a vessel. We can give no assurance that we are adequately insured against all risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our fleet in the future. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies contain deductibles for which we will be responsible and limitations and exclusions which may increase our costs or lower our revenue. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew our insurance policies on the same or commercially reasonable terms, or at all, in the future. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led in the past to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, protection and indemnity insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. In addition, our insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain of our actions, such as our ships failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. Further, we cannot assure you that our insurance policies will cover all losses that we incur, or that disputes over insurance claims will not arise with our insurance carriers. Any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. In addition, our insurance policies are subject to limitations and exclusions, which may increase our costs or lower our revenues, thereby possibly having a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. We are subject to funding calls by our protection and indemnity associations, and our associations may not have enough resources to cover claims made against them. We are indemnified for legal liabilities incurred while operating our vessels through membership in P&I Associations. P&I Associations are mutual insurance associations whose members must contribute to cover losses sustained by other association members. The objective of a P&I Association is to provide mutual insurance based on the aggregate tonnage of a member’s vessels entered into the association. Claims are paid through the aggregate premiums of all members of the association, although members remain subject to calls for additional funds if the aggregate premiums are insufficient to cover claims submitted to the association. Claims submitted to the association may include those incurred by members of the association, as well as claims submitted to the association from other P&I Associations with which our P&I Association has entered into interassociation agreements. We cannot assure you that the P&I Associations to which we belong will remain viable or that we will not become subject to additional funding calls which could adversely affect us. We have to pay U.S. tax on U.S. source income, which reduces our net income and cash flows. We do not currently qualify for an exemption pursuant to Section 883 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), which we refer to as Section 883. As a result, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our shipping 30 income that is derived from U.S. sources as described below. To the extent we are subject to such tax, our net income and cash flows will be reduced by the amount of such tax. We would qualify for exemption under Section 883 if, among other things, one or more classes of our stock representing, in the aggregate, more than 50% of the combined voting power and value of all classes of our stock were treated as primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market in the United States. Under applicable Treasury regulations, we may not satisfy this publicly-traded requirement in any taxable year in which 50% or more of any class(es) of stock we rely on to meet this rule is owned for more than half the days in such year by persons who actually or constructively own 5% or more of such class(es) of our stock, which we sometimes refer to as 5% shareholders. As of the date of this report, our common stock represents more than 50% of the value of all classes of our stock, but less than 50% of the combined voting power of all classes of our stock. Unless the holders of the Class B stock irrevocably elect to limit their aggregate voting power to 49%, our Class B stock will represent more than 50% of the combined voting power of all classes of our voting stock and will not be treated as primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market in the United States. Therefore, we do not currently qualify for exemption under Section 883. As a result, 50% of our gross shipping income attributable to transportation beginning or ending in the United States, if any, will be subject to a 4% tax without allowance for deductions. While we do not currently anticipate that a significant portion of our shipping income will be U.S. source shipping income, there can be no assurance that this will be the case. During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we had U.S. operations which resulted in U.S. source shipping income of approximately $1.4 million, $3.1 million and $2.5 million, respectively. In the event that holders of a majority of the Class B stock irrevocably elect to reduce the voting power of the Class B stock to constitute not more than 49% of the total voting power of all classes of stock, our common stock will represent more than 50% of the combined voting power and value of all classes of our stock. However, there can be no assurance as to if and when holders of Class B stock may do so, and we have no right to require these holders to do so. Even if that were to occur, if 5% shareholders of the common stock were to own more than 50% of our common stock for more than half the days of any taxable year, we may nonetheless not be eligible to claim exemption from tax under Section 883 for such taxable year. Legislative action relating to taxation could materially and adversely affect us. Our tax position could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by any tax authority. For example, legislative proposals have been introduced in the U.S. Congress which, if enacted, could change the circumstances under which we would be treated as a U.S. person for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate and cash tax position and require us to take action, at potentially significant expense, to seek to preserve our effective tax rate and cash tax position. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. A foreign corporation generally will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” which we sometimes refer to as a PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of “passive income” or (2) at least 50% of its assets (averaged over the year and generally determined based upon value) produce or are held for the production of “passive income.” U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to distributions they receive from the PFIC and gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their stock in the PFIC. For purposes of these tests, “passive income” generally includes dividends, interest, gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business, as defined in applicable Treasury regulations. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” By contrast, rental income would generally constitute passive income unless we were treated under specific rules as deriving our rental income in the active conduct of a trade or business. Based on our planned operations and certain estimates of our gross income and gross assets, we do not believe that we will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our spot chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that (1) our income from our spot chartering activities does not constitute passive income and (2) the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. While there is no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation, there is legal authority supporting this position consisting of case law and pronouncements by the United States Internal Revenue Service, which we sometimes refer to as the IRS, concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and voyage charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, it should be noted that there is also authority that characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will 31 accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, because there are uncertainties in the application of the PFIC rules, because the PFIC test is an annual test, and because, although we intend to manage our business so as to avoid PFIC status to the extent consistent with our other business goals, there could be changes in the nature and extent of our operations in future years, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in any taxable year. If we were to be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year (and regardless of whether we remain a PFIC for subsequent taxable years), our U.S. shareholders would face adverse U.S. tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless a shareholder makes certain elections available under the Code (which elections could themselves have adverse consequences for such shareholder), such shareholder would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the highest applicable income tax rates on ordinary income upon the receipt of excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common stock, plus interest on such amounts, as if such excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder’s holding period of our common stock. Because we generate virtually all of our revenues in U.S. Dollars but incur a portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could hurt our results of operations. We generate virtually all of our revenues in U.S. Dollars, but we may incur drydocking costs and special survey fees in other currencies. If our expenditures on such costs and fees were significant, and the U.S. Dollar were weak against such currencies, our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends could be adversely affected. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK The concentration of our capital stock ownership with Genco and its affiliates and the superior voting rights of our Class B stock held by Genco will limit our common stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters. Under our amended and restated articles of incorporation, our Class B stock has 15 votes per share, and our common stock has one vote per share resulting in Genco controlling in excess of 50% of the combined voting power of these two classes of stock. However, if holders of a majority of the Class B stock make an irrevocable election to do so, the aggregate voting power of the Class B stock will be limited to a maximum of 49% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock and Class B stock, voting together as a single class. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, Genco owns shares of our Class B stock representing 83.17% and 83.41%, respectively, of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Genco Investments LLC. In addition, pursuant to the subscription agreement between us and Genco Investments LLC, for so long as Genco Investments LLC or its affiliates holds at least 10% of the aggregate number of outstanding shares of our common stock and Class B stock, Genco Investments LLC is entitled to receive an additional number of shares of Class B stock equal to 2% of the number of shares of common stock issued after our IPO was consummated in March 2010, excluding any shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option in our IPO or issued as an award or issuable upon exercise of an award under our 2010 Equity Incentive Plan. These additional shares would be issued for no additional consideration unless insufficient surplus exists to cover the par value of such additional shares, in which case Genco Investments LLC will pay us the par value of such shares. In addition, our directors or officers who are affiliated with Genco or other individuals providing services under the Management Agreement who are affiliated with Genco may receive equity awards under our 2010 Equity Incentive Plan. Through its ownership of our Class B stock, its role as our Manager and the issuance of equity awards to individuals affiliated with Genco, Genco will have substantial control and influence over our management and affairs and over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets, for the foreseeable future. In addition, because of this dual-class stock structure, Genco will continue to be able to control all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval even though it owns significantly less than 50% of the aggregate number of outstanding shares of our common stock and Class B stock. This concentrated control limits our common stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our common stockholders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, Genco has pledged its Class B stock as security for its borrowings under its $1.4 billion credit facility entered into as of July 20, 2007, as amended. If Genco is in default under this facility and the lenders foreclose on the Class B shares under the terms of the facility, a change in control of Baltic Trading could result. Because we are a foreign corporation, you may not have the same rights or protections that a shareholder in a United States corporation may have. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law and may make it more difficult for our shareholders to protect their interests. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws and the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain U.S. jurisdictions and there have been few 32 judicial cases in the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. Therefore, you may have more difficulty in protecting your interests as a shareholder in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. Future sales of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The market price of our common stock could decline due to sales of a large number of shares in the market, including sales of shares by our large shareholders, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales could also make it more difficult or impossible for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. We entered into a registration rights agreement with Genco that entitles Genco to have all the shares of our common stock that it owns registered for sale in the public market under the Securities Act. As a key component of our business strategy, we intend to issue additional shares of common stock or other securities to finance our growth. These issuances, which would generally not be subject to shareholder approval, will dilute your ownership interests and may depress the market price of the common stock. We plan to finance potential future expansions of our fleet primarily through equity financing and internally generated cash flow. Therefore, subject to the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, we plan to issue additional shares of common stock, and other equity securities of equal or senior rank, without shareholder approval, in a number of circumstances from time to time. The issuance by us of additional shares of common stock or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: · our existing shareholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; · the amount of cash available for dividends payable on our common stock may decrease; · the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding share may be diminished; and · the market price of our common stock may decline. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all or which may dilute our common stock or adversely affect its market price. We may require additional capital to expand our business and increase revenues, add liquidity in response to negative economic conditions, meet unexpected liquidity needs caused by industry volatility or uncertainty and reduce our outstanding indebtedness under the 2010 Credit Facility. To the extent that our existing capital and borrowing capabilities are insufficient to meet these requirements and cover any losses, we will need to raise additional funds through debt or equity financings, including offerings of our common stock, securities convertible into our common stock, or rights to acquire our common stock or curtail our growth and reduce our assets or restructure arrangements with existing security holders. Any equity or debt financing, or additional borrowings, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Equity financings could result in dilution to our stockholders, as described further below, and the securities issued in future financings may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. If our need for capital arises because of significant losses, the occurrence of these losses may make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms if and when needed, we may not be able to take advantage of future opportunities, grow our business or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements We have agreed to restrict our ability to issue preferred stock or take other actions that may result in a default under one of Genco’s credit facilities, which may limit how we conduct our business. So that Genco may comply with a provision in one of its existing credit facilities, our amended and restated articles of incorporation and the Omnibus Agreement provide that we will not issue any shares of preferred stock without the prior written consent of Genco. We therefore do not anticipate that we will be able to issue preferred stock for the foreseeable future. As a result, our options for raising additional capital that we may require for future operations or growth, or our ability to enter into mergers, acquisitions, or other strategic transactions our shareholders may consider to be in our best interests, may be limited. The Omnibus Agreement also provides that we will use our commercially reasonable efforts not to take any action that would result in an event of default under one of Genco’s existing credit facilities or the terms of any future credit facility that Genco may enter into to the extent such terms impose no greater restrictions on Genco’s subsidiaries than this existing credit facility. We may therefore have to take actions or forego opportunities that would otherwise be in our best interests in order to prevent an event of default under one of Genco’s credit facilities. For example, this may restrict, among other things, our ability to make acquisitions or investments in other 33 companies, our ability to borrow generally, the terms we may enter into in another credit facility of our own, or our ability to expand our operations into other lines of business. Volatility in the market price and trading volume of our common stock could adversely impact the trading price of our common stock. The stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies like us. These broad market factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. The market price of our common stock, which has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent months, could continue to fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including in response to the risks described herein or for reasons unrelated to our operations, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions or negative announcements by our competitors or suppliers regarding their own performance, as well as industry conditions and general financial, economic and political instability. A decrease in the market price of our common stock would adversely impact the value of your shares of common stock. Provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws and our shareholder rights plan may have anti-takeover effects which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Several provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws, which are summarized below, may have anti-takeover effects. These provisions are intended to avoid costly takeover battles, lessen our vulnerability to a hostile change of control and enhance the ability of our Board of Directors to maximize shareholder value in connection with any unsolicited offer to acquire our company. However, these anti-takeover provisions could also discourage, delay or prevent (1) the merger or acquisition of our company by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise that a shareholder may consider in its best interest and (2) the removal of incumbent officers and directors. Dual Class Stock. Our dual class stock structure, which consists of common stock and Class B stock, gives Genco and its affiliates control over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. Blank Check Preferred Stock. Under the terms of our amended and restated articles of incorporation, our Board of Directors has the authority, without any further vote or action by our shareholders, to authorize our issuance of up to 100,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock. Our Board of Directors may issue shares of preferred stock on terms calculated to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or the removal of our management. However, so that Genco may comply with a provision in one of its existing credit facilities, our amended and restated articles of incorporation and the Omnibus Agreement provide that we will not issue any shares of preferred stock without the prior written consent of Genco. We therefore do not anticipate that we will be able to issue preferred stock for the foreseeable future. Classified Board of Directors. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation provide for the division of our Board of Directors into three classes of directors, with each class as nearly equal in number as possible, serving staggered, three-year terms beginning upon the expiration of the initial term for each class. Approximately one-third of our Board of Directors is elected each year. This classified board provision could discourage a third party from making a tender offer for our shares or attempting to obtain control of us. It could also delay shareholders who do not agree with the policies of our Board of Directors from removing a majority of our Board of Directors for up to two years. Election and Removal of Directors. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors. Our amended and restated by-laws require parties other than the Board of Directors to give advance written notice of nominations for the election of directors. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation also provide that our directors may be removed only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of 662/3% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote for those directors or by a majority of the members of the board of directors then in office. These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent the removal of incumbent officers and directors. Limited Actions by Shareholders. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws provide that any action required or permitted to be taken by our shareholders must be effected at an annual or special meeting of shareholders or by the unanimous written consent of our shareholders. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws provide 34 that, subject to certain exceptions, our Chairman, President, or Secretary at the direction of the Board of Directors may call special meetings of our shareholders and the business transacted at the special meeting is limited to the purposes stated in the notice. Advance Notice Requirements for Shareholder Proposals and Director Nominations. Our amended and restated by-laws provide that shareholders seeking to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of their proposal in writing to the corporate secretary. Generally, to be timely, a shareholder’s notice must be received at our principal executive offices not less than 150 days nor more than 180 days before the date on which we first mailed our proxy materials for the preceding year’s annual meeting. Our amended and restated by-laws also specify requirements as to the form and content of a shareholder’s notice. These provisions may impede a shareholder’s ability to bring matters before an annual meeting of shareholders or make nominations for directors at an annual meeting of shareholders. In addition, we entered into a shareholder rights plan that makes it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the support of our Board of Directors. It may not be possible for our investors to enforce U.S. judgments against us. Both our company and our wholly-owned subsidiaries through which we own and operate our vessels are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and we expect most of our future subsidiaries will also be organized in the Marshall Islands. Substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for United States shareholders to serve process within the United States upon us or to enforce judgment upon us for civil liabilities in United States courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we are incorporated or where our assets are located (1) would enforce judgments of United States courts obtained in actions against us based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable United States federal and state securities laws or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us based upon these laws. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 