D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our business is seasonal and revenues and operating results could fall below investor expectations during certain periods, which could cause the trading price of our common shares to decline. Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly depending upon numerous factors. In particular, during the period from April to May, we generally experience an increase in revenues associated with our attendance at the China International Medical Equipment Fair, the largest exhibition of medical equipment, related products and services in Asia-Pacific region. This fair occurs in the spring each year. In addition, we generally experience an increase in revenues in the period from September through November. This increase is associated with hospital purchasing designed to extinguish governmental budgets prior to the fiscal year end. We believe that our first quarter performance will generally decline as a result of the lack of business conducted during the Chinese Lunar New Year Holiday. To the extent our financial performance fluctuates significantly, investors may lose confidence in our business and the price of our common shares could decrease. We may fail to effectively develop and commercialize new products and services, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The sleep respiratory market is developing rapidly and related technology trends are constantly evolving. This results in the frequent introduction of new products and services, short product life cycles and significant price competition. Consequently, our future success depends on our ability to anticipate technology development trends and identify, develop and commercialize in a timely and cost-effective manner the new and advanced products that our customers demand. New products contribute significantly to our revenues. Moreover, it may take an extended period of time for our new products to gain market acceptance, if at all. Furthermore, as the life cycle for a product matures, the average selling price generally decreases. In the future, we may be unable to offset the effect of declining average sales prices through increased sales volume and controlling product costs. Lastly, during a product’s life cycle, problems may arise regarding regulatory, intellectual property, product liability or other issues that may affect the product’s continued commercial viability. 5 We sell our products primarily to distributors, and our ability to add distributors will impact our revenue growth. Failure to maintain or expand our distribution network would materially and adversely affect our business. We depend on sales to distributors for a significant majority of our revenues. Our distributors purchase all products ordered regardless of whether the products are ultimately sold. Products are not purchased by distributors on consignment, and distributors have no right to return unsold products. As our existing distributor agreements expire, we may be unable to renew such agreements on favorable terms or at all, and we do not own, employ or control these independent distributors. Furthermore, we actively manage our distribution network and regularly review the performance of each distributor. We may terminate agreements with distributors, without penalty, if we are not satisfied with their performance for any reason. We periodically terminate relationships with underperforming exclusive distributors. Our distributors may also terminate their relationship with us without penalty. When an exclusive distributor in a particular geographic area fails to meet our expectations, then we are economically incentivized to replace that distributor with a new distributor so that area can be served as well as possible. We occasionally terminate a relationship with a non-exclusive distributor and are more likely to simply appoint another one; however, we have found that in some instances we are better served to replace an underperforming non-exclusive distributor with an exclusive distributor. Additionally, we have found that even in cases where there may not be an economic incentive to terminate a non-exclusive distributor, having the ability to replace a distributor often motivates distributors to increase their efforts to meet our expectations. This policy may make us less attractive to some distributors. In addition, we compete for distributors with other leading medical device companies who may enter into long-term distribution agreements, effectively preventing many distributors from selling our products. As a result, a significant amount of time and resources must be devoted to maintaining and growing our distribution network. Any disruption in our distribution network could have negative effects on our ability to sell our products, which would in turn materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We sell products for some of our competitors, some of which compete with our branded products. We serve as a distributor for other companies’ medical products and also sell medical products that we developed. While we rely on other suppliers’ products for some of our revenues, our self-developed products may, from time to time, compete with these suppliers’ products. Some of our suppliers may seek to restrict our ability sell competing products—either self-developed or developed by other third party suppliers—as a condition of serving as a distributor for their products. Where we are permitted to sell competing products, we may find that sales of a supplier’s products reduce demand for our self-developed products. Where our agreements with suppliers limit our ability to sell competing branded products, we may have to forego developing potentially profitable products. Any of these results could materially harm our business. We rely on some of our competitors to supply component parts for our branded products. We obtain some components from companies that are competitors in our market, such as IMD. We are not reliant on these competitors for such components and believe we could obtain these components from other suppliers. We do, however, provide detailed technical specifications to these competitors for use in producing components for our branded products. If these companies were to reverse-engineer or otherwise misappropriate such information, our business could be materially harmed. Although we do not own or control our distributors, the actions of these distributors may affect our business operations or our reputation in the marketplace. Our distributors are independent from us, and as such, our ability to effectively manage their activities is limited. Distributors could take any number of actions that could have material adverse effects on our business. If we fail to adequately manage our distribution network or if distributors do not comply with our distribution agreements, our corporate image could be tarnished among end users, disrupting our sales. Furthermore, we could be liable for actions taken by our distributors, including any violations of applicable law in connection with the marketing or sale of our products, including China’s anti-corruption laws. Recently, the PRC government has increased its anti-bribery efforts in the healthcare sector to reduce improper payments received by hospital administrators and doctors in connection with the purchase of pharmaceutical products and medical devices. Our distributors may violate these laws or otherwise engage in illegal practices with respect to their sales or marketing of our products. If our distributors violate these laws, we could be required to pay damages or fines, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our brand and reputation, our sales activities or the price of our shares could be adversely affected if our company becomes the target of any negative publicity as a result of actions taken by our distributors. 6 We plan to expand our homecare and technical service products internationally and hope to become a leader in selected international markets. Such expansion can be difficult and time consuming, and if unsuccessful our future profits would be materially and adversely affected. While we currently operate primarily in China, we envision competing in selected international markets with our homecare and technical service products. We intend to enter into markets in which we have limited or no experience and in which our brand may be less recognized. We plan to devote significant resources to marketing and promoting our brand internationally and attracting distributors in foreign markets. Success in international markets will depend on our ability to attract a sufficient number of distributors suitable for selling our branded products. Furthermore, in new markets we may fail to anticipate competitive conditions that are different from those in our existing markets. These competitive conditions may make it difficult or impossible for us to operate effectively in these markets. Operation in international markets will also expose us to many other risks, including but not limited to: · political instability; · economic instability and recessions; · changes in tariffs; · difficulties of administering foreign operations generally; · limited protection for intellectual property rights; · obligations to comply with a wide variety of foreign laws and other regulatory requirements; · financial condition, expertise and performance of international distributors; · export license requirements; · unauthorized re-export of our branded products; · inability to purchase our distributed products from international suppliers at competitive prices; · potentially adverse tax consequences; and · inability to effectively enforce contractual or legal rights. We are highly dependent on our key personnel such as key executives and research and development personnel. We are highly dependent on the continued service of our key executives and other key personnel. In particular, we substantially rely on our chairman and chief executive officer Mr. Ping Chen to manage our business and operations. We also rely on key research and development personnel for the development of new products. In addition, we rely on customer service personnel for the installation and support of our products and on marketing and sales personnel, engineers and other personnel with technical and industry knowledge to market, sell, install and service our products. We have entered into standard one-year employment contracts with all of our officers and managers and other key personnel and one-year employment contracts with our other employees. These contracts prohibit our employees from engaging in any conduct or activity that would be competitive with our business during the course of their employment. Loss of any of our key personnel could severely disrupt our business. We may not be able to find suitable or qualified replacements, and will likely incur additional expenses in order to recruit and train any new personnel. Competition for qualified management and key personnel in the medical technology field is intense and the pool of qualified candidates is limited. We not only compete with other medical device companies but also universities and other research institutions to attract and retain qualified personnel. This intense competition may force us to offer higher compensation and benefit packages in order to attract and retain the most qualified personnel. Our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain these individuals and failure to do so could result in severe disruptions to our business and growth. 7 Our business is subject to intense competition, which may reduce demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The medical device market is highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify. Given the $585 billion stimulus initiative in China and its impact on healthcare, we expect the availability of healthcare to increase, as more hospitals and clinics are developed rurally. We face direct competition from both domestic and international competitors across all product lines and price points. Our competitors also vary by product. Currently, in China our competitors include publicly traded and privately held multinational companies, such as Respironics Inc., ResMed Inc., and Covidien, as well as domestic Chinese companies such as Jiangsu Yuyue. As we expand into international markets, we expect that our competitors will primarily be publicly traded and privately held multinational companies. We also expect to face competition in international sales from companies that have local operations in the markets in which we sell our products. Some of our larger competitors may have: · greater financial and other resources; · larger variety of products; · more products that have received regulatory approvals; · greater pricing flexibility; · more extensive research and development and technical capabilities; · patent portfolios that may present an obstacle to our conduct of business; · greater knowledge of local market conditions where we seek to increase our international sales; · stronger brand recognition; and · larger sales and distribution networks. As a result, we may be unable to offer products similar to, or more desirable than, those offered by our competitors, market our products as effectively as our competitors or otherwise respond successfully to competitive pressures. In addition, our competitors may be able to offer discounts on competing products as part of a “bundle” of non-competing products, systems and services that they sell to our customers, and we may not be able to profitably match those discounts. Our competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we currently offer or that render our products obsolete or uncompetitive. The timing of the introduction of competing products into the market could affect the market acceptance and market share of our products. As we expect demand for our products to increase along with the availability of healthcare, we must continue to focus on competitive pricing and innovation by being at the forefront of market trends and improving our product and service offerings. Our failure to compete successfully could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects. Some of our internationally-based competitors may establish production or research and development facilities in China, while others may enter into cooperative business arrangements with Chinese manufacturers. If we are unable to develop competitive branded products, obtain regulatory approval or clearance and supply sufficient quantities to the market as quickly and effectively as our competitors, market acceptance of our branded products may be limited, which could result in decreased sales. In addition, we may not be able to maintain our branded product cost advantages. We believe that corrupt practices in the medical device industry in China still occur. To increase sales, certain manufacturers or distributors of medical devices may pay kickbacks or provide other benefits to hospital personnel who make procurement decisions. Our company policy prohibits these practices by our direct sales personnel and our distribution agreements require our distributors to comply with applicable law. As a result, as competition intensifies in the medical device industry in China, we may lose sales, customers or contracts to competitors. 8 If we fail to accurately project demand for our products, we may encounter problems of inadequate supply or oversupply, which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as damage our reputation and brand. Our distributors typically order our products on a purchase order basis. We project demand for our products based on rolling projections from our distributors, our understanding of anticipated hospital procurement spending, and distributor inventory levels. Lack of significant order backlog and the varying sales and purchasing cycles of our distributors and other customers, however, make it difficult for us to forecast future demand accurately. If we overestimate demand, we may purchase more distributed products or more unassembled parts or components for our branded products than we require. If we underestimate demand, our third party suppliers may have inadequate supply of distributed products or unassembled parts or product component inventories, which could interrupt the assembly process and delay shipments of our branded products, and could result in lost sales. In particular, we are seeking to reduce our procurement and inventory costs by matching our inventory closely with our projected product needs and by, from time to time, deferring our purchase of components in anticipation of supplier price reductions. As we seek to balance reduced inventory costs and assembly flexibility, we may fail to accurately forecast demand and coordinate our procurement and assembly to meet demand on a timely basis. Our inability to accurately predict our demand and to timely meet our demand could materially and adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations as well as damage our reputation and corporate brand. Failure to manage our growth could strain our management, operational and other resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. Our growth strategy includes building our brand, increasing market penetration of our existing products, developing new products, increasing our targeting of the sleep respiratory market in China, and increasing our exports. Pursuing these strategies has resulted in, and will continue to result in substantial demands on management resources. In particular, the management of our growth will require, among other things: · continued enhancement of our research and development capabilities; · information technology system enhancement; · stringent cost controls and sufficient liquidity; · strengthening of financial and management controls and information technology systems; and · increased marketing, sales and support activities; and hiring and training of new personnel. If we are not able to manage our growth successfully, our business and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to obtain or maintain applicable regulatory clearances or approvals for our products, or if such clearances or approvals are delayed, we will be unable to commercially distribute and market our products at all or in a timely manner, which could significantly disrupt our business and materially and adversely affect our sales and profitability. The sale and marketing of our products are subject to regulation in China. For a significant portion of our sales, we need to obtain and renew licenses and registrations with the CFDA. The processes for obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals can be lengthy and expensive, and the results are unpredictable. In addition, the relevant regulatory authorities may introduce additional requirements or procedures that have the effect of delaying or prolonging the regulatory clearance or approval for our existing or new products. If we are unable to obtain clearances or approvals needed to market existing or new branded products, or obtain such clearances or approvals in a timely fashion, our business would be significantly disrupted, and our sales and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Similarly, if the third parties from which we buy our distributed products fail to obtain such clearance, we would be unable to sell such distributed products, and our sales and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. 9 We generate a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of products, and a reduction in demand for any of these products could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from a small number of products. We expect a small number of our key products will continue to account for a significant portion of our net revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, continued market acceptance and popularity of these products is critical to our success, and a reduction in demand due to, among other factors, the introduction of competing products by our competitors, the entry of new competitors, or end-users’ dissatisfaction with the quality of these products could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, it could harm our business and competitive position. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and non-disclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. The process of seeking patent protection can be lengthy and expensive, our patent applications may fail to result in patents being issued, and our existing and future patents may be insufficient to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Our patents and patent applications may also be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We also rely on trade secret rights to protect our business through non-disclosure provisions in employment agreements with employees. If our employees breach their non-disclosure obligations, we may not have adequate remedies in China, and our trade secrets may become known to our competitors. Implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and enforcement difficulties. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other western countries. Furthermore, policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive, and we may need to resort to litigation to enforce or defend patents issued to us or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others. Such litigation and an adverse determination in any such litigation, if any, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention, which could harm our business and competitive position. We may be exposed to intellectual property infringement and other claims by third parties which, if successful, could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing third party intellectual property rights. If we sell our branded products internationally, and as litigation becomes more common in China, we face a higher risk of being the subject of claims for intellectual property infringement, invalidity or indemnification relating to other parties’ proprietary rights. Our current or potential competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have or may obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our branded products in either China or other countries, including the United States and other countries in Asia. The validity and scope of claims relating to medical device technology patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, as a result, may be highly uncertain. In addition, the defense of intellectual property suits, including patent infringement suits, and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. Furthermore, an adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could cause us to: · pay damage awards; · seek licenses from third parties; · pay ongoing royalties; · redesign our branded products; or · be restricted by injunctions. 10 Each of the foregoing could effectively prevent us from pursuing some or all of our business and result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our branded products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to product liability exposure and have limited insurance coverage. Any product liability claims or potential safety-related regulatory actions could damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The medical devices we assemble and sell can expose us to potential product liability claims if the use of these products causes or is alleged to have caused personal injuries or other adverse effects. Any product liability claim or regulatory action could be costly and time-consuming to defend. If successful, product liability claims may require us to pay substantial damages. We do not maintain product liability insurance to cover potential product liability arising from the use of our branded products because product liability insurance available in China offers only limited coverage compared to coverage offered in many other countries. As we expand our sales internationally and increase our exposure to these risks in many countries, we may be unable to obtain sufficient product liability insurance coverage on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. A product liability claim or potential safety-related regulatory action, with or without merit, could result in significant negative publicity and could materially and adversely affect the marketability of our branded products and our reputation, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, a material design, manufacturing or quality failure or defect in our branded products, other safety issues or heightened regulatory scrutiny could each warrant a product recall by us and result in increased product liability claims. Also, if these products are deemed by the authorities in the countries where we sell our branded products to fail to conform to product quality and safety requirements, we could be subject to regulatory action. In China, violation of PRC product quality and safety requirements may subject us to confiscation of related earnings, penalties, an order to cease sales of the violating product or to cease operations pending rectification. Furthermore, if the violation is determined to be serious, our business license to assemble or sell violating and other products could be suspended or revoked. We may undertake acquisitions, which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business, and may end up being unsuccessful. Our growth strategy may involve the acquisition of new technologies, businesses, products or services or the creation of strategic alliances in areas in which we do not currently operate. We do not have any understanding, commitment or agreement in place with regard to any such acquisitions at this time. These acquisitions could require that our management develop expertise in new areas, manage new business relationships and attract new types of customers. Furthermore, acquisitions may require significant attention from our management, and the diversion of our management’s attention and resources could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. We may also experience difficulties integrating acquisitions into our business and operations. Future acquisitions may also expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with: · the integration of new operations, services and personnel; · unforeseen or hidden liabilities; · the diversion of resources from our existing businesses and technologies; our inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset the costs of acquisitions; and · potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees or customers, any of which could significantly disrupt our ability to manage our business and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event we are unable to complete acquisitions, we have reserved the right to reallocate such funds to our working capital. If this happens, we would have broad discretion over the ultimate us of such funds, and we could use such funds in ways with which investors might disagree. 11 We may need additional capital in the future, and we may be unable to obtain such capital in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, or at all. In order for us to grow, remain competitive, develop new products, and expand our distribution network, we may require additional capital in the future. Our ability to obtain additional capital in the future is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: · our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; · general market conditions for capital raising activities by medical device manufacturers and other related companies; and · economic, political and other conditions in China and elsewhere. We may be unable to obtain additional capital in a timely manner or on acceptable terms or at all. Furthermore, the terms and amount of any additional capital raised through issuances of equity securities may result in significant shareholder dilution. If we experience a significant number of warranty claims, our costs could substantially increase and our reputation and brand could suffer. We typically sell our branded products with warranty terms covering 12 months after purchase. Our branded product warranty requires us to repair all mechanical malfunctions and, if necessary, replace defective components. We accrue liability for potential warranty claims at the time of sale. If we experience an increase in warranty claims or if our repair and replacement costs associated with warranty claims increase significantly, we may have to accrue a greater liability for potential warranty claims. Moreover, an increase in the frequency of warranty claims could substantially increase our costs and harm our reputation and brand. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may suffer materially if we experience a significant increase in warranty claims on our branded products. Foreign Operational Risks Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has grown more rapidly in the past 30 years than the world economy as a whole, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. Since early 2004, the PRC government has implemented certain measures to control the pace of economic growth. Such measures may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to foreign exchange controls in the PRC. Our PRC subsidiary and affiliates are subject to PRC rules and regulations on currency conversion. In the PRC, the State Administration for Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) regulates the conversion of the RMB into foreign currencies. Currently, foreign investment enterprises (“FIEs”) are required to apply to SAFE for “Foreign Exchange Registration Certificate for FIEs.” BDL is a FIE. With such registration certifications (which need to be renewed annually), FIEs are allowed to open foreign currency accounts including the “recurrent account” and the “capital account.” Currently, conversion within the scope of the “recurrent account” can be effected without requiring the approval of SAFE. However, conversion of currency in the “capital account” (e.g. for capital items such as direct investments, loans, securities, etc.) are still subject to limitations and require approvals from, or registration with, SAFE and other relevant PRC governmental authorities. 12 If the investing public’s perception of smaller companies from China worsens, our share price may decrease and we may have difficulty accessing U.S. capital markets. In recent months, a number of smaller companies from China have had the trading of their securities in the United States halted, delisted or otherwise affected for a variety of reasons. As a result, investors may be concerned about purchasing the securities of any smaller Chinese company. To the extent the investing community is reluctant to purchase such securities or discounts the value of the securities of companies that operate primarily or exclusively in China, our share price may also be adversely affected, regardless of whether there are specific concerns about our company. This could not only harm our share price but could also make it more difficult for us to conduct any future offering of our securities at a price that is acceptable to our company or at all. We do not have business interruption, litigation or natural disaster insurance. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. In particular PRC insurance companies offer limited business products. As a result, we do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business interruption, litigation or natural disaster may result in our business incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. The Chinese enterprise income tax law will affect tax exemptions on the dividends we receive and increase the enterprise income tax rate applicable to us. We are a holding company incorporated under the laws of the British Virgin Islands. We conduct substantially all of our business through our wholly owned Chinese subsidiaries and we derive all of our income from these subsidiaries. Prior to January 1, 2008, dividends derived by foreign legal persons from business operations in China were not subject to the Chinese enterprise income tax. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC passed the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law (the “EIT Law”), which took effect on January 1, 2008. Such tax exemptions ceased with the effectiveness of the EIT Law. Under the EIT Law, if we are deemed to be a non-resident enterprise for Chinese tax purposes, a withholding tax at the rate of 10% would be applicable to any dividends paid by our Chinese subsidiaries to us. However, if we are deemed to have a “de facto management organization” in China, we would be classified as a resident enterprise for Chinese tax purposes and thus would be subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 25% on all of our income. At present, the Chinese tax authority has not issued any guidance on the application of the EIT Law and its implementing rules on non-Chinese enterprises or group enterprise controlled entities whose structures are like ours. As a result, it is unclear what factors will be used by the Chinese tax authorities to determine whether we are a “de facto management organization” in China. However, as substantially all members of our management team are located in China, we may be deemed to be a resident enterprise and therefore subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 25% on our worldwide income, with the possible exclusion of dividends received directly from another Chinese tax resident. As a result of such changes, our historical operating results will not be indicative of our operating results for future periods and the value of our shares may be adversely affected. 13 BDL may also be required to allocate a portion of its after-tax profits, as determined by its board of directors, to the general reserve, the staff welfare and bonus funds, and the enterprise expansion reserve, which may not be distributed to equity owners. Pursuant to the Law of Chinese-Foreign Equity Joint Ventures, Chinese-foreign equity joint ventures are required to allocate a portion of their after-tax profits in accordance with their Articles of Association, to the general reserve, the staff welfare and bonus funds, and the enterprise expansion reserve. According to the Articles of Association of BDL, the amount of each reserve is determined by BDL’s board of directors. The general reserve is used to offset future extraordinary losses. The subsidiaries may, upon a resolution passed by the shareholders, convert the general reserve into capital. The employee welfare and bonus reserve is used for the collective welfare of the employees of the subsidiaries. The enterprise expansion reserve is used for the expansion of the subsidiaries’ operations and can be converted to capital subject to approval by the relevant authorities. These reserves represent appropriations of retained earnings determined according to PRC law. As of the date of this prospectus, the amounts of these reserves have not yet been determined, and we have not committed to establishing such amounts at this time. Under current PRC laws, BDL is required to set aside reserve amounts, but has not yet done so. BDL has not done so because PRC authorities grant companies flexibility in making a determination. Chinese law requires such a determination to be made in accordance with the companies’ organizational documents and BDL’s organizational documents do not require the determination to be made within a particular timeframe. Although we have not yet been required by PRC authorities to make such determinations or set aside such reserves, PRC authorities may require BDL to rectify its noncompliance and we may be fined if we fail to do so after warning within the time period set in the warning. PRC law requires allocation to the general reserve before distribution of the after-tax profits of foreign invested companies, which could prevent us from receiving the dividends from BDL. PRC law requires that the after-tax profits of foreign invested companies be distributed after a portion of after-tax profits is allocated to the reserve; therefore if for any reason, the dividends from BDL cannot be repatriated to us or not in time, then it may detrimentally affect our cash flow and even cause us to become insolvent. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive the majority of our revenues in Renminbi. Under our current corporate structure, our income is derived from payments from BDL. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of BDL to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at is discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders. Fluctuation of the Renminbi could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. Any significant revaluation of Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our common shares in U.S. dollars. For example, an appreciation of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would make any new Renminbi denominated investments or expenditures more costly to us, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for such purposes. 14 If PRC law were to phase out the preferential tax benefits currently being extended to certified high technology companies or if we were to fail to be certified to receive such a benefit, we would have to pay more taxes, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Under PRC laws and regulations, a company may enjoy preferential tax benefits if it is certified as a high technology enterprise. As a certified high technology enterprise, we are subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 15% tax rate so long as we continue to be so certified. If the PRC law were to phase out preferential tax benefits currently granted to certified high technology enterprises or if we were to fail to be certified to receive such a benefit, we would be subject to the standard statutory tax rate, which currently is 25%. If relations between the United States and China worsen, our share price may decrease and we may have difficulty accessing U.S. capital markets. At various times during recent years, the United States and China have had disagreements over political and economic issues. Controversies may arise in the future between these two countries. Any political or trade controversies between the United States and China could adversely affect the market price of our common shares and our ability to access U.S. capital markets. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have limited precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly increased the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. Our PRC operating subsidiary, BDL, is a foreign-invested enterprise and is subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China as well as laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. These laws and regulations change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protections that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may also impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into. As a result, these uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Recent PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity, and a failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. In October 2005, SAFE promulgated regulations that require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with and obtain approvals from relevant PRC government authorities in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents in connection with our prior and any future offshore acquisitions. 15 The October 2005 SAFE regulation required registration by March 31, 2006 of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore companies prior to the implementation of the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies on November 1, 2005. If a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Furthermore, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. We previously notified and urged our shareholders, and the shareholders of the offshore entities in our corporate group, who are PRC residents to make the necessary applications and filings, as required under this regulation. However, as these regulations are relatively new and there is uncertainty concerning their reconciliation with other approval requirements, it is unclear how they, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. While we believe that these shareholders submitted applications with local SAFE offices, some of our shareholders may not comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by the regulation or other related legislation. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to obtain any required approvals or make any required registrations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, prevent us from being able to make distributions or pay dividends, as a result of which our business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. Because our operations are located in China, information about our operations are not readily available from independent third-party sources. Because the BDL is based in China, our shareholders may have greater difficulty in obtaining information about it on a timely basis than would shareholders of a U.S.-based company. BDL’s operations will continue to be conducted in China and shareholders may have difficulty in obtaining information about it from sources other than BDL itself. Information available from newspapers, trade journals, or local, regional or national regulatory agencies such as issuance of construction permits and contract awards for development projects will not be readily available to shareholders and, where available, will likely be available only in Chinese. Shareholders will be dependent upon management for reports of their progress, development, activities and expenditure of proceeds. 