ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. There are numerous and varied risks that may prevent us from achieving our goals, including those described below. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations, could be harmed by any of the following risks. If any of the events or circumstances described below were to our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors could lose part or all of their investment. The risks below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Company and Our Business We operate in a highly competitive industry with low barriers to entry, and may be unable to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. The staffing services market is highly competitive with limited barriers to entry. We compete in national, regional and local markets with full-service and specialized temporary staffing companies. We expect that the level of competition will remain high, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. Several of our existing or potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do, which may enable them to:•Develop and expand their infrastructure and service offerings more quickly and achieve greater cost savings.•Invest in new technologies.•Expand operations into new markets more rapidly.•Devote greater resources to marketing.•Compete for acquisitions more effectively and complete acquisitions more easily.•Aggressively price products and services and increase benefits in ways that we may not be able to match.9In order to compete effectively in our markets, we must target our potential customers carefully, continue to improve our efficiencies and the scope and quality of our services, and rely on our service quality, innovation, education and program clarity. If our competitive advantages are not compelling or sustainable, then we are unlikely to increase or sustain profits and our stock price could decline.In addition, heightened competition among our existing competitors, especially on a price basis, or by new entrants into the market, could create additional competitive pressures that may reduce our margins and adversely affect our business. If we fail to successfully respond to these competitive pressures or to implement our strategies effectively, our revenues or gross margins could be reduced.Our business is subject to risks associated with geographic market concentration.Geographic revenue in excess of 10% of the Company's consolidated revenue was generated in the following areas: 2015 2014North Carolina 11% 13%Rhode Island 17% 21%Texas 41% 33%Wisconsin 6% 11%Consequently, weakness in economic conditions in these regions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of future operations.A downturn of the U.S. or global economy could result in our customers using fewer workforce solutions and services or becoming unable to pay us for our services on a timely basis or at all, which would materially adversely affect our business. Because demand for workforce solutions and services, particularly staffing services, is sensitive to changes in the level of economic activity, our business may suffer during economic downturns. During periods of weak economic growth or economic contraction, the demand for our staffing services typically declines. When demand drops, our operating profit is typically impacted unfavorably as we experience a deleveraging of our selling and administrative expense base as expenses may not decline as quickly as revenues. In periods of decline, we can only reduce selling and administrative expenses to a certain level without negatively impacting the long-term potential of our branch network and brands. Additionally, during economic downturns companies may slow the rate at which they pay their vendors, or they may become unable to pay their obligations. If our customers become unable to pay amounts owed to us, or pay us more slowly, then our cash flow and profitability may suffer. Our service agreements may be terminated on short notice, leaving us vulnerable to loss of a significant amount of customers in a short period of time.Our service agreements with our customers are generally cancelable by the customer with little or no notice to us. As a result, a significant number of our customers can terminate their agreements with us at any time, making us particularly vulnerable to a significant decrease in revenue within a short period of time that could be difficult to quickly replace.If we are unable to retain existing customers or attract new customers, our results of operations could suffer. Increasing the growth and profitability of our business is particularly dependent upon our ability to retain existing customers and capture additional customers. Our ability to do so is dependent upon our ability to provide high quality services and offer competitive prices. If we are unable to execute these tasks effectively, we may not be able to attract a significant number of new customers and our existing customer base could decrease, either or both of which could have an adverse impact on our revenues.10We have significant working capital needs and if we are unable to satisfy those needs from cash generated from our operations or borrowings under our revolving line of credit, we may not be able to meet payroll requirements.We require significant amounts of working capital to operate our business. If we experience a significant and sustained drop in operating profits, or if there are unanticipated reductions in cash inflows or increases in cash outlays, we may be subject to cash shortfalls. If such a shortfall were to occur for even a brief period of time, it may have a significant adverse effect on our business. In particular, we use working capital to pay expenses relating to our temporary workers and to satisfy our workers’ compensation liabilities. Generally, we pay our temporary workers on a weekly basis while we receive payments from our customers 30 to 60 days after billing. As a result, we must maintain sufficient cash availability to pay temporary workers and fund related tax liabilities prior to receiving payment from customers.We derive working capital for our operations through cash generated by our operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. We believe that our current sources of capital are adequate to meet our working capital needs. However, our available sources of capital are limited. If our working capital needs increase in the future, we may be forced to seek additional sources of capital, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms.The amount we are entitled to borrow under our revolving credit facility is calculated monthly based on the aggregate value of certain eligible trade accounts receivable generated from our operations, which are affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, as well as by the daily timing of cash collections and cash outflows. The aggregate value of our eligible accounts receivable may not be adequate to allow for borrowings for other corporate purposes, such as capital expenditures or growth opportunities, which could reduce our ability to react to changes in the market or industry conditions.Our revolving credit facility includes various financial and other covenants with which the Company has to comply in order to maintain borrowing availability and avoid penalties, including minimum debt service coverage ratio, minimum current ratio and maximum leverage ratio, and restrictions on the payment of dividends.Any future failure to comply with the covenants which may occur under our revolving credit facility could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could trigger prepayment obligations. There can be no assurance that any future lender will waive defaults that may occur in the future. If we were forced to refinance our revolving credit facility, there can be no assurance that such refinancing would be available or that such refinancing would not have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Even if such refinancing were available, the terms could be less favorable and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by increased costs and interest rates.We typically experience significant seasonal and other fluctuations in our borrowings and borrowing availability, and have, in the past, been required to aggressively manage our cash flow to ensure adequate funds to meet working capital needs. Such management steps included working to improve collections, adjusting the timing of cash expenditures and reducing operating expenses where feasible.Failure to comply with restrictive covenants under our debt instruments could trigger prepayment obligations or additional costs.Our failure to comply with restrictive covenants under our credit agreements or other debt instruments could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in us being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. The lenders may require fees and expenses to be paid or other changes to terms in connection with waivers or amendments. If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by increased costs and rates.We could be required to write-off goodwill or intangible assets in future periods if our future operating results suffer.In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to review our goodwill and intangible assets for impairment at least annually. Our goodwill and intangibles assets were $9.2 million and $29.8 million, respectively, at the end of 2015. An unfavorable evaluation could cause us to write-off these assets in future periods. Any future write-offs could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.11The amount of collateral that we are required to maintain to support our workers’ compensation obligations could increase, reducing the amount of capital we have available to support and grow our field operations.We are contractually obligated to collateralize our workers’ compensation obligations under our workers’ compensation program through irrevocable letters of credit, surety bonds or cash. A significant portion of our workers’ compensation program renews annually on January 1 of each year, and as part of the renewal, could be subject to an increase in collateral. These collateral requirements are significant and place pressure on our liquidity and working capital capacity. We believe that our current sources of liquidity are adequate to satisfy our immediate needs for these obligations; however, our available sources of capital are limited. Depending on future changes in collateral requirements, we could be required to seek additional sources of capital in the future, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.We are dependent on workers’ compensation insurance coverage at commercially reasonable terms. We provide workers’ compensation insurance for our employees and temporary workers. Our workers’ compensation insurance policies are renewed annually. We cannot be certain we will be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future or that adequate replacement policies will be available on acceptable terms. The loss of our workers’ compensation insurance coverage would prevent us from doing business in the majority of our markets. Further, we cannot be certain that our current and former insurance carriers will be able to pay claims we make under such policies. Because we assume the obligation to make wage, tax and regulatory payments in respect of some employees, we are exposed to customer credit risks.We generally assume responsibility for and manage the risks associated with our employee payroll obligations, including liability for payment of salaries and wages (including payroll taxes), as well as group health and retirement benefits. These obligations are fixed, whether or not the customer makes payments required by our services agreement, which exposes us to credit risks. We attempt to mitigate this risk by generally invoicing our customers weekly. We also carefully monitor the timeliness of our customers’ payments and impose strict credit standards on our customers. If we fail to successfully manage our credit risk, we may suffer losses which would decrease our profitability.Our business is subject to federal, state and local labor and employment laws and a failure to comply could materially harm our business. Our business is subject to federal, state and local labor and employment laws and regulations. The cost to comply, and any inability to comply, with such laws and regulations could materially harm our business. Increased government regulation of the workplace or of the employer-employee relationship, or judicial or administrative proceedings related to such regulation, could materially harm our business. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the “Health Care Reform Laws”) include various health-related provisions that took effect during 2014, including requiring most individuals to have health insurance and establishing new regulations on health plans. Although the Health Care Reform Laws do not mandate that employers offer health insurance, beginning in 2015 tax penalties will be assessed on employers who do not offer health insurance that meets certain affordability or benefit requirements. Unless modified by regulations or subsequent legislation, providing such additional health insurance benefits to our temporary workers, or the payment of tax penalties if such coverage is not provided, may increase our costs. If we are unable to raise the rates we charge our customers to cover these costs, such increases in costs could materially harm our business. We may be exposed to employment-related claims and losses, including class action lawsuits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Temporary staffing service providers typically assign personnel in the workplaces of other businesses. The risks of these activities include possible claims relating to: •discrimination and harassment;•wrongful termination or denial of employment;•violations of employment rights related to employment screening or privacy issues;•classification of temporary workers;•assignment of illegal aliens;•violations of wage and hour requirements;•retroactive entitlement to temporary worker benefits;12•errors and omissions by our temporary workers;•misuse of customer proprietary information;•misappropriation of funds;•damage to customer facilities due to negligence of temporary workers; and•criminal activity.We may incur fines and other losses or negative publicity with respect to these problems. In addition, these claims may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming and expensive. New employment and labor laws and regulations may be proposed or adopted that may increase the potential exposure of employers to employment-related claims and litigation. There can be no assurance that the corporate policies we have in place to help reduce our exposure to these risks will be effective or that we will not experience losses as a result of these risks. There can also be no assurance that the insurance policies we have purchased to insure against certain risks will be adequate or that insurance coverage will remain available on reasonable terms or be sufficient in amount or scope of coverage. We depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified temporary workers. We depend on our ability to attract qualified temporary workers who possess the skills and experience necessary to meet the staffing requirements of our customers. We must continually evaluate our base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing customer needs. Competition for individuals with proven professional skills is intense, and demand for these individuals is expected to remain strong for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that qualified personnel will continue to be available. Our success is substantially dependent on our ability to recruit and retain qualified temporary workers. We would be adversely affected by the loss of key personnel. Our operations and financial success depends significantly on our management team. The loss of any key members of management could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We are dependent upon technology services, and if we experience damage, service interruptions or failures in our computer and telecommunications systems, or if our security measures are breached, our customer relationships and our ability to attract new customers may be adversely affected.Our business could be interrupted by damage to or disruption of our computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems, and we may lose data. Our customers’ businesses may be adversely affected by any system or equipment failure we experience. As a result of any of the foregoing, our relationships with our customers may be impaired, we may lose customers, our ability to attract new customers may be adversely affected and we could be exposed to contractual liability. Precautions in place to protect us from, or minimize the effect of, such events may not be adequate. In addition, our business involves the storage and transmission of customers’ proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to customer data, our reputation may be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and are growing increasingly sophisticated. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, we could be liable and the market perception of our services could be harmed.Acquisitions and new business initiatives may not be successful. We expect to continue making acquisitions and entering into new business initiatives as part of our long-term business strategy. These acquisitions and new business initiatives involve significant challenges and risks, including that they may not advance our business strategy, that we may not realize a satisfactory return on our investment, that we may experience difficulty in integrating operations, or diversion of management’s attention from our other business. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future. Moreover, acquisitions may require substantial capital expenditures and the incurrence of additional indebtedness which may change significantly our capitalization and results of operations. Further, these acquisitions could result in post-closing discovery of material undisclosed liabilities of the acquired business or assets, title or other defects with respect to acquired assets, discrepancies or errors in furnished financial statements or other information or breaches of representations made by the sellers, or the unexpected loss of key employees or customers from acquired businesses. These events could cause harm to our operating results or financial condition.13We have significant debt that could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations or put us at a competitive disadvantage. Our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our lenders could have a material impact on investors, including the requirement to use a portion of our cash flow from operations for debt service rather than for our operations and the need to comply with the various covenants associated with such debt. Additionally, we may not be able to obtain additional debt financing for future working capital, capital expenditures or other corporate purposes or may have to pay more for such financing. We could also be less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and to react to changes in market or industry conditions, or we may be disadvantaged compared to competitors with less leverage. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Securities An investment in our common stock should be considered illiquid and high risk. An investment in our common stock requires a long-term commitment, with no certainty of return. Because we did not become a public reporting company by the traditional means of conducting an underwritten initial public offering of our common stock, we may be unable to establish a liquid market for our common stock. In addition, investment banks may be less likely to agree to underwrite primary or secondary offerings on behalf of our company or its stockholders in the future than they would if we had become a public reporting company by means of an underwritten initial public offering of common stock. If all or any of the foregoing risks occur, it would have a material adverse effect on our company. Our common stock has only been traded on the NYSE MKT since October 27, 2014, and has traded in low volumes. We cannot predict whether an active trading market for our common stock will ever develop. Even if an active trading market develops, the market price of our common stock may be significantly volatile.In the absence of an active trading market:•you may have difficulty buying and selling our common stock at all or at the price you consider reasonable; •market visibility for shares of our common stock may be limited, which may have a depressive effect on the market price for shares of our common stock and on our ability to raise capital or make acquisitions by issuing our common stock. Even if an active market for our common stock develops, of which no assurances can be given, the market price for our common stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following:•actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; •changes in financial or operational estimates or projections; •conditions in markets generally; •changes in the economic performance or market valuations of companies similar to ours; and •general economic or political conditions in the United States or elsewhere. The securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of shares of our common stock.We will likely issue additional common stock in the future, which would dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders. In the future we may issue additional securities up to our total authorized and unissued amounts, including shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for our common stock, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our stockholders. We may issue additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for our common stock in connection with hiring or retaining personnel, option or warrant exercises, future acquisitions or future placements of our securities for capital-raising or other business purposes. Moreover, the exercise of our existing outstanding warrants and stock options, which are exercisable for or convertible into shares of our common stock, would dilute our existing common stockholders.14FINRA sales practice requirements may also limit your ability to buy and sell our common stock, which could depress the price of our shares. FINRA rules require broker-dealers to have reasonable grounds for believing that an investment is suitable for a customer before recommending that investment to the customer. Prior to recommending speculative low-priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status and investment objectives, among other things. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability such speculative low-priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. Thus, FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our shares, have an adverse effect on the market for our shares, and thereby depress our share price. Our compliance with complicated regulations concerning corporate governance and public disclosure has resulted in additional expenses. Moreover, our ability to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations is uncertain given our management’s relative inexperience with operating public companies. We are faced with expensive, complicated and evolving disclosure, governance and compliance laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which we refer to as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. New or changing laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards of a public company are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Our failure to comply with all laws, rules and regulations applicable to U.S. public companies could subject us or our management to regulatory scrutiny or sanction, which could harm our reputation and stock price. As an “emerging growth company” under applicable law, we will be subject to lessened disclosure requirements, which could leave our stockholders without information or rights available to stockholders of more mature companies. For as long as we remain an “emerging growth company” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (which we refer to herein as the JOBS Act), we have elected to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including, but not limited to: •not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act;•taking advantage of an extension of time to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards;•reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements; and•exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.We expect to take advantage of these exemptions until we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” Because of these lessened regulatory requirements, our stockholders will not have all the information and rights available to stockholders of more mature companies.Because we may elect to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards for an “emerging growth company” our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates. We may elect to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards under Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act. This election allows us to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until those standards apply to private companies. As a result of this election, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates. Because our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates, investors may have difficulty evaluating or comparing our business, performance or prospects in comparison to other public companies, which may have a negative impact on the value and liquidity of our common stock. 15There may be limitations on the effectiveness of our internal controls, and a failure of our control systems to prevent error or fraud may materially harm our company. Proper systems of internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure are critical to the operation of a public company. We are at the very early stages of establishing, and we may be unable to effectively establish such systems, especially in light of the fact that we must operate as a publicly reporting company. This would leave us without the ability to reliably compile financial information about our company and significantly impair our ability to prevent or detect errors and fraud, all of which would have a negative impact on our company from many perspectives. Moreover, we do not expect that disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, even if established, will prevent all errors and fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. Failure of our control systems to prevent and detect errors or fraud could materially adversely impact us. In the future, our auditors may be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and at such time our auditors may issue a report that is adverse in the event our auditors are not satisfied with the level at which our internal controls are documented, designed or operating, which could have an adverse impact on our stock price. Our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until, at the earliest, the date we are no longer an “emerging growth company” as defined in the recently enacted JOBS Act, if we take advantage (as we expect to do) of the exemptions contained in the JOBS Act. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating. Our remediation efforts may not enable us to avoid a material weakness in the future. We will remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years, although if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30 before that time, we would cease to be an “emerging growth company” as of the end of that fiscal year. Any of the foregoing occurrences, should they come to pass, could negatively impact the public perception of our company, which could have a negative impact on our stock price. We do not have an extended history of paying dividends on our common stock nor can we be sure we will pay them in the foreseeable future, and consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. While we have declared and paid dividends for the prior five quarterly periods, we are limited in our ability to pay dividends by our credit agreements, and therefore, we cannot be certain if we will pay any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Consequently, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investments. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares. Upon dissolution of our company, you may not recoup all or any portion of your investment. In the event of a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of our company, whether voluntary or involuntary, the proceeds and/or assets of our company remaining after giving effect to such transaction, and the payment of all of our debts and liabilities will be distributed to the stockholders of common stock on a pro rata basis. There can be no assurance that we will have available assets to pay to the holders of common stock, or any amounts, upon such a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of our company. In this event, you could lose some or all of your investment. 16Certain provisions of our organizational documents may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors and may discourage hostile takeover attempts that some of our stockholders may consider to be beneficial. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of us and our stockholders. The provisions in such certificate of incorporation and bylaws include, among other things, the following: •a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms;•the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without stockholder approval;•stockholder action can only be taken at a special or regular meeting and not by written consent except in limited circumstances;•advance notice procedures for nominating candidates to our board of directors or presenting matters at stockholder meetings;•removal of directors only for cause;•allowing only our board of directors to fill vacancies on our board of directors or increase the size of our board of directors; and•super-majority voting requirements to amend certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation.We have elected in our certificate of incorporation not to be subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”), a statutory provision that may have the effect of delaying, hindering or preventing some takeovers of our company. In general, Section 203 prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination, such as a merger, with a person or group owning 15% or more of the corporation’s voting stock for a period of three years following the date the person became an “interested stockholder,” unless (with certain exceptions) the business combination or the transaction in which the person became an “interested stockholder” is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, we will not be subject to any anti-takeover effects of Section 203. Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that have the same effect as Section 203, except that they generally provide that Taglich Private Equity LLC, Taglich Brothers, Inc. or any of their respective affiliates or associates, including any investment funds or portfolio companies managed by any of the foregoing, or any other person with whom any of the foregoing act as a group for the purpose of acquiring, voting or disposing of our shares, or any person that becomes an interested stockholder as a result of a transfer of 5% or more of our voting stock by the forgoing persons to such person, will be excluded from the “interested stockholder” definition in our certificate of incorporation and will therefore not be subject to the restrictions set forth therein that have the same effect as Section 203.While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of the stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 