Item 1A. Risk Factors.Set forth below are the risk factors that we believe are material to our investors. The occurrence of any of the risks discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends.4Table of ContentsRisks Related to Our Properties and OperationsThe outcome of exploring strategic alternatives is uncertain and exposes us to certain risks.As previously disclosed, on October 1, 2015, we announced that we have retained the Eastdil Secured division of Wells Fargo Securities as strategic advisor to identify and evaluate potential strategic transactions at the entity or asset level. Our board continues to explore and evaluate strategic alternatives to enhance stockholder value. There can be no assurance regarding the form or substance of any potential transaction or transactions that may be identified or consummated as a result of this process or how long the process may take. Our ability to identify and consummate a potential transaction or transactions is dependent upon a number of factors that may be beyond our control, including, among other factors, market conditions, industry trends and the interest of third parties in our company as a whole or our assets individually. In addition, any potential transaction or transactions may be subject to conditions including, if we pursue a sale of all or substantially all of our assets or a merger or business combination with a third party, stockholder approval. There can be no assurance we would be able to obtain the necessary approval.Further, the process of exploring strategic alternatives is time-consuming, requires our management to divert their focus from our day-to-day business, and results in us incurring expenses outside the normal course of operations, including expenses for our financial and legal advisors.All of our properties are located in the New York MSA, making us dependent upon the economic climate in New York City than if our investments were geographically diversified and subjecting us to significant competitive pressure.All of the real estate assets we own are located in the New York MSA. We are subject to risks generally inherent in concentrating investments in a certain geography. These risks resulting from a lack of diversification may become even greater in the event of a downturn in the commercial real estate industry and could significantly adversely affect the value of our properties. A downturn in New York City’s economy, in a submarket within New York City or in the overall national economy could, for example, result in reduced demand for office or lodging space. Likewise, declines in the financial services or media sectors may have a disproportionate adverse effect on the New York City real estate market. These adverse effects could be more pronounced than if we diversified our investments outside of New York City.Moreover, the New York City real estate market is highly competitive. With respect to the assets that we own, we compete for tenants based on a number of factors that include location, rental rates, security, suitability of the property’s design to prospective tenants’ needs and the manner in which the property is operated and marketed. The number of competing properties in the New York City market could have a material effect on our occupancy levels, rental rates and on property operating expenses. To the extent we engage in additional acquisition activities, we compete with many other entities including other REITs, specialty finance companies, savings and loan associations, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, mutual funds, institutional investors, investment banking firms and lenders. We also may compete with other entities advised or sponsored by affiliates of our Sponsor for properties or tenants. Many of these competitors have substantially greater marketing budgets and financial resources than we do.Competition from these and other third party real estate investors may limit the number of suitable investment opportunities available. It also may result in higher prices, lower yields and a narrower spread of yields over our borrowing costs, making it more difficult for us to acquire new investments on attractive terms. In addition, the number of competing properties in the New York MSA could have a material effect on our occupancy levels, rental rates and on the operating expenses of certain of our properties.Our ability to meet capital needs we may have in the future depends on our ability to raise additional capital.To qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our stockholders, on an annual basis, at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard for the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains. Thus, our ability to fund any capital needs we may have in the future from cash flows from operations will be limited. Consequently, we may need to rely on third-party sources to fund any capital needs in the future, and to fund the exercise of our option to purchase the balance of the equity interest in Worldwide Plaza. Failure to exercise this option will subject us to a fee equal to $25.0 million. The loan securing Worldwide Plaza includes provisions which could restrict our exercise of the option unless we prepay the loan or meet certain tests, including net worth tests, in order to assume the existing loan securing Worldwide Plaza. While we currently believe we meet such tests, there can be no assurance that we will meet them at the time that we desire to exercise the option, and the cost to prepay the loan securing Worldwide Plaza is likely to be significant.Our access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on:•general market conditions;•the market’s perception of our growth potential;•our ability to access the capital markets quickly, which may be limited due to our ineligibility to use our currently effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3 through April 2016;5Table of Contents•our current debt levels;•our current and expected future earnings;•our cash flow and cash dividends; and•the market price per share of our common stock. We may be unable to renew leases or re-lease space as leases expire and achieve our rental rate objectives on new and renewal leases.We may be unable to renew expiring leases on terms and conditions that are as, or more, favorable as the terms and conditions of the expiring leases. In addition, vacancies may occur at one or more of our properties due to a default by a tenant on its lease or expiration of a lease. Vacancies may reduce the value of a property as a result of reduced cash flow generated by the property.Tenant credit concentrations make us more susceptible to adverse events with respect to those tenants.As of December 31, 2015, the following tenants represented 5% or more of our total annualized cash rents:Tenant Percentage of Annualized Cash RentCravath, Swaine & Moore, LLP 16.0%Nomura Holding America Inc. 10.6%Twitter, Inc. 8.1%Macy's, Inc. 6.1%The financial failure of any or all of these tenants is likely to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. In addition, the value of our properties are driven in part by the credit quality of the underlying tenants, and an adverse change in the tenants' financial conditions or a decline in the credit rating of such tenants may result in a decline in the value of our properties.If a tenant declares bankruptcy, we may be unable to collect balances due under relevant leases.Any of our tenants, or any guarantor of a tenant's lease obligations, could be subject to a bankruptcy proceeding pursuant to Title 11 of the bankruptcy laws of the United States. A bankruptcy filing by one of our tenants or any guarantor of a tenant's lease obligations would bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from these entities or their properties, unless we receive an enabling order from the bankruptcy court. There is no assurance the tenant or its trustee would agree to assume the lease. If a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have a general unsecured claim for damages and it is unlikely we would receive any payments from the tenant.A tenant or lease guarantor bankruptcy could delay efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude full collection of these sums. A tenant or lease guarantor bankruptcy could cause a decrease or cessation of rental payments, which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to pay dividends.Our properties may be subject to impairment charges.We periodically evaluate our real estate investments for impairment indicators. The judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based on factors such as market conditions, tenant performance and legal structure. For example, the early termination of, or default under, a lease by a major tenant may lead to an impairment charge. If we determine that an impairment has occurred, we would be required to make a downward adjustment to the net carrying value of the property. Impairment charges also indicate a potential permanent adverse change in the fundamental operating characteristics of the impaired property. There is no assurance that these adverse changes will be reversed in the future and the decline in the impaired property’s value could be permanent.6Table of ContentsOur real estate investments are relatively illiquid and subject to some restrictions on sale, and therefore we may not be able to dispose of properties at the time of our choosing or on favorable terms.Investments in real properties are relatively illiquid. We may not be able to quickly alter our portfolio or generate capital by selling properties. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. If we need or desire to sell a real estate investment or real estate investments, we cannot predict whether we will be able to do so at a price or on the terms and conditions acceptable to us. We cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property or other real estate investment. In some circumstances, sales of a real estate investment or real estate investments may result in losses. Further, we may be required to invest capital to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct these defects or to make these improvements. Upon sales of properties or assets, we may become subject to contractual indemnity obligations and incur material liabilities and expenses, including tax liabilities, change of control costs, prepayment penalties, required debt repayments, transfer taxes and other transaction costs. See "—Risks Associated with Debt Financing and Investments — Covenants in the instruments governing our existing indebtedness could limit our operational flexibility or result in covenant breaches” and “—Risks Associated with Debt Financing and Investments — Our available capacity under our Credit Facility depends on our borrowing base properties."Moreover, applicable provisions of the Code impose restrictions on the ability of a REIT to dispose of properties that are not applicable to other types of real estate companies. Thus, we may be unable to realize our investment objectives by selling or otherwise disposing of or refinancing a property at attractive prices within any given period of time or may otherwise be unable to complete any exit strategy.We would need to raise additional capital to make acquisitions.While we are not currently pursuing acquisitions of assets while we consider strategic alternatives, we have limited capital available to acquire properties. To the extent we do acquire properties, our acquisition activities may be exposed to, and their success may be adversely affected by, the following risks:•we may acquire properties that are not accretive and we may not successfully manage and lease those properties to meet our expectations;•we may be unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, or obtain the necessary debt or equity financing to consummate an acquisition or, if obtainable, financing may not be on satisfactory terms;•we may need to spend more than budgeted amounts to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties;•agreements for the acquisition of properties are typically subject to customary conditions to closing, including satisfactory completion of due diligence investigations, and we may spend significant time and money on potential acquisitions that we do not consummate;•the process of acquiring or pursuing the acquisition of a new property may divert the attention of our management team from our existing business operations;•we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations;•market conditions may result in future vacancies and lower-than expected rental rates; and•we may acquire properties without recourse, or with only limited recourse, for liabilities, whether known or unknown, such as cleanup of environmental contamination, claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the former owners of the properties and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties.We rely on our Advisor to acquire properties on our behalf. Because the management personnel of our Advisor may also be engaged in the process of acquiring properties for other entities formed and managed by affiliates of our Advisor, we could suffer delays in locating suitable investments or may miss out on opportunities. If our Advisor is unable to obtain further suitable investments, we will not be able to continue to increase our asset base.We are dependent on our Advisor to provide us with executive officers and key personnel and our operating performance may be impacted by any adverse changes in the financial health of our Advisor.We have no employees. Personnel and services that we require are provided to us under contracts with our Advisor. We depend on our Advisor to manage our operations and acquire and manage our portfolio of real estate assets. Our Advisor makes all decisions with respect to the management of our company, subject to the supervision of, and any guidelines established by, our board of directors.7Table of ContentsOur success depends to a significant degree upon the contributions of our executive officers, including our chief executive officer, Michael A. Happel, our interim chief financial officer, Nicholas Radesca, our chief investment officer, Patrick O'Malley, and other key personnel of our Advisor and our Property Manager. Our executive officers are also executive officers of a non-traded REIT with similar investment objectives to ours which is sponsored and advised by entities under common control with our Sponsor and our Advisor. Competition for such skilled personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that our Advisor will be successful in attracting and retaining such skilled personnel capable of meeting the needs of our business. We cannot guarantee that all, or any particular one of these key personnel, will continue to provide services to us or our Advisor, and the loss of any of these key personnel could cause our operating results could suffer. Further, we have not and do not intend to separately maintain key person life insurance on any of our Advisor’s key personnel. Moreover, any adverse changes in the financial health of our Advisor or our Property Manager could negatively impact their ability to supply us with the key personnel necessary for successful operations.We also depend on these key personnel to maintain relationships with firms that have special expertise in certain services or detailed knowledge regarding real properties in the five boroughs of New York City, particularly in Manhattan. If we lose or are unable to obtain the services of highly skilled professionals capable of establishing or maintaining appropriate strategic relationships, our ability to acquire additional properties could be adversely affected and our results of operations could suffer.In addition, our Advisor depends upon the fees and other compensation that it receives from us in connection with the management of our business and sale of our properties to conduct its operations. Any adverse changes in the financial condition of, or our relationship with, our Advisor could hinder its ability to successfully manage our operations and our portfolio of investments. Additionally, changes in ownership or management practices, the occurrence of adverse events affecting our Advisor or its affiliates or other companies advised by our Advisor and its affiliates could create adverse publicity and adversely affect us and our relationship with lenders, tenants or counterparties.Our operating results are affected by economic and regulatory changes that have an adverse impact on the real estate market in general. These changes may impact our profitability and ability to realize growth in the value of our real estate properties.Our operating results are subject to risks generally incident to the ownership of real estate, including:•changes in general economic or local conditions;•changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing properties in an area;•changes in interest rates and availability of mortgage funds that may render the sale of a property difficult or unattractive;•increases in operating expenses;•vacancies and inability to lease or sublease space;•changes in tax, real estate, environmental and zoning laws; and•periods of high interest rates and tight money supply.Uninsured losses relating to real property or excessively expensive premiums for insurance coverage could reduce our cash flows and the return on our stockholders’ investments.Our general liability coverage, property insurance coverage and umbrella liability coverage on all our properties may not be adequate to insure against liability claims and provide for the costs of defense. Similarly, we may not have adequate coverage against the risk of direct physical damage or to reimburse us on a replacement cost basis for costs incurred to repair or rebuild each property. Moreover, there are types of losses, generally catastrophic in nature, such as losses due to wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution or environmental matters that are uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be insured subject to limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. Insurance risks associated with such catastrophic events could sharply increase the premiums we pay for coverage against property and casualty claims.This risk is particularly relevant with respect to potential acts of terrorism. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (the "TRIA"), under which the U.S. federal government bears a significant portion of insured losses caused by terrorism, will expire on December 31, 2020, and there can be no assurance that Congress will act to renew or replace the TRIA following its expiration. In the event that the TRIA is not renewed or replaced, terrorism insurance may become difficult or impossible to obtain at reasonable costs or at all, which may result in adverse impacts and additional costs to us.8Table of ContentsChanges in the cost or availability of insurance due to the non-renewal of the TRIA or for other reasons could expose us to uninsured casualty losses. If any of our properties incurs a casualty loss that is not fully insured, the value of our assets will be reduced by any such uninsured loss, which may reduce the value of our stockholders’ investments. In addition, other than any working capital reserve or other reserves we may establish, we have no source of funding to repair or reconstruct any uninsured property. Also, to the extent we must pay unexpectedly large amounts for insurance, we could suffer reduced earnings that would result in lower dividends to stockholders.Additionally, mortgage lenders insist in some cases that commercial property owners purchase coverage against terrorism as a condition for providing mortgage loans. Accordingly, to the extent terrorism risk insurance policies are not available at reasonable costs, if at all, our ability to finance or refinance our properties could be impaired. In such instances, we may be required to provide other financial support, either through financial assurances or self-insurance, to cover potential losses. We may not have adequate, or any, coverage for such losses.Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence, civilian unrest, or war may affect the markets in which we operate our business and our profitability.Our properties are located in the New York MSA which has experienced, and remains susceptible to, terrorist attacks. In addition, any kind of terrorist activity or violent criminal acts, including terrorist acts against public institutions or buildings or modes of public transportation (including airlines, trains or buses) could have a negative effect on our business. More generally, any terrorist attack, other act of violence or war, including armed conflicts, could result in increased volatility in, or damage to, the worldwide financial markets and economy.Costs of complying with governmental laws and regulations, including those relating to environmental matters and discovery of previously undetected environmentally hazardous conditions may adversely affect our operating results.Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations (including those of foreign jurisdictions), a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. The costs of removal or remediation could be substantial. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures. Environmental laws provide for sanctions for noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. Certain environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for release of and exposure to hazardous substances, including asbestos-containing materials into the air, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances.In addition, when excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing, as exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold at any of our projects could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected property or development project, which would adversely affect our operating results.The cost of defending against claims of liability, of compliance with environmental regulatory requirements, of remediating any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury claims could materially adversely affect our business, assets or results of operations and, consequently, amounts available for distribution to our stockholders.Environmental laws also may impose liens on property or restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures or prevent us or our Property Manager and its assignees from operating such properties. Some of these laws and regulations have been amended so as to require compliance with new or more stringent standards as of future dates. Compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations or stricter interpretation of existing laws may require us to incur material expenditures. Future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material environmental liability.Joint venture investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on the financial condition of co-venturers and disputes between us and our co-venturers.Our largest investment, representing 1.0 million of the 3.4 million rentable square feet in our portfolio as of December 31, 2015, is our 48.9% equity interest in the joint venture that owns Worldwide Plaza. We may enter into other partnerships and co-ownership arrangements (including preferred equity investments) in which we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority. Our interest in Worldwide Plaza (including our option to purchase the remaining 51.1% interest in Worldwide Plaza) is subject to significant transfer restrictions, which could adversely affect our ability to sell our interest on the most favorable terms without obtaining the consent of our joint venture partner or, in certain circumstances, lender.9Table of ContentsThese investments are subject to the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor the co-venturer would have full control over the joint venture. For example, under the Worldwide Plaza joint venture, our joint venture partner is the manager of the joint venture and is responsible for day-to-day management of Worldwide Plaza, although we have consent rights over all major decisions, such as the approval of the annual budget and any decision to sell or encumber the property. Investments in joint ventures may also, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt or fail to fund their required capital contributions. Co-venturers may have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Disputes between us and co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, actions by or disputes with co-venturers might result in subjecting properties owned by the joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our co-venturers.Potential changes in U.S. accounting standards regarding operating leases may make the leasing of our properties less attractive to our potential tenants, which could reduce overall demand for our leasing services.Under current authoritative accounting guidance for leases, a lease is classified by a tenant as a capital lease if the significant risks and rewards of ownership are considered to reside with the tenant. Under capital lease accounting for a tenant, both the leased asset and liability are reflected on their balance sheet. If the lease does not meet any of the criteria for a capital lease, the lease is considered an operating lease by the tenant, and the obligation does not appear on the tenant's balance sheet; rather, the contractual future minimum payment obligations are only disclosed in the footnotes thereto. The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") and the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB") conducted a joint project to re-evaluate lease accounting and have jointly released exposure drafts of a proposed accounting model that would significantly change lease accounting. In March 2014, the FASB and IASB deliberated aspects of the joint project, including the lessee and lessor accounting models, lease term, and exemptions and simplifications. The final standards were released in February 2016. Changes to the accounting guidance could affect both our accounting for leases as well as that of our current and potential tenants. These changes may affect how the real estate leasing business is conducted. For example, if the accounting standards regarding the financial statement classification of operating leases are revised, then companies may be less willing to enter into leases in general or desire to enter into leases with shorter terms because the apparent benefits to their balance sheets could be reduced or eliminated. This in turn could make it more difficult for us to enter into leases on terms we find favorable.There are costs associated with complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the "Disabilities Act").Our properties are subject to the Disabilities Act. Under the Disabilities Act, all places of public accommodation are required to comply with federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. The Disabilities Act has separate compliance requirements for "public accommodations" and "commercial facilities" that generally require that buildings and services, including restaurants and retail stores, be made accessible and available to people with disabilities. The Disabilities Act's requirements could require removal of access barriers and could result in the imposition of injunctive relief, monetary penalties, or, in some cases, an award of damages. There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire properties in compliance with the Disabilities Act or allocate the burden on the seller or other third party, such as a tenant, to ensure compliance with the Disabilities Act. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire properties or allocate responsibilities in this manner.Our business could suffer in the event our Advisor or any other party that provides us with services essential to our operations experiences system failures or cyber-incidents or a deficiency in cybersecurity.Despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for the internal information technology systems of our Advisor and other parties that provide us with services essential to our operations are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. Any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business.A cyber-incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity or availability of information resources. More specifically, a cyber-incident is an intentional attack or an unintentional event that can result in third parties gaining unauthorized access to systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data or steal confidential information. As reliance on technology in our industry has increased, so have the risks posed to the systems of our Advisor and other parties that provide us with services essential to our operations, both internal and those that have been outsourced. In addition, the risk of a cyber-incident, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. Even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because the techniques used in such attempted attacks and intrusions evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected.10Table of ContentsThe remediation costs and lost revenues experienced by a victim of a cyber-incident may be significant and significant resources may be required to repair system damage, protect against the threat of future security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm, loss of revenues and litigation, caused by any breaches. In addition, a security breach or other significant disruption involving the IT networks and related systems of our Advisor or any other party that provides us with services essential to our operations could:•result in misstated financial reports, violations of loan covenants, missed reporting deadlines and/or missed permitting deadlines;•affect our ability to properly monitor our compliance with the rules and regulations regarding our qualification as a REIT;•result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of, proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information (including information about guests at our hotel or tenants), which others could use to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes;•result in our inability to maintain the building systems relied upon by our tenants for the efficient use of their leased space;•require significant management attention and resources to remedy any damages that result;•subject us to claims for breach of contract, damages, credits, penalties or termination of leases or other agreements; or•adversely impact our reputation among our tenants, guests at our hotel and investors generally.Although our Advisor and other parties that provide us with services essential to our operations intend to continue to implement industry-standard security measures, there can be no assurance that those measures will be sufficient, and any material adverse effect experienced by our Advisor and other parties that provide us with services essential to our operations could, in turn, have an adverse impact on us.Any hedging strategies we utilize may not be successful in mitigating our risks.We have entered into hedging transactions to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or own real estate assets. To the extent that we use derivative financial instruments in connection with these risks, we are exposed to credit, basis and legal enforceability risks. Derivative financial instruments may include interest rate swap contracts, interest rate cap or floor contracts, futures or forward contracts, options or repurchase agreements. In this context, credit risk is the failure of the counterparty to perform under the terms of the derivative contract. If the fair value of a derivative contract is positive, the counterparty owes us, which creates credit risk for us. Basis risk occurs when the index upon which the contract is based is more or less variable than the index upon which the hedged asset or liability is based, thereby making the hedge less effective. Finally, legal enforceability risks encompass general contractual risks, including the risk that the counterparty will breach the terms of, or fail to perform its obligations under, the derivative contract. We may not be able to manage these risks effectively.Risks Related to Conflicts of InterestOur Sponsor, Advisor, executive officers and other key personnel face conflicts of interest relating to the purchase and leasing of properties, and these conflicts may not be resolved in our favor, which could adversely affect our investment opportunities.To the extent we seek out additional investment opportunities, we rely on the executive officers and other key professionals at our Advisor and our Property Manager to identify suitable investment opportunities for us. Several of the other key professionals of our Advisor are also the key professionals at the parent of our Sponsor and their other public programs, and our executive officers are also executive officers of American Realty Capital New York City REIT, Inc. ("ARC NYCR"), which is a non-traded REIT sponsored by the parent of our Sponsor that has investment objectives similar to ours. The Allocation Agreement provides that acquisitions of properties identified for acquisition by our Advisor or the advisor to ARC NYCR requires rotation among us and this entity depending on which one of us has sufficient capital to acquire all or some of the property acquisitions and which of us most recently made a property acquisition. As a result, we may not be able to acquire a property that we desire because of this agreement.In addition, other programs sponsored by the parent of our Sponsor that are not parties to the Allocation Agreement own properties, or may seek to acquire properties, in the New York MSA. Thus, a conflict could arise between us and one or more of these programs sponsored by the parent of our Sponsor to acquire or sell a property, lease vacant space or renew existing leases. Conflicts of interest also may exist at such time as we or our affiliates managing properties on our behalf seek to employ developers, contractors or building managers, as well as under other circumstances. Also, we may acquire properties from, or sell properties to, other programs sponsored by the parent of our Sponsor.11Table of ContentsOur officers and directors face conflicts of interest related to the positions they hold with our Advisor, our Property Manager and other affiliated entities, which could hinder our ability to successfully implement our business strategy.Certain of our executive officers, including Michael A. Happel, our chief executive officer and president, Nicholas Radesca, our interim chief financial officer, and Patrick O'Malley, our chief investment officer, also are officers of our Advisor, our Property Manager and other affiliated entities, including the advisor and property manager of ARC NYCR, which is a non-traded REIT sponsored by our Sponsor that has investment objectives similar to ours. Some of our directors also are directors of other non-traded REITs sponsored by affiliates of the parent of our Sponsor. As a result, these individuals owe fiduciary duties to these other entities and their stockholders, which may result in them taking actions or making decisions that conflict with the duties that they owe to us and our stockholders.These conflicts could result in actions or inactions that are detrimental to our business. Conflicts with our business and interests are most likely to arise from involvement in activities related to (a) allocation of investments and management time and services between us and the other entities, (b) our purchase of properties from, or sale of properties, to entities sponsored by affiliates of our Advisor, (c) the timing and terms of the investment in or sale of an asset, (d) investments with entities sponsored by affiliates of our Advisor, (e) compensation to our Advisor and its affiliates including our Property Manager, and (f) any decision to sell our company or sell all, or substantially all, of our assets.Moreover, the management of multiple REITs by certain of the officers and other key personnel of our Advisor may significantly reduce the amount of time they are able to spend on our activities.Our Advisor and its affiliates face conflicts of interest relating to the structure of the fees they receive, which could result in actions that are not necessarily in the long-term best interests of our stockholders.Under our advisory agreement, the partnership agreement of our OP, and the OPP (as defined herein), our Advisor and its affiliates are entitled to certain fees and other compensation which, because the Advisor does not maintain a significant equity interest in us and is entitled to receive substantial minimum compensation regardless of performance, may result in its interests not being wholly aligned with those of our stockholders. For example, our Advisor could be motivated to recommend riskier or more speculative investments with the hope that doing so will result in us generating the specified levels of total return that would entitle our Advisor to certain incentive fees and compensation as well as increase the number of LTIP units (as defined herein) that the Advisor would earn. In addition, our advisory agreement, property management agreement and other agreements with our Advisor and its affiliates include covenants and conditions that are subject to interpretation and could result in disagreements.Moreover, the OPP provides for early calculation of earned LTIP units and for the accelerated vesting of any earned LTIP units in the event the Advisor is terminated or in the event of a change in control of our company, which could motivate our Advisor to recommend a transaction that would result in a change in control under the OPP when such a transaction would not otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders.See Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence — 2014 Advisor Multi-Year Outperformance Agreement. Risks Related to our Corporate Structure and Common StockWe may be unable to pay or maintain dividends from cash available from operations or increase dividends over time.Many factors affect our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. We have not generated and may not in the future generate operating cash flows sufficient to continue to pay dividends to our stockholders at the current rate. During 2015, our dividends were paid from a combination of cash flow from our operations, proceeds from the redemption of our preferred equity investment and distributions in respect of our interest in Worldwide Plaza, but we have in the past been, and may again in the future be, required to borrow funds to fund dividends. During 2016, we do not expect to have sufficient cash flow from operations to pay dividends at our current rate. We expect to be able to pay dividends from a combination of cash flow from operations and cash on hand. Actual cash available for dividends may vary substantially from our estimates. If our cash flow from operations and cash on hand are not sufficient, we may need to borrow funds, potentially at higher rates, or depend on our Advisor or our Property Manager to waive fees or reimbursement of certain expenses, which they are not required to do, to fund our operations and any dividends to our stockholders. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain funds from such sources, or pay or maintain our current level of dividends. Moreover, our failure to meet the market’s expectations with regard to future earnings and cash dividends likely would adversely affect the market price of our common stock.12Table of ContentsThe trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may fluctuate.The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations have in the past and may in the future adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect the price of our common stock are:•our financial condition and performance;•the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults;•actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition;•our dividend policy;•the reputation of REITs and real estate investments generally and the attractiveness of REIT equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies, and fixed income securities;•our reputation and the reputation of our Sponsor, Advisor and their affiliates;•uncertainty and volatility in the equity and credit markets;•fluctuations in interest rates;•uncertainty related to our strategic alternatives process;•changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other REITs;•future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur;•failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates;•speculation in the press or investment community;•strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;•the extent of institutional investor interest in us;•the extent of short-selling of our common stock and the shares of our competitors;•fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors;•general financial and economic market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for REITs and other real estate related companies;•domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; and•all other risk factors addressed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for our stockholders.We depend on our OP and its subsidiaries for cash flow and are structurally subordinated in right of payment to the obligations of our OP and its subsidiaries.Our only significant asset is the general partnership interests we own in our OP and assets held by us for the use and benefit of our OP. We conduct, and intend to continue conducting, all of our business operations through our OP. Accordingly, we rely on distributions from our OP and its subsidiaries of their net earnings and cash flows. The limited partnership units of the OP entitled "OP Units" ("OP units") owned by our Advisor and its affiliates and employees are also entitled to distributions from the OP in the same amount as dividends paid on shares of our common stock. Until such time as the limited partnership units of the OP entitled "LTIP Units" ("LTIP units") held by our Advisor are fully earned in accordance with the provisions of the OPP, the LTIP units are entitled to distributions equal to 10% of the distributions made on the OP units. After the LTIP units are fully earned, they are entitled to a catch-up distribution and then the same distributions as the OP units.13Table of ContentsThere is no assurance that our OP or its subsidiaries will be able to, or be permitted to, pay distributions to us that will enable us to pay dividends to our stockholders or distributions to holders of OP units and holders of LTIP units from cash flows from operations or otherwise pay any other obligations. Each of our OP's subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from these entities. In addition, because we are a holding company, stockholder claims will be structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations of our OP and its subsidiaries. Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, our assets and those of our OP and its subsidiaries will be able to satisfy stockholder claims as stockholders only after all of our and our OP's and its subsidiaries liabilities and obligations have been paid in full.Existing stockholders’ interests will be diluted if we issue additional shares.Existing stockholders do not have preemptive rights to any shares issued by us in the future. Our charter currently authorizes us to issue 350 million shares of stock, of which 300 million shares are classified as common stock and 50 million are classified as preferred stock. Our board of directors may amend our charter from time to time to increase or decrease the aggregate number of authorized shares of stock, or the number of authorized shares of any class or series of stock, or may classify or reclassify any unissued shares into the classes or series of stock without the necessity of obtaining stockholder approval. Except for preferred stock, all of our shares may be issued in the discretion of our board of directors. Existing stockholders likely will suffer dilution of their equity investment in us, if we: (a) sell additional shares in the future; (b) sell securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock; (c) issue shares of our common stock in a private offering of securities to institutional investors; (d) issue restricted share awards to our directors; or (e) issue shares to our Advisor or its affiliates, successors or assigns, in payment of an outstanding fee obligation as set forth under our advisory agreement or other agreements.In addition, we may issue shares of our common stock in connection with an exchange of OP units. The holders of outstanding OP units generally may, subject to certain restrictions, exchange OP units for the cash value of a corresponding number of shares of our common stock or, at the election of our OP, a corresponding number of shares of our common stock. Following redemptions of OP units that resulted in issuance of 2,515,406 shares of common stock during February 2016 to individual members and employees of the Advisor, the Advisor and its affiliates, including certain of our current and former directors and executive officers, owned 1,662,684 OP units. As of December 31, 2015, individual members of our Advisor, including our chief executive officer, and William M. Kahane, one of our directors, also owned 8,880,579 LTIP units, which were issued to our Advisor in connection with the listing of our common stock in April 2014 (the "Listing"). LTIP units are convertible into OP units subject to being earned and vested and several other conditions. We may also issue OP units to sellers of properties acquired by us.If we issue preferred stock, the holders thereof will, upon liquidation, be entitled to receive distributions of liquidation proceeds prior to distribution to the holders of our common stock. Additionally, any preferred stock including convertible preferred stock or other securities convertible, exercisable or exchangeable for common stock that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock and will result in dilution to owners of our common stock if converted, exercised or exchanged for common stock. Any preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that could limit our ability pay dividends to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the value of our common stock and diluting the interest of existing stockholders.Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to recover claims against our officers, directors and our Advisor are limited, which could reduce recoveries against them if they cause us to incur losses.Maryland law provides that a director has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in the corporation's best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. In addition, subject to certain limitations set forth therein or under Maryland law, our charter provides that no director or officer will be liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages and requires us to indemnify our directors, our officers and our Advisor and our Advisor's affiliates and permits us to indemnify our employees and agents. We and our stockholders also may have more limited rights against our directors, officers, employees and agents, and our Advisor and its affiliates, than might otherwise exist under common law, which could reduce recoveries against them. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors, officers, employees and agents, or our Advisor and its affiliates in some cases.14Table of ContentsThe limit on the number of shares a person may own may discourage a takeover that could otherwise result in a premium price to our stockholders.Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person may own more than 9.8% in value of the aggregate of the outstanding shares of our stock or more than 9.8% (in value or number, whichever is more restrictive) of any class or series of the outstanding shares of our stock. This restriction may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all our assets) that might provide a premium price for holders of our common stock. Similarly, this restriction further limits a stockholder's ability to sell shares.Maryland law prohibits certain business combinations, which may make it more difficult for us to be acquired.Under Maryland law, "business combinations" between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. An interested stockholder is defined as:•any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's outstanding voting stock; or•an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then-outstanding stock of the corporation.A person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which he or she otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. However, in approving a transaction, the board of directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board of directors.After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least:•80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation; and•two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder.These super-majority vote requirements do not apply if the corporation's common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined under Maryland law, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder for its shares. The business combination statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by the board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Pursuant to the statute, our board of directors has exempted any business combination involving our Advisor or any affiliate of our Advisor. Consequently, the five-year prohibition and the super-majority vote requirements will not apply to business combinations between us and our Advisor or any affiliate of our Advisor. As a result, our Advisor and any of its affiliates may be able to enter into business combinations with us that may not be in the best interest of our stockholders, without compliance with the super-majority vote requirements and the other provisions of the statute. The business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer.Maryland law limits the ability of a third-party to buy a large stake in us and exercise voting power in electing directors, which may discourage a takeover that could otherwise result in a premium price to our stockholder.The Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act provides that "control shares" of a Maryland corporation acquired in a "control share acquisition" have no voting rights except to the extent approved by the affirmative vote of stockholders entitled to cast two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Shares of stock owned by the acquirer, by officers or by employees who are directors of the corporation, are excluded from shares entitled to vote on the matter. "Control shares" are voting shares of stock which, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned by the acquirer or in respect of which the acquirer can exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquirer to exercise voting power in electing directors within specified ranges of voting power. Control shares do not include shares the acquiring person is then entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained stockholder approval. A "control share acquisition" means the acquisition of issued and outstanding control shares. The control share acquisition statute does not apply (a) to shares acquired in a merger, consolidation or share exchange if the corporation is a party to the transaction, or (b) to acquisitions approved or exempted by the charter or bylaws of the corporation. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Control Share Acquisition Act any and all acquisitions of our stock by any person. There can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future.15Table of ContentsOffice Industry RisksDeclines in overall activity in the New York MSA may adversely affect the performance of our office properties.A total of 82% of our properties measured by rentable square feet as of December 31, 2015 were comprised of commercial office properties located in the New York MSA. Rental income from office properties fluctuates with general market and economic conditions. Our office properties may be adversely affected by market or economic challenges experienced by the U.S. economy or real estate industry as a whole. Because our portfolio includes commercial office buildings located in the New York MSA, which has a relatively large number of financial and professional services sector, significant job losses in the financial and professional services sector, which may decrease demand for office space, causing market rental rates and property values to be negatively impacted.We also may experience a decrease in occupancy and rental rates accompanied by increases in the cost of re-leasing space (including for tenant improvements) and in uncollectible receivables. Early lease terminations may significantly contribute to a decline in occupancy of our office properties and may adversely affect our profitability. While lease termination fees increase current period income, future rental income may be diminished because, during periods in which market rents decline, it is unlikely that we will collect from replacement tenants the full contracted amount which had been payable under the terminated leases.The loss of anchor tenants for our office properties could adversely affect our profitability.A lease termination by a tenant that occupies a large area of space in one of our office properties (commonly referred to as an anchor tenant) could impact leases of other tenants. Other tenants may be entitled to modify the terms of their existing leases in the event of a lease termination by an anchor tenant or the closure of the business of an anchor tenant that leaves its space vacant, even if the anchor tenant continues to pay rent. Any such modifications or conditions could be unfavorable to us as the property owner and could decrease rents or expense recoveries. In the event of default by an anchor tenant, we may experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord to recover amounts due to us under the terms of our agreements with those parties.We may be adversely affected by certain trends that reduce demand for office real estate.Some businesses are rapidly evolving to increasingly permit employee telecommuting, flexible work schedules, open workplaces and teleconferencing. These practices enable businesses to reduce their space requirements. A continuation of the movement towards these practices could over time erode the overall demand for office space and, in turn, place downward pressure on occupancy, rental rates and property valuations.Retail Industry RisksRetail conditions may adversely affect our income.A total of 10% of our property holdings measured by rentable square feet as of December 31, 2015 is comprised of commercial retail properties located in the New York MSA. A retail property's revenues and value may be adversely affected by a number of factors, many of which apply to real estate investment generally, but which also include trends in the retail industry and perceptions by retailers or shoppers of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of the retail property. In addition, to the extent that the investing public has a negative perception of the retail sector, the value of our common stock may be negatively impacted.Some of our leases provide for base rent plus contractual base rent increases. We also have leases that include provisions for the tenant to pay contingent rental income based on a percent of the tenant's sales upon the achievement of certain sales thresholds or other targets which may be monthly, quarterly or annual targets. Under those leases which contain contingent rent clauses, our revenue from tenants may increase as the sales of our tenants increase. Generally, retailers face declining revenues during downturns in the economy. As a result, the portion of our revenue which we derive from contingent rent leases could decline in a general economic downturn.16Table of ContentsOur revenue will be impacted by the success and economic viability of our anchor retail tenants. Our reliance on single or significant tenants in certain buildings may decrease our ability to lease vacated space.In the retail sector, any tenant occupying a large portion of the gross leasable area of a retail center, a tenant of any of the triple-net single-user retail properties outside the primary geographical area of investment, commonly referred to as an anchor tenant, or a tenant that is our anchor tenant at more than one retail center, may become insolvent, may suffer a downturn in business, or may decide not to renew its lease. Any of these events would result in a reduction or cessation in rental payments to us and would adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. A lease termination by an anchor tenant could result in lease terminations or reductions in rent by other tenants whose leases permit cancellation or rent reduction if another tenant's lease is terminated. We may own properties where the tenants may have rights to terminate their leases if certain other tenants are no longer open for business. These "co-tenancy" provisions also may exist in some leases where we own a portion of a retail property and one or more of the anchor tenants leases space in that portion of the center not owned or controlled by us. If such tenants were to vacate their space, tenants with co-tenancy provisions would have the right to terminate their leases with us or seek a rent reduction from us. In such event, we may be unable to re-lease the vacated space. Similarly, the leases of some anchor tenants may permit the anchor tenant to transfer its lease to another retailer. The transfer to a new anchor tenant could cause customer traffic in the retail center to decrease and thereby reduce the income generated by that retail center. A lease transfer to a new anchor tenant could also allow other tenants to make reduced rental payments or to terminate their leases at the retail center. If we are unable to re-lease the vacated space to a new anchor tenant, we may incur additional expenses in order to re-model the space to be able to re-lease the space to more than one tenant.Competition with other retail channels may reduce our profitability. Our retail tenants face potentially changing consumer preferences and increasing competition from other forms of retailing, such as retailing conducted through internet websites (which we refer to as e-commerce), discount shopping centers, outlet centers, upscale neighborhood strip centers, catalogues and other forms of direct marketing, discount shopping clubs and telemarketing. Other retail centers within the market area of our properties may compete with our properties for customers, affecting their tenants' cash flows and thus affecting their ability to pay rent. In addition, some of our tenants' rent payments may be based on the amount of sales revenue that they generate. If these tenants experience competition, the amount of their rent may decrease and our cash flow will decrease.E-commerce can have an impact on our business.The use of the internet by consumers continues to gain popularity. The migration towards e-commerce is expected to continue. This increase in internet sales could result in a downturn in the business of our current tenants in their "brick and mortar" locations and could affect the way future tenants lease space.While we devote considerable effort and resources to analyze and respond to tenant trends, preferences and consumer spending patterns, we cannot predict with certainty what future tenants will want, what future retail spaces will look like and how much revenue will be generated at traditional "brick and mortar" locations. If we are unable to anticipate and respond promptly to trends in the market, our occupancy levels and financial results could suffer.Lodging Industry RisksOur hotel is subject to all the risks common to the hotel industry and subject to market conditions that affect all hotel properties.One of the properties we own is a hotel located in New York City that is subject to all the risks of the hotel industry, particularly the hotel industry in the New York MSA, which may include:•increases in supply of hotel rooms that exceed increases in demand;•increases in energy costs and other travel expenses that reduce business and leisure travel;•reduced business and leisure travel due to continued geo-political uncertainty, including terrorism, or for other reasons;•reduced business and leisure travel from other countries to the United States due to the strength of the U.S. Dollar as compared to the currencies of other countries;•adverse effects of declines in general and local economic activity;17Table of Contents•increased competition from other existing hotels in our markets and with alternative lodging companies, such as Airbnb;•new hotels entering our markets, which may adversely affect the occupancy levels and average daily rates of our lodging properties;•an increase in internet bookings, which may enable internet booking intermediaries to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from our third-party hotel property manager;•increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors that may not be offset by increased room rates;•unavailability of labor;•changes in, and the related costs of compliance with, governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances;•inability to adapt to dominant trends in the hotel industry or introduce new concepts and products that take advantage of opportunities created by changing consumer spending patterns and demographics; and•adverse effects of international, national, regional and local economic and market conditions.In addition, the hotel industry may be adversely affected by factors outside of our control, such as extreme weather conditions or natural disasters, terrorist attacks or alerts, outbreaks of contagious diseases, airline strikes, economic factors and other considerations affecting travel.As a REIT, we cannot directly or indirectly operate our lodging property.We cannot and do not directly or indirectly operate our lodging property and instead must rely on the ability of a third-party hotel management company to operate our lodging property successfully. In order for us to satisfy certain REIT qualification rules, we cannot directly or indirectly operate any lodging property or actively participate in the decisions affecting its daily operations. Any lodging properties that we own or may acquire are or will be leased to one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries ("TRSs"), which enter into hotel management agreements with third-party hotel management companies to operate the properties that we lease to a TRS. We cannot and do not control these third-party hotel management companies, who are responsible for maintenance and other day-to-day management including, but not limited to, the implementation of significant operating decisions. Thus, even if we believe our lodging property is being operated inefficiently or in a manner that does not result in satisfactory operating results, we may not be able to require the third-party hotel management company to change its method of operation. Any negative publicity or other adverse developments that affect that operator generally may adversely affect the performance of our lodging property.We rely on a third-party hotel management company to establish and maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting at our lodging property. We do not, however, control the design or implementation of or changes to these internal controls. We may not be able to require the third-party hotel management company to change its internal control structure. This could require us to implement extensive and possibly inefficient controls at a parent level in an attempt to mitigate such deficiencies. If such controls are not effective, the accuracy of the results of our operations that we report could be affected. Accordingly, our ability to conclude that, as a company, our internal controls are effective is significantly dependent upon the effectiveness of internal controls that our third-party hotel management company has implemented at our lodging property. It is possible that we could have a significant deficiency or material weakness as a result of the ineffectiveness of the internal controls at our lodging property.If we replace a third-party hotel management company, we may be required by the terms of the relevant management agreement to pay substantial termination fees, and we may experience significant disruptions at the affected lodging properties. We may not be able to make arrangements with a third-party hotel management company with substantial prior lodging experience in the future and could experience disruptions in our operations.Our use of the TRS structure increases our expenses.A TRS structure subjects us to the risk of increased lodging operating expenses. The performance of any TRS is based on the operations of the applicable lodging property. Our operating risks include not only changes in hotel revenues and changes to our TRSs' ability to pay the rent due to us under the leases, but also increased hotel operating expenses, including, but not limited to, the following cost elements:• wage and benefit costs;• repair and maintenance expenses;• energy costs;• property taxes;• insurance costs; and18Table of Contents• other operating expenses.There are risks associated with employing hotel employees.We are generally subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel employees. The lodging properties we acquire are leased to one or more TRSs, which enter into hotel management agreements with third-party hotel management companies to operate the lodging properties that we lease to a TRS. Hotel operating revenues and expenses for these properties are included in our consolidated results of operations. As a result, although we do not directly employ or manage the labor force at our lodging properties, we are subject to many of the costs and risks generally associated with the hotel labor force. Our third-party property manager is responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each our lodging properties and for establishing and maintaining the appropriate processes and controls over such activities. From time to time, the operations of our lodging properties may be disrupted through strikes, public demonstrations or other labor actions and related publicity. We may also incur increased legal costs and indirect labor costs as a result of the aforementioned disruptions, or contract disputes or other events. Our third-party property manager may be targeted by union actions or adversely impacted by the disruption caused by organizing activities.Risks Associated with Debt Financing and InvestmentsWe have outstanding debt, and the amount of debt and its cost may increase and refinancing may not be available on acceptable terms.Our business is subject to risks normally associated with debt financing. The total principal amount of our combined outstanding indebtedness, which generally comprises mortgage loans on our properties, our pro rata share of Worldwide Plaza's indebtedness and the term loan and revolving components of our Credit Facility with Capital One, was $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2015. We rely on both secured and unsecured, variable rate and non-variable rate debt to finance acquisitions and development activities and for working capital. We have also funded a portion of the dividends that we have paid in the past with the proceeds from borrowings. We may also borrow if we need funds to satisfy the REIT tax qualification requirement that we distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income to our stockholders. We also may borrow if we otherwise deem it necessary or advisable to assure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT.We may be unable to obtain debt financing or refinance existing indebtedness upon maturity. Our substantial indebtedness and the cash flow associated with serving our indebtedness could have important consequences, including the risks that:•our cash flow could be insufficient to pay dividends at expected levels and meet required payments of principal and interest;•our debt financing contains prepayment penalties, assumption fees or other provisions that restrict our ability to transfer assets;•we might be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund our business, including acquisitions, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;•our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, satisfaction of debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes could be limited;•our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be better positioned to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting;•we may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness (which requires substantial principal payments at maturity) and, if we can, the terms of such refinancing might not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness;•if principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or paid with proceeds of other capital transactions, such as new equity capital, our cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to repay all maturing debt; and•prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the possible reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) may result in higher interest rates, which could adversely affect net income, cash flow and our ability to service debt and pay dividends to stockholders.19Table of ContentsIn addition, incurring mortgage debt increases the risk of loss since defaults on indebtedness secured by a property may result in lenders initiating foreclosure actions. In that case, we could lose the property securing the loan that is in default, thus reducing the value of an investment in our common stock. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds. In such event, we may be unable to pay the amount of dividends required in order to maintain our REIT status. We may give full or partial guarantees to lenders of mortgage debt to the entities that own our properties. If we provide a guaranty on behalf of an entity that owns one of our properties, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by such entity. If any mortgages contain cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions, a default on a single property could affect multiple properties. If any of our properties are foreclosed upon due to a default, our ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders will be adversely affected which could result in our losing our REIT status and would result in a decrease in the value of an investment in our common stock.Covenants in the instruments governing our existing indebtedness could limit our operational and financial flexibility or result in covenant breaches.Our Credit Facility contains certain financial and operating covenants that limit our financial and operational flexibility. The operating covenants limit our ability to incur secured and unsecured debt, sell all or substantially all of our assets, make restricted payments (including dividends to our stockholders), engage in mergers and consolidations, enter into transactions with affiliates and take certain other actions. In addition, our Credit Facility requires us to meet certain financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios (such as specified debt to equity and debt service coverage ratios) as well as the maintenance of a minimum net worth. Additionally, we may be restricted from selling additional properties without amending or repaying our Credit Facility because of requirements in our Credit Facility as to the minimum number of properties in our borrowing base. The mortgage loans we have, or may in the future enter into, include, and may include, other financial and operating covenants, including transfer restrictions. The mortgages relating to many of the properties we have acquired include restrictions, such as prepayment penalties or assumption fees, that could affect our ability to sell properties or the net proceeds we would realize upon a sale.These covenants may restrict our ability to pursue certain business initiatives or certain acquisition transactions that would otherwise be in our best interest and adversely affect our ability to complete sales of our assets. In the event that we fail to satisfy our covenants, we would be in default under our unsecured Credit Facility and may be required to repay our indebtedness with capital from other sources. Under such circumstances, other sources of debt or equity capital may not be available to us, or may be available only on unattractive terms.Our available capacity under our Credit Facility depends on our borrowing base properties.As of December 31, 2015, the outstanding balance of the term loan and revolving components of our Credit Facility was $305.0 million and $180.0 million, respectively. While the aggregate commitments under the Credit Facility allow for total borrowings of up to $705.0 million with a $305.0 million term loan and a $400.0 million revolving loan and contain an “accordion feature” to allow us, under certain circumstances and to the extent agreed to by our lenders, to increase the aggregate loan borrowings to up to $1.0 billion of total borrowings, the actual availability of borrowings under our Credit Facility for any period is based on requirements outlined in our Credit Facility with respect to the pool of eligible unencumbered assets that comprise our borrowing base properties. The unused borrowing capacity, based on the debt service coverage ratio of the borrowing base properties as of December 31, 2015, was $63.0 million.All but two of our properties not otherwise subject to mortgage loans collateralize the borrowing base of our Credit Facility and have mortgages recorded for that purpose. If the financial results of the borrowing base properties deteriorate, or if their values decline, the maximum availability under the Credit Facility may decline and we may be required to make mandatory repayments of principal outstanding to avoid a default under the Credit Facility, absent an amendment or waiver. Dispositions of borrowing base properties will have a similar effect.If we are unable to borrow under our Credit Facility due to a decrease in the available capacity or for any other reason, we may be prevented from acquiring additional properties, funding our working capital needs or our dividends to our stockholders, and other sources of debt or equity capital may not be available to us, or may be available only on unattractive terms. A decrease in the available capacity under our Credit Facility could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.20Table of ContentsIncreases in interest rates could increase the amount of our debt payments and adversely affect our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders.We have incurred substantial indebtedness, of which $710.0 million outstanding as of December 31, 2015, among other things, bears interest at variable interest rates. We have not entered into any swaps, and have purchased LIBOR caps on only $305.0 million of this variable rate indebtedness, to minimize the impact of increases in interest rates on this variable rate indebtedness. Accordingly, increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs, which could reduce our cash flows and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. In addition, if we need to repay existing debt during periods of rising interest rates, we could be required to liquidate one or more of our investments in properties at times that may not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments.U.S. Federal Income Tax RisksOur failure to remain qualified as a REIT would subject us to U.S. federal income tax and potentially state and local tax, and would adversely affect our operations.We have elected to be taxed as a REIT commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2010 and intend to operate in a manner that would allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT. However, we may terminate our REIT qualification, if our board of directors determines that not qualifying as a REIT is in our best interests, or inadvertently. Our qualification as a REIT depends upon our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex and interpretation of the U.S. federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT is limited. Furthermore, any opinion of our counsel, including tax counsel, as to our eligibility to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service ( the "IRS") and is not a guarantee that we will qualify, or continue to qualify, as a REIT. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in operating so we can qualify or remain qualified as a REIT. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends on our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT income or quarterly asset requirements also depends on our ability to successfully manage the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. Accordingly, if certain of our operations were to be recharacterized by the IRS, such recharacterization would jeopardize our ability to satisfy all requirements for qualification as a REIT. Furthermore, future legislative, judicial or administrative changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws could be applied retroactively, which could result in our disqualification as a REIT.If we fail to continue to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates. In addition, we would generally be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year of losing our REIT qualification. Losing our REIT qualification would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability. In addition, dividends to stockholders would no longer qualify for the dividends paid deduction, and we would no longer be required to pay dividends. If this occurs, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax.Even if we qualify as a REIT, in certain circumstances, we may incur tax liabilities that would reduce our cash available for other purposes.Even if we qualify and maintain our status as a REIT, we may be subject to U.S. federal, state and local income taxes. For example, net income from the sale of properties that are "dealer" properties sold by a REIT (a "prohibited transaction" under the Code) will be subject to a 100% tax. We may not distribute sufficient dividends to avoid excise taxes applicable to REITs. We also may decide to retain net capital gain we earn from the sale or other disposition of our property and pay U.S. federal income tax directly on such income. In that event, our stockholders would be treated as if they earned that income and paid the tax on it directly. However, stockholders that are tax-exempt, such as charities or qualified pension plans, would have no benefit from their deemed payment of such tax liability unless they file U.S. federal income tax returns and thereon seek a refund of such tax. We also will be subject to corporate tax on any undistributed REIT taxable income. We also may be subject to state and local taxes on our income or property, including franchise, payroll and transfer taxes, either directly or at the level of our OP or at the level of the other companies through which we indirectly own our assets, such as our TRSs, which are subject to full U.S. federal, state, local and foreign corporate-level income taxes. Any taxes we pay directly or indirectly will reduce our cash available for other purposes.21Table of ContentsTo qualify as a REIT we must meet annual distribution requirements, which may force us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities or borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions. This could delay or hinder our ability to meet our investment objectives.In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute annually to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (which does not equal net income, as calculated in accordance with GAAP), determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. We will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our undistributed REIT taxable income and net capital gain and to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on any amount by which dividends we pay with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of (a) 85% of our ordinary income, (b) 95% of our capital gain net income and (c) 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. These requirements could cause us to distribute amounts that otherwise would be spent on investments in real estate assets and it is possible that we might be required to borrow funds, possibly at unfavorable rates, or sell assets to fund these distributions. It is possible that we might not always be able to pay distributions sufficient to meet the annual distribution requirements and to avoid U.S. federal income and excise taxes on our earnings while we qualify as a REIT.Certain of our business activities are potentially subject to the prohibited transaction tax.For so long as we qualify as a REIT, our ability to dispose of property during the first few years following acquisition may be restricted to a substantial extent as a result of our REIT qualification. Under applicable provisions of the Code regarding prohibited transactions by REITs, while we qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on any gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of any property (other than foreclosure property) that we own, directly or indirectly through any subsidiary entity, including our OP, but generally excluding TRSs, that is deemed to be inventory or property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business. Whether property is inventory or otherwise held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business depends on the particular facts and circumstances surrounding each property. We intend to avoid the 100% prohibited transaction tax by (a) conducting activities that may otherwise be considered prohibited transactions through a TRS (but such TRS would incur corporate rate income taxes with respect to any income or gain recognized by it), (b) conducting our operations in such a manner so that no sale or other disposition of an asset we own, directly or indirectly through any subsidiary, will be treated as a prohibited transaction, or (c) structuring certain dispositions of our properties to comply with the requirements of the prohibited transaction safe harbor available under the Code for properties that, among other requirements, have been held for at least two years. Despite our present intention, no assurance can be given that any particular property we own, directly or through any subsidiary entity, including our OP, but generally excluding TRSs will not be treated as inventory or property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business.Our TRSs are subject to corporate-level taxes and our dealings with our TRSs may be subject to 100% excise tax.A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 25% (20% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017) of the gross value of a REIT's assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs.A TRS may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT, including gross income from operations pursuant to management contracts. We will lease any "qualified lodging facilities" we own to one or more TRSs which in turn contract with independent third-party hotel management companies to operate such "qualified lodging facilities" on behalf of such TRSs. We may use our TRSs generally for other activities as well, such as to hold properties for sale in the ordinary course of a trade or business or to hold assets or conduct activities that we cannot conduct directly as a REIT. A TRS will be subject to applicable U.S. federal, state, local and foreign income tax on its taxable income. In addition, the rules, which are applicable to us as a REIT, also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm's-length basis.If our leases to our TRSs are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT.To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy two gross income tests, under which specified percentages of our gross income must be derived from certain sources, such as "rents from real property." In order for rent to qualify as "rents from real property" for purposes of the REIT gross income tests, the leases must be respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes and not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. If our leases are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT.22Table of ContentsIf our OP failed to qualify as a partnership or is not otherwise disregarded for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would cease to qualify as a REIT.We intend to maintain the status of our OP as a partnership or a disregarded entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, if the IRS were to successfully challenge the status of our OP as a partnership or disregarded entity for such purposes, it would be taxable as a corporation. In such event, this would reduce the amount of distributions that our OP could make to us. This also would result in our failing to qualify as a REIT, and becoming subject to a corporate level tax on our income. This substantially would reduce our cash available to pay dividends and the yield on an investment in our common stock. In addition, if any of the partnerships or limited liability companies through which our OP owns its properties, in whole or in part, loses its characterization as a partnership and is otherwise not disregarded for U.S. federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to taxation as a corporation, thereby reducing distributions to the OP. Such a recharacterization of an underlying property owner could also threaten our ability to maintain our REIT qualification.We may choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case the stockholder may be required to pay U.S. federal income taxes in excess of the cash dividends received by them.In connection with our qualification as a REIT, we are required to distribute annually to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (which does not equal net income, as calculated in accordance with GAAP), determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. In order to satisfy this requirement, we may pay dividends that are payable in cash and/or shares of our common stock (which could account for up to 80% of the aggregate amount of such dividends) at the election of each stockholder. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of such dividends as ordinary dividend income to the extent of our current or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, U.S. stockholders may be required to pay U.S. federal income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash portion of the dividend received. Accordingly, U.S. stockholders receiving a dividend of our shares may be required to sell shares received in such dividend or may be required to sell other stock or assets owned by them, at a time that may be disadvantageous, in order to satisfy any tax imposed on such dividend. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock that it receives as part of the dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to certain non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividend, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock, by withholding or disposing of part of the shares included in such dividend and using the proceeds of such disposition to satisfy the withholding tax imposed.Various tax aspects of such a taxable cash/stock dividend are uncertain and have not yet been addressed by the IRS. No assurance can be given that the IRS will not impose requirements in the future with respect to taxable cash/stock dividends, including on a retroactive basis, or assert that the requirements for such taxable cash/stock dividends have not been met.The taxation of amounts paid to our stockholders may be taxable as ordinary income, which may reduce the anticipated return from an investment in our common stock.Amounts that we pay to our stockholders generally referred to herein as "dividends" will generally be taxable as ordinary income if paid out of current and accumulated earnings and profits (and not designated as capital gain dividends or qualified dividend income). However, a portion of amounts paid to our stockholders may (1) be designated by us as capital gain dividends generally taxable as long-term capital gain to the extent that they are attributable to net capital gain recognized by us, (2) be designated by us as qualified dividend income generally to the extent they are attributable to dividends we receive from our TRSs, or (3) constitute a return of capital generally to the extent that the payment exceeds our accumulated earnings and profits as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A return of capital is not taxable, but has the effect of reducing the basis of a stockholder's investment in our common stock.Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends.Currently, the maximum tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income payable to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for this reduced rate. Although this does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our common stock. Tax rates could be changed in future legislation.23Table of ContentsComplying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge our liabilities effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities.The REIT provisions of the Code may limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. Any income from a hedging transaction we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes, price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets or in certain cases to hedge previously acquired hedges entered into to manage risks associated with property that has been disposed of or liabilities that have been extinguished, if properly identified under applicable Treasury Regulations, does not constitute "gross income" for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions will likely be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our TRSs would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in a TRS generally will not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward against future taxable income of such TRS.Complying with REIT requirements may force us to forego and/or liquidate otherwise attractive investment opportunities.To qualify as a REIT, we must ensure that we meet the REIT gross income tests annually and that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets, including certain mortgage loans and certain kinds of mortgage-related securities. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets can consist of the securities of any one issuer (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) and no more than 25% (20% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017) of the value of our total assets can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate assets from our portfolio or not make otherwise attractive investments in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders.The ability of our board of directors to revoke our REIT qualification without stockholder approval may subject us to U.S. federal income tax and reduce dividends to our stockholders.Our charter provides that our board of directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. While we have elected to be taxed as a REIT, we may terminate our REIT election if we determine that qualifying as a REIT is no longer in our best interests. If we cease to be a REIT, we would become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income and would no longer be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our stockholders.We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could increase our tax liability, reduce our operating flexibility and reduce the market price of our common stock.In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made in the provisions of U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to investments similar to an investment in shares of our common stock. Additional changes to the tax laws are likely to continue to occur, and there can be no assurance that any such changes will not adversely affect the taxation of a stockholder. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in our shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our assets. Stockholders are urged to consult with their tax advisor with respect to the impact of recent legislation on their investment in our shares and the status of legislative, regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in our shares.Although REITs generally receive better tax treatment than entities taxed as regular corporations, it is possible that future legislation would result in a REIT having fewer tax advantages, and it could become more advantageous for a company that invests in real estate to elect to be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a corporation. As a result, our charter provides our board of directors with the power, under certain circumstances, to revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election and cause us to be taxed as a regular corporation, without the vote of our stockholders. Our board of directors has fiduciary duties to us and our stockholders and could only cause such changes in our tax treatment if it determines in good faith that such changes are in the best interest of our stockholders.24Table of ContentsThe share ownership restrictions of the Code for REITs and the 9.8% share ownership limit in our charter may inhibit market activity in our shares of stock and restrict our business combination opportunities.In order to qualify as a REIT, five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Code, may not own, actually or constructively, more than 50% in value of our issued and outstanding shares of stock at any time during the last half of each taxable year, other than the first year for which a REIT election is made. Attribution rules in the Code determine if any individual or entity actually or constructively owns our shares of stock under this requirement. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our shares of stock during at least 335 days of a taxable year for each taxable year, other than the first year for which a REIT election is made. To help ensure that we meet these tests, among other purposes, our charter restricts the acquisition and ownership of our shares of stock.Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT while we so qualify. Unless exempted by our board of directors, for so long as we qualify as a REIT, our charter prohibits, among other limitations on ownership and transfer of shares of our stock, any person from beneficially or constructively owning (applying certain attribution rules under the Code) more than 9.8% in value of the aggregate of our outstanding shares of stock and more than 9.8% (in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of any class or series of our shares of stock. Our board of directors may not grant an exemption from these restrictions to any proposed transferee whose ownership in excess of the 9.8% ownership limit would result in the termination of our qualification as a REIT. These restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply, however, if our board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT or that compliance with the restrictions is no longer required in order for us to continue to qualify as a REIT.These ownership limits could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of the stockholders.Recharacterization of sale-leaseback transactions may cause us to lose our REIT status.If we enter into sale-leaseback transactions, we will use commercially reasonable efforts to structure any such sale- leaseback transaction such that the lease will be characterized as a "true lease" for tax purposes, thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The IRS may, however, challenge the characterization. In the event that any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and recharacterized as a financing transaction or loan for U.S. federal income tax purposes, deductions for depreciation and cost recovery relating to the property would be disallowed. If a sale-leaseback transaction were so recharacterized, we might fail to satisfy the REIT qualification "asset tests" or "income tests" and, consequently, lose our REIT status effective with the year of recharacterization. Alternatively, the amount of our REIT taxable income could be recalculated which might also cause us to fail to meet the distribution requirement for a taxable year.Non-U.S. stockholders will be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax and may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on dividends received from us and upon the disposition of our shares.Subject to certain exceptions, amounts paid by us to our stockholders will be treated as dividends of ordinary income to the extent of our current or accumulated earnings and profits. These dividends ordinarily will be subject to U.S. withholding tax at a 30% rate, or such lower rate as may be specified by an applicable income tax treaty, unless the dividends are treated as "effectively connected" with the conduct by the non-U.S. stockholder of a U.S. trade or business. Pursuant to the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980 ("FIRPTA") capital gain dividends attributable to sales or exchanges of "U.S. real property interests" ("USRPIs") generally will be taxed to a non-U.S. stockholder (other than a qualified pension plan, entities wholly owned by a qualified pension plan and certain foreign publicly traded entities) as if such gain were effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business. However, a capital gain dividend will not be treated as effectively connected income if (a) the dividend is received with respect to a class of stock that is regularly traded on an established securities market located in the United States and (b) the non-U.S. stockholder does not own more than 10% of the class of our stock at any time during the one- year period ending on the date the dividend is received.Gain recognized by a non-U.S. stockholder upon the sale or exchange of our common stock generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxation unless such stock constitutes a USRPI under FIRPTA. Our common stock will not constitute a USRPI so long as we are a "domestically-controlled qualified investment entity". A domestically-controlled qualified investment entity includes a REIT if at all times during a specified testing period, less than 50% in value of such REIT's stock is held directly or indirectly by non-U.S. stockholders. We believe, but cannot assure you, that we will be a domestically- controlled qualified investment entity.Even if we do not qualify as a domestically-controlled qualified investment entity at the time a non-U.S. stockholder sells or exchanges our common stock, gain arising from such a sale or exchange would not be subject to U.S. taxation under FIRPTA as a sale of a USRPI if (a) our common stock is "regularly traded," as defined by applicable Treasury regulations, on an established securities market, and (b) such non-U.S. stockholder owned, actually and constructively, 10% or less of our common stock at any time during the five-year period ending on the date of the sale.25Table of ContentsPotential characterization of dividends or gain on sale may be treated as unrelated business taxable income to tax- exempt investors.If (a) we are a "pension-held REIT," (b) a tax-exempt stockholder has incurred (or is deemed to have incurred) debt to purchase or hold our common stock, or (c) a holder of common stock is a certain type of tax-exempt stockholder, dividends on, and gains recognized on the sale of, common stock by such tax-exempt stockholder may be subject to U.S. federal income tax as unrelated business taxable income under the Code.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.Not applicable.26Table of Contents