ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Distribution Structure Our failure to continue to attract new recruits, retain sales representatives or maintain the licensing of our sales representatives would materially adversely affect our business. New sales representatives provide us with access to new referrals, enable us to increase sales, expand our client base and provide the next generation of successful sales representatives. As is typical with insurance and distribution businesses, we experience a high rate of turnover among our part-time sales representatives, which requires us to attract, retain and motivate a large number of sales representatives. Recruiting is performed by our current sales representatives, and the effectiveness of our recruiting is generally dependent upon our reputation as a provider of a rewarding and potentially lucrative income opportunity, as well as the general competitive and economic environment. The motivation of recruits to complete their training and licensing requirements and to commit to selling our products is largely dependent upon the effectiveness of our compensation and promotional programs and the competitiveness of such programs compared with other companies, including other part-time business opportunities. If our new business opportunities and products do not generate sufficient interest to attract new recruits, motivate them to become licensed sales representatives and incentivize them to sell our products and recruit other new sales representatives, our business would be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, if we or any other direct sales businesses with a similar distribution structure engage in practices resulting in increased negative public attention for our business, the resulting reputational challenges could adversely affect our ability to attract new recruits. Direct sales companies such as ours can be the subject of negative commentary on website postings and other non-traditional 36 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements media. This negative commentary can spread inaccurate or incomplete information about the direct sales industry in general or our company in particular, which can make our recruiting more difficult. Certain of our key RVPs have large sales organizations that include thousands of downline sales representatives. These key RVPs are responsible for attracting, motivating, supporting and assisting the sales representatives in their sales organizations. The loss of one or more key RVPs, together with a substantial number of their sales representatives, for any reason, including movement to a competitor, or any other event that causes the departure of a large number of sales representatives, could materially adversely affect our financial results and could impair our ability to attract new sales representatives. There are a number of laws and regulations that could apply to our distribution model, which subject us to the risk that we may have to modify our distribution structure. In the past, certain direct sales distribution models have been subject to challenge under various laws, including laws relating to business opportunities, franchising, pyramid schemes and unfair or deceptive trade practices. In general, state business opportunity and franchise laws in the United States prohibit sales of business opportunities or franchises unless the seller provides potential purchasers with a pre-sale disclosure document that has first been filed with a designated state agency and grants purchasers certain legal recourse against sellers of business opportunities and franchises. In Canada, the provinces of Alberta, Ontario, New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island have enacted legislation dealing with franchising, which typically requires mandatory disclosure to prospective franchisees. We have not been, and are not currently, subject to business opportunity laws because the amounts paid by our new representatives to us (i) are less than the minimum thresholds set by many state statutes and (ii) are not fees paid for the right to participate in a business, but rather are for bona fide expenses such as state-required insurance examinations and pre-licensing training. We have not been, and are not currently, subject to franchise laws for similar reasons. However, there is a risk that a governmental agency or court could disagree with our assessment or that these laws and regulations could change. In addition, the FTC is in the process of promulgating a revised Business Opportunity Rule. If enacted in the form of the current proposal as recommended by the FTC staff, we do not believe the revised rule would apply to our company. However, it could be broadened prior to enactment or interpreted after enactment in a manner inconsistent with our interpretation. Becoming subject to business opportunity or franchise laws or regulations could require us to provide certain disclosures and regulate the manner in which we recruit our sales representatives that may increase the expense of, or adversely impact our success in, recruiting new sales representatives and make it more difficult for us to successfully attract and recruit new sales representatives. There are various laws and regulations that prohibit fraudulent or deceptive schemes known as pyramid schemes. In general, a pyramid scheme is defined as an arrangement in which new participants are required to pay a fee to participate in the organization and then receive compensation primarily for recruiting other persons to participate, either directly or through sales of goods or services that are merely disguised payments for recruiting others. The application of these laws and regulations to a given set of business practices is inherently fact-based and, therefore, is subject to interpretation by applicable enforcement authorities. Our representatives are paid by commissions based on sales of our products and services to bona fide purchasers, and for this and other reasons we do not believe that we are subject to laws regulating pyramid schemes. Moreover, our representatives are not required to purchase any of the products marketed by us. However, even though we believe that our distribution practices are currently in compliance with, or 37 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements exempt from, these laws and regulations, there is a risk that a governmental agency or court could disagree with our assessment or that these laws and regulations could change, which may require us to cease our operations in certain jurisdictions or result in other costs or fines. There are also federal, state and provincial laws of general application, such as the FTC Act, and state or provincial unfair and deceptive trade practices laws that could potentially be invoked to challenge aspects of our recruiting of sales representatives and compensation practices. In particular, our recruiting efforts include promotional materials for recruits that describe the potential opportunity available to them if they join our sales force. These materials, as well as our other recruiting efforts and those of our sales representatives, are subject to scrutiny by the FTC and state and provincial enforcement authorities with respect to misleading statements, including misleading earnings claims made to convince potential new recruits to join our sales force. If claims made by us or by our sales representatives are deemed to be misleading, it could result in violations of the FTC Act or comparable state and provincial statutes prohibiting unfair or deceptive trade practices or result in reputational harm. Being subject to, or out of compliance with, the aforementioned laws and regulations could require us to change our distribution structure, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There may be adverse tax and employment law consequences if the independent contractor status of our sales representatives is successfully challenged. Our sales representatives are independent contractors who operate their own businesses. In the past, we have been successful in defending our company in various contexts before courts and administrative agencies against claims that our sales representatives should be treated like employees. Although we believe that we have properly classified our representatives as independent contractors, there is nevertheless a risk that the IRS or another authority will take a different view. Furthermore, the tests governing the determination of whether an individual is considered to be an independent contractor or an employee are typically fact sensitive and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Laws and regulations that govern the status and misclassification of independent sales representatives are subject to change or interpretation by various authorities. In September 2010, legislation was introduced in Congress known as the Fair Playing Field Act of 2010, which, if enacted, would require the Department of the Treasury to prospectively eliminate Section 530 of the Revenue Act of 1978 (“Section 530”). Section 530 currently prevents the IRS from reclassifying independent contractors as employees if the company has consistently treated the workers as independent contractors and has a reasonable basis (such as an IRS ruling or judicial precedent) for its independent contractor classification. The proposed legislation would also require businesses that use independent contractors on a regular and ongoing basis to provide workers with a written notice informing them of their federal tax obligations, of the employment laws that do not apply to them, and of their right to seek a determination of their employment status from the IRS. The White House budget proposal includes provisions similar to those in the Fair Playing Field Act and allocates $25 million to the Department of Labor (“DOL”) for additional enforcement relating to the misclassification of workers as independent contractors. Neither the White House Budget proposal nor the proposed Fair Playing Field Act expressly changes the standard for distinguishing between employees and independent contractors. If a federal, state or provincial authority or court enacts legislation or adopts regulations that change the manner in which employees and independent contractors are classified or makes any adverse determination with respect to some or all of our independent contractors, we could incur significant costs in complying 38 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements with such laws and regulations, including, in respect of tax withholding, social security payments and recordkeeping, or we may be required to modify our business model, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there is the risk that we may be subject to significant monetary liabilities arising from fines or judgments as a result of any such actual or alleged non-compliance with federal, state, or provincial tax or employment laws or with respect to any applicable employee benefit plan. Our or our sales representatives’ violation of or non-compliance with laws and regulations and the related claims and proceedings could expose us to material liabilities. Extensive federal, state, provincial and local laws regulate our products and our relationships with our clients, imposing certain requirements that our sales representatives must follow. The laws and regulations applicable to our business include those promulgated by FINRA, the SEC, the MSRB, the FTC and state insurance, lending and securities regulatory agencies in the United States. In Canada, the following Canadian regulatory authorities have responsibility for us: OSFI, FINTRAC, FCAC, MFDA, and provincial and territorial insurance regulators and provincial and territorial securities regulators. At any given time, we may have pending state, federal or provincial examinations or inquiries of our investment and savings products, insurance or loan businesses. In addition to imposing requirements that representatives must follow in their dealings with clients, these laws and rules generally require us to maintain a system of supervision to attempt to ensure that our sales representatives comply with these requirements. We have developed policies and procedures to comply with these laws. However, despite these compliance and supervisory efforts, the breadth of our operations and the broad regulatory requirements could result in oversight failures and instances of non-compliance or misconduct on the part of our sales representatives. From time to time, we are subject to private litigation as a result of alleged misconduct by our sales representatives. Examples include claims that a sales representative’s failure to disclose underwriting-related information regarding the insured on an insurance application resulted in the denial of a life insurance policy claim, and with respect to investment and savings products sales, errors or omissions that a representative made in connection with an account. Non-compliance or misconduct by our sales representatives could result in adverse findings in either examinations or litigation and could subject us to sanctions, significant monetary liabilities, restrictions on or the loss of the operation of our business, claims against us or reputational harm, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure to protect the confidentiality of client information could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Pursuant to federal laws, various federal regulatory and law enforcement agencies have established rules protecting the privacy and security of personal information. In addition, most states and some provinces have enacted laws, which vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, to safeguard the privacy and security of personal information. Many of our sales representatives and employees have access to and routinely process personal information of clients through a variety of media, including the Internet and software applications. We rely on various internal processes and controls to protect the confidentiality of client information that is accessible to, or in the possession of, our company, our employees and our sales representatives. We have a significant number of sales representatives and employees, and it is possible that a sales representative or employee could, intentionally or unintentionally, disclose or misappropriate confidential client information. If we fail to maintain adequate internal controls, including 39 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements any failure to implement newly required additional controls, or if our sales representatives or employees fail to comply with our policies and procedures, misappropriation or intentional or unintentional inappropriate disclosure or misuse of client information could occur. Such internal control inadequacies or non-compliance could materially damage our reputation or lead to civil or criminal penalties, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Insurance Business and Reinsurance We may face significant losses if our actual experience differs from our expectations regarding mortality or persistency. We set prices for life insurance policies based upon expected claim payment patterns derived from assumptions we make about the mortality rates, or likelihood of death, of our policyholders in any given year. The long-term profitability of these products depends upon how our actual mortality rates compare to our pricing assumptions. For example, if mortality rates are higher than those assumed in our pricing assumptions, we could be required to make more death benefit payments under our life insurance policies or to make such payments sooner than we had projected, which may decrease the profitability of our term life insurance products and result in an increase in the cost of our subsequent reinsurance transactions. The prices and expected future profitability of our life insurance products are also based, in part, upon assumptions related to persistency, which is the probability that a policy will remain in force from one period to the next. Actual persistency that is lower than our persistency assumptions could have an adverse effect on profitability, especially in the early years of a policy, primarily because we would be required to accelerate the amortization of expenses we deferred in connection with the acquisition of the policy. Actual persistency that is higher than our persistency assumptions could have an adverse effect on profitability in the later years of a block of policies because the anticipated claims experience is higher in these later years. If actual persistency is significantly different from that assumed in our pricing assumptions, our reserves for future policy benefits may prove to be inadequate. We are precluded from adjusting premiums on our in-force business during the initial term of the policies, and our ability to adjust premiums on in-force business after the initial policy term is limited by our insurance policy forms to the maximum premium rates in the policy. Our assumptions and estimates regarding persistency and mortality require us to make numerous judgments and, therefore, are inherently uncertain. We cannot determine with precision the actual persistency or ultimate amounts that we will pay for actual claim payments on a block of policies, the timing of those payments, or whether the assets supporting these contingent future payment obligations will increase to the levels we estimate before payment of claims. If we conclude that our reserves, together with future premiums, are insufficient to cover actual or expected claims payments and the scheduled amortization of our DAC assets, we would be required to first accelerate our amortization of the DAC assets and then increase our reserves and incur income statement charges for the period in which we make the determination, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The occurrence of a catastrophic event could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic events, which could cause a large number of premature deaths of our insureds. Catastrophic events include wars and other military actions, terrorist attacks, natural or man-made disasters and pandemics or other widespread health crises. Catastrophic events are not contemplated in our actuarial mortality models. A catastrophic event could also cause significant volatility in global financial markets 40 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements and disrupt the economy. Although we have ceded a significant majority of our mortality risk to reinsurers since the mid-1990s, a catastrophic event could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Claims resulting from a catastrophic event could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any quarter or year and could also materially harm the financial condition of our reinsurers, which would increase the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. Our ability to write new business could also be adversely affected. In addition, most of the jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business require life insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which raise funds to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed issuers. It is possible that a catastrophic event could require extraordinary assessments on our insurance companies, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance business is highly regulated, and statutory and regulatory changes may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Life insurance statutes and regulations are generally designed to protect the interests of the public and policyholders. Those interests may conflict with your interests as a stockholder. Currently, in the United States, the power to regulate insurance resides almost exclusively with the states. Much of this state regulation follows model statutes or regulations developed or amended by the NAIC, which is composed of the insurance commissioners of each U.S. jurisdiction. The NAIC re-examines and amends existing model laws and regulations (including holding company regulations) in addition to determining whether new ones are needed. The laws of the various U.S. jurisdictions grant insurance departments broad powers to regulate almost all aspects of our insurance business. The U.S. Congress continues to examine the current condition of U.S. state-based insurance regulation to determine whether to impose federal regulation and to allow optional federal insurance company incorporation. The Dodd-Frank Act created an Office of Federal Insurance Reform that will, among other things, study methods to modernize and improve insurance regulation, including uniformity and the feasibility of federal regulation. We cannot predict with certainty whether, or in what form, reforms will be enacted and, if so, whether the enacted reforms will materially affect our business. Changes in federal statutes, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the McCarran-Ferguson Act, financial services regulation and federal taxation, in addition to changes to state statutes and regulations, may be more restrictive than current requirements or may result in higher costs, and could materially adversely affect the insurance industry and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Provincial and federal insurance laws regulate many aspects of our Canadian insurance business. Changes to provincial or federal statutes and regulations may be more restrictive than current requirements or may result in higher costs, which could materially adversely affect the insurance industry and our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have also entered into an undertaking agreement with OSFI in connection with our initial public offering and the Transactions pursuant to which we have agreed to provide OSFI certain information, including advance notice, where practicable, of certain corporate actions. If we fail to comply with our undertaking to OSFI or if OSFI determines that our corporate actions do not comply with applicable Canadian law, Primerica Life Canada could face sanctions or fines, and Primerica Life Canada could be subject to increased capital requirements or other requirements deemed appropriate by OSFI. We received approval from the Minister of Finance (Canada) under the Insurance Companies Act (Canada) in connection with our indirect acquisition of Primerica Life Canada. The Minister expects that a person controlling a 41 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements federal insurance company will provide ongoing financial, managerial or operational support to its subsidiary should such support prove necessary, and has required us to sign a support principle letter to that effect. This ongoing support may take the form of additional capital, the provision of managerial expertise or the provision of support in such areas as risk management, internal control systems and training. However, the letter does not create a legal obligation on the part of the person to provide the support. In the event that OSFI determines Primerica Life Canada is not receiving adequate support from us under applicable Canadian law, Primerica Life Canada may be subject to increased capital requirements or other requirements deemed appropriate by OSFI. If there were to be extraordinary changes to statutory or regulatory requirements, we may be unable to fully comply with or maintain all required insurance licenses and approvals. Regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals. If we do not have all requisite licenses and approvals, or do not comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements, the regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our insurance activities or monetarily penalize us, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict with certainty the effect any proposed or future legislation or regulatory initiatives may have on the conduct of our business. See “Business — Regulation — Regulation of Insurance Products.” A decline in RBC of our insurance subsidiaries could result in increased scrutiny by insurance regulators and ratings agencies and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Each of our insurance subsidiaries is subject to RBC standards and other minimum statutory capital and surplus requirements (in Canada, minimum continuing capital and surplus requirements (“MCCSR”), and Tier 1 capital ratio requirements) imposed under the laws of its respective jurisdiction of domicile. The RBC formula for U.S. life insurance companies generally establishes capital requirements relating to insurance, business, asset and interest rate risks. Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are required to report their results of RBC calculations annually to the applicable state department of insurance and the NAIC. Our Canadian insurance subsidiary is required to provide its MCCSR and Tier 1 capital ratio calculations to the Canadian regulators. The capitalization of our life insurance subsidiaries is maintained at levels in excess of the effective minimum requirements of the NAIC in the United States and OSFI in Canada. These minimum standards are 100% of the Company Action Level of RBC for our U.S. insurance subsidiaries and, for our Canadian insurance subsidiary, MCCSR of 150% and a Tier 1 capital ratio of 105%. The capital required is the same for both the MCCSR and Tier 1 ratios, however the capital available for the Tier 1 ratio excludes certain assets as prescribed by OSFI. To comply with RBC levels prescribed by the regulators of our insurance subsidiaries, our initial capitalization levels were based on our estimates and assumptions regarding our business. In any particular year, statutory capital and surplus amounts and RBC and MCCSR ratios may increase or decrease depending on a variety of factors, including the amount of statutory income or losses generated by our insurance subsidiaries (which is sensitive to equity and credit market conditions), the amount of additional capital our insurance subsidiaries must hold to support business growth, changes in their reserve requirements, the value of certain fixed-income and equity securities in their investment portfolios, the credit ratings of investments held in their portfolios, the value of certain derivative instruments, changes in interest rates, credit market volatility, changes in consumer behavior, as well as changes to the NAIC’s RBC formula or the MCCSR calculation of OSFI. Many of these factors are outside of our control. 42 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our financial strength and credit ratings are significantly influenced by the statutory surplus amounts and RBC and MCCSR ratios of our insurance company subsidiaries. Ratings agencies may change their internal models, effectively increasing or decreasing the amount of statutory capital we must hold to maintain our current ratings. In addition, ratings agencies may downgrade the invested assets held in our portfolio, which could result in a reduction of our capital and surplus by means of other-than-temporary impairments. Changes in statutory accounting principles could also adversely impact our ability to meet minimum RBC, MCCSR and statutory capital and surplus requirements. Furthermore, during the initial years of operation after the Citi reinsurance transactions, our statutory capital and surplus may prove to be insufficient and we may incur ongoing statutory losses as a result of the high amounts of upfront commissions that are paid to our sales force in connection with the issuance of term life insurance policies. The statutory capital and surplus strain associated with payment of these commissions will be of greater impact during the initial years of our operations as a public company, as the in-force book of business, net of the Citi reinsurance transactions, grows. There is no assurance that our insurance subsidiaries will not need additional capital or that we will be able to provide it to maintain the targeted RBC and MCCSR levels to support their business operations. The failure of any of our insurance subsidiaries to meet its applicable RBC and MCCSR requirements or minimum capital and surplus requirements could subject it to further examination or corrective action imposed by insurance regulators, including limitations on its ability to write additional business, supervision by regulators or seizure or liquidation. Any corrective action imposed could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A decline in RBC or MCCSR also limits our ability to take dividends or distributions out of the insurance subsidiary and could be a factor in causing ratings agencies to downgrade the financial strength ratings of all our insurance subsidiaries. Such downgrades would have an adverse effect on our ability to write new insurance business and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A ratings downgrade by a ratings organization could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have three insurance subsidiaries. Primerica Life, our Massachusetts domiciled life insurance company, NBLIC, our New York life insurance company, and Primerica Life Canada, our Canadian life insurance company, have each been assigned a financial strength rating of A+ (superior; second highest of 16 ratings) by A.M. Best with a negative outlook. Primerica Life currently also has an insurer financial strength rating of AA- (very strong; fourth highest of 22 ratings) from Standard & Poor’s with a stable outlook. NBLIC and Primerica Life Canada are not rated by Standard & Poor’s. Financial strength ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Such ratings are important to maintaining public confidence in us and our ability to market our insurance products. Ratings organizations review the financial performance and financial conditions of insurance companies, including our three insurance subsidiaries, and provide opinions regarding financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet obligations to policyholders. A downgrade in the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, or the announced potential for a downgrade, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including by: • reducing sales of insurance products; • adversely affecting our relationships with our sales representatives; • materially increasing the amount of policy cancellations by our policyholders; • requiring us to reduce prices to remain competitive; and • adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices or at all. 43 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries are subject to periodic review using, among other things, the ratings agencies’ proprietary capital adequacy models, and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time. Insurance financial strength ratings are directed toward the concerns of policyholders and are not intended for the protection of investors or as a recommendation to buy, hold or sell securities. Our financial strength ratings will affect our competitive position relative to other insurance companies. If the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries fall below certain levels, some of our policyholders may move their business to our competitors. In addition, the standards used by ratings agencies in determining financial strength are different from capital requirements set by insurance regulators. We may need to take actions in response to changing standards set by any of the ratings agencies, as well as statutory capital requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Credit deterioration in, and the effects of interest rate fluctuations on, our invested asset portfolio could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A large percentage of our invested asset portfolio is invested in fixed-income securities; as a result, credit deterioration and interest rate fluctuations could materially affect the value and earnings of our invested asset portfolio. Fixed-income securities decline in value if there is no active trading market for the securities or the market’s impression of, or the ratings agencies’ views on, the credit quality of an issuer worsens. During periods of declining market interest rates, any interest income we receive on variable interest rate investments would decrease. In addition, during such periods, we would be forced to reinvest the cash we receive as interest or return of principal on our investments in lower-yielding high-grade instruments or in lower-credit instruments to maintain comparable returns. Issuers of fixed-income securities could also decide to prepay their obligations to borrow at lower market rates, which would increase the percentage of our portfolio that we would have to reinvest in lower-yielding investments of comparable credit quality or in lower quality investments offering similar yields. If interest rates generally increase, the market value of our fixed rate income portfolio decreases. Additionally, if the market value of any security in our invested asset portfolio decreases, we may realize losses if we deem the value of the security to be other-than-temporarily-impaired. To the extent that any fluctuations in fair value are significant or we recognize impairments that are material, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Valuation of our investments and the determination of whether a decline in the fair value of our invested assets is other-than-temporary are based on methodologies and estimates that may prove to be incorrect. GAAP requires that when the fair value of any of our invested assets declines and such decline is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we recognize a loss in either accumulated other comprehensive income or on our statement of income based on certain criteria in the period that such determination is made. Determining the fair value of certain invested assets, particularly those that do not trade on a regular basis, requires an assessment of available data and the use of assumptions and estimates. Once it is determined that the fair value of an asset is below its carrying value, we must determine whether the decline in fair value is other-than-temporary, which is based on subjective factors and involves a variety of assumptions and estimates. For information on our valuation methodology, see Notes 1 and 4 to our consolidated and combined financial statements included elsewhere in this report and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies — Investments.” 44 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements There are certain risks and uncertainties associated with determining whether declines in market value are other-than-temporary. These include significant changes in general economic conditions and business markets, trends in certain industry segments, interest rate fluctuations, rating agency actions, changes in significant accounting estimates and assumptions and legislative actions. In the case of mortgage- and asset-backed securities, there is added uncertainty as to the performance of the underlying collateral assets. To the extent that we are incorrect in our determination of the fair value of our investment securities or our determination that a decline in their value is other-than-temporary, we may realize losses that never actually materialize or may fail to recognize losses within the appropriate reporting period. The failure by any of our reinsurers to perform its obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We extensively use reinsurance in the United States to diversify our risk and to manage our loss exposure to mortality risk. Reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. We, as the insurer, are required to pay the full amount of death benefits even in circumstances where we are entitled to receive payments from the reinsurer. Due to factors such as insolvency, adverse underwriting results or inadequate investment returns, our reinsurers may not be able to pay the reinsurance recoverables they owe to us on a timely basis or at all. Reinsurers might refuse or fail to pay losses that we cede to them or might delay payment. Since death benefit claims may be paid long after a policy is issued, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. The creditworthiness of our reinsurers may change before we can recover amounts to which we are entitled. No assurance is given that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us now or in the future or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. Any such failure to pay by our reinsurers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure by Citi to perform its obligations to us under our coinsurance agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Immediately prior to the Offering, we entered into four coinsurance agreements with three reinsurer affiliates of Citi pursuant to which we ceded between 80% and 90% of the risks and rewards of our term life insurance policies that were in force at year-end 2009. Under this arrangement, our current third-party reinsurance agreements remain in place. The largest of these transactions involved two coinsurance agreements between Primerica Life and Prime Re. Prime Re was formed solely for the purpose of entering into these reinsurance transactions, has no operating history and does not possess a financial strength rating from any rating agency. The other transactions were between (1) Primerica Life Canada and Financial Reassurance Company 2010 Ltd., a Bermuda reinsurer formed to operate solely for the purpose of reinsuring Citi-related risks and is a wholly owned subsidiary of Citi, and (2) NBLIC and American Health and Life Insurance Company (“AHL”), a wholly owned insurance subsidiary of Citi that has a financial strength rating of “A” by A.M. Best. Each of the three reinsurers entered into trust agreements with our respective insurance subsidiaries and a trustee pursuant to which the reinsurer placed assets (primarily treasury and fixed-income securities) in trust for such subsidiary’s benefit to secure the reinsurer’s obligations to such subsidiary. Each such coinsurance agreement requires each reinsurer to maintain assets in trust sufficient to give the subsidiary full credit for regulatory purposes for the insurance, which amount will not be less than the amount of the reserves for the reinsured liabilities. In addition, in the case of the reinsurance transactions between Prime Re and Primerica Life, Citi has 45 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements agreed in a capital maintenance agreement to maintain Prime Re’s RBC above a specified minimum level, subject to a maximum amount of $512 million being contributed by Citi. After the first five years of the capital maintenance agreement, the maximum amount payable will be an aggregate amount equal to the lesser of $512 million or 15% of statutory reserves. In the case of the reinsurance transaction between NBLIC and AHL, Citi has agreed to over-collateralize the assets in the trust for NBLIC by 15% for the life of the coinsurance agreement between NBLIC and AHL. Furthermore, our insurance subsidiaries have the right to recapture the business upon the occurrence of an event of default under their respective coinsurance agreement with the Citi affiliates subject to any applicable cure periods. An event of default includes (1) a reinsurer insolvency, (2) failure through the fault of the reinsurer to provide full statutory financial statement credit for the reinsurance ceded, (3) a material breach of any covenant, representation or warranty by the reinsurer, (4) failure by the reinsurer to fund the trust account required to be established under the coinsurance agreements in any material respects, or (5) in connection with the coinsurance agreements with Prime Re, failure by Citi to maintain sufficient capital in the reinsurer, pursuant to the capital maintenance agreement between Citi and the reinsurer within 45 calendar days of any demand for payment by or on behalf of Primerica Life, and any 45-day extension thereof as consented to by Primerica Life, which consent may not be unreasonably conditioned, delayed or withheld, for a total of not more than 90 days to obtain such consent; provided that Primerica Life is not required to consent to extend such period beyond an additional 45 days. While any such recapture would be at no cost to us, such recapture would result in a substantial increase in our insurance exposure and require us to be fully responsible for the management of the assets set aside to support statutory reserves. The type of assets we might obtain as a result of a recapture may not be as highly liquid as our current invested asset portfolio and could result in an unfavorable impact on our risk profile. We cannot provide assurance that the relevant Citi reinsurer will pay the reinsurance obligations owed to us now or in the future or that it will pay these obligations on a timely basis. Notwithstanding the capital maintenance agreement between Prime Re and Citi and the initial over-collateralization of assets in trust for the benefit of our insurance companies, if any of our reinsurers affiliated with Citi becomes insolvent, the amount in the trust account to support the obligations of such reinsurer is insufficient to pay such reinsurer’s obligations to us and we fail to enforce our right to recapture the business, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Yearly renewable term reinsurance may not be available or affordable in the future to limit our mortality risk exposure. As described above, we have historically used YRT reinsurance to manage our loss exposure to mortality risks. It is our current intention to continue our practice of purchasing mortality reinsurance in the future consistent with our past practice. While YRT reinsurance agreements generally bind the reinsurers for the life of the business reinsured at generally fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new business. We may not be able to maintain our current YRT reinsurance agreements in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. Any decrease in the amount of YRT reinsurance will increase our exposure to mortality risks. Changes in accounting for DAC of insurance entities will accelerate the recognition for certain acquisition costs not deemed to be directly related to the successful acquisition of new insurance contracts. In October 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued ASU 2010-26, Accounting for Costs Associated with Acquiring or Renewing Insurance Contracts (ASU 2010- 46 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 26). The update revises the definition of deferred policy acquisition costs to reflect incremental costs directly related to the successful acquisition of new and renewed insurance contracts. The update creates a more limited definition than the current guidance, which defines deferred policy acquisition costs as those that vary with, and primarily relate to, the acquisition of insurance contracts. The revised definition materially increases the portion of acquisition costs being expensed as incurred rather than deferred and amortized over the lives of the underlying policies. The update allows either prospective or retrospective adoption and is required to be adopted for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2012. While we are currently unable to quantify the impact of implementation, we expect this update to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, as we will be required to accelerate the recognition of certain expenses associated with acquiring life insurance business. Changes in accounting standards can be difficult to predict and could adversely impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. U.S. GAAP continues to evolve and as a result, may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to anticipate and implement and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. For example, the FASB’s current insurance contracts project could, among other things, significantly change the way we measure insurance liabilities on our balance sheet and the way we present earnings on our statement of income. This project, in addition to a related proposal to modify International Financial Reporting Standards on accounting for insurance contracts, could adversely impact both our financial condition and results of operations as reported on a U.S. GAAP basis as well as our statutory capital calculations. Risks Related to Our Investments and Savings Products Business Our investment and savings products segment is heavily dependent on mutual fund and annuity products offered by a relatively small number of companies and if these products fail to remain competitive with other investment options or we lose our relationship with one or more of these fund companies or with the source of our annuity products, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We earn a significant portion of our earnings through our relationships with a small group of mutual fund companies, including Legg Mason, Invesco and American Funds, and with MetLife, which provides our annuity products. A decision by one or more of these companies to alter or discontinue their current arrangements with us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if any of our investment and savings products fail to achieve satisfactory investment performance, our clients may seek higher yielding alternative investment products. If any of our investment and savings products fail to achieve satisfactory investment performance for an extended period of time, we may experience higher redemption rates. In such circumstances, we may also experience re-allocations of existing client assets and increased allocations of new assets to investment and savings products with higher investment returns, which ultimately results in changes in our mix of business. Since different investment and savings products have different revenue and expense characteristics, such changes may have significant negative consequences for us. In recent years there has been an increase in the popularity of alternative investments, which 47 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements we do not currently offer, principally index funds and exchange traded funds. These investment options typically have low fee structures and provide some of the attributes of mutual funds, such as risk diversification. If these products continue to gain traction among our client base as viable alternatives to mutual fund investments, our investment and savings products revenues may decline. In addition to sales commissions and asset-based compensation, a significant portion of our earnings from investment and savings products comes from recordkeeping services that we provide to Invesco, Legg Mason and Pioneer Investments and from fees earned for custodial services we provide to clients with retirement plan accounts in the funds of these mutual fund companies. We also receive revenue sharing payments from each of these mutual fund companies. A decision by one or more of these fund companies to alter or discontinue their current arrangements with us would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our or our securities-licensed sales representatives violations of, or non-compliance with, laws and regulations could expose us to material liabilities. Our subsidiary broker-dealer, PFS Investments, is subject to federal and state regulation of its securities business, including sales practices, trade suitability, supervision of registered representatives, recordkeeping, the conduct and qualification of officers and employees, the rules and regulations of the MSRB and state blue sky regulation. Our subsidiary, PSS, is a registered transfer agent engaged in the recordkeeping business and is subject to SEC regulation. Violations of laws or regulations applicable to the activities of PFS Investments or PSS or violations by a third party with which PFS Investments or PSS contracts which improperly performs its task could subject us to disciplinary actions and could result in the imposition of cease and desist orders, fines or censures, restitution to clients, disciplinary actions, including the potential suspension or revocation of its license by the SEC, or the suspension or expulsion from FINRA and reputational damage, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Canadian dealer subsidiary, PFSL Investments Canada Ltd. (“PFSL Investments Canada”) and its sales representatives are subject to the securities laws of the provinces and territories of Canada in which we sell our mutual fund products and those of third parties and to the rules of the MFDA, the self-regulatory organization governing mutual fund dealers. PFSL Investments Canada is subject to periodic review by both the MFDA and the provincial and territorial securities commissions to assess its compliance with, among other things, applicable capital requirements and sales practices and procedures. These regulators have broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of our business for failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations. Possible sanctions that may be imposed include the suspension of individual sales representatives, limitations on the activities in which the dealer may engage, suspension or revocation of the dealer registration, censure or fines, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If heightened standards of conduct or more stringent licensing requirements, such as those recently proposed by the SEC and the DOL, are imposed on us or our sales representatives or selling compensation is reduced as a result of new legislation or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our sales representatives are subject to federal and state regulation as well as state licensing requirements. PFS Investments, which is regulated as a broker-dealer, and our U.S. sales representatives are currently subject to general anti-fraud limitations under the Exchange Act and SEC rules and regulations, as well as other 48 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements conduct standards prescribed by FINRA. These standards generally require that broker-dealers and their sales representatives disclose conflicts of interest that might affect the advice or recommendations they provide and require them to make suitable investment recommendations to their customers. The Dodd-Frank Act, which gave the SEC the power to impose on broker-dealers a heightened standard of conduct that is currently applicable only to investment advisers, required the SEC to conduct a study to evaluate the effectiveness of the current legal standards of conduct for those that provide personalized investment advice regarding securities to retail customers. The SEC staff recently submitted a report to Congress in which it recommends that the SEC adopt a uniform fiduciary standard of conduct. Additionally, the DOL has published a proposed rule that would more broadly define the circumstances under which a person or entity may be considered a fiduciary for purposes of the prohibited transaction rules of Internal Revenue Code Section 4975 (“Section 4975”). The proposal amends a long-standing position that the DOL believes may inappropriately limit the types of investment advice relationships that give rise to the application of such prohibited transaction rules. The DOL held a public hearing on the proposal in early March 2011. If PFS Investments and its securities-licensed representatives are deemed to be fiduciaries for purposes of Section 4975, we could be limited in our ability to receive and retain certain types of compensation paid by third parties with respect to both new investments into and existing assets in qualified accounts. This could make it more difficult for us and our representatives to profitably serve the middle-income market. Moreover, if our representatives must be advisors with Series 65 licenses, this could force us to change our business model and could become a significant obstacle to serving our existing IRA accounts and receiving a sufficient revenue stream to remain in this line of business. Heightened standards of conduct as a result of either of the above proposals or another similar proposed rule or regulation could also increase the compliance and regulatory burdens on our representatives, lead to increased litigation and regulatory risks, changes to our business model, a decrease in the number of our securities-licensed representatives or a reduction in the products we offer to our clients which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our suitability policies and procedures could be deemed inadequate. We review account applications for our investment or savings product received by us for suitability. While we believe that our policies and procedures implemented to help our sales representatives assist clients in making appropriate and suitable investment choices are reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable securities laws and regulations, it is possible that FINRA and MFDA may not agree. In that event, we could be subject to regulatory actions or civil litigation, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our sales force support tools may fail to appropriately identify suitable investment products. Our support tools are designed to educate clients, help identify their financial needs, illustrate the potential benefits of our products and allow a sales representative to show them how the sales representative’s recommendations may help them. There is a risk that the assumptions and methods of analyses embedded in our support tools could be successfully challenged and subject us to regulatory actions or civil litigation, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Non-compliance with applicable regulations could lead to revocation of our subsidiary’s status as a non-bank custodian. PFS Investments is a non-bank custodian of retirement accounts, as permitted under 49 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Treasury Regulation 1.408-2. A non-bank custodian is an entity that is not a bank and that is permitted by the IRS to act as a custodian for retirement plan account assets of our clients. The IRS retains authority to revoke or suspend that status if it finds that PFS Investments is unwilling or unable to administer retirement accounts in a manner consistent with the requirements of the regulations. Revocation of PFS Investments’ non-bank custodian status would affect its ability to earn revenue for providing such services and, consequently, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Loan Business The current economic environment and stringent credit policies may continue to negatively affect our loan production. Beginning in 2008, in response to economic conditions and consistent with steps taken by other mortgage lenders generally, our mortgage lenders implemented more rigorous credit standards, including more restrictive loan-to-value limitations and more restrictive underwriting criteria, which adversely affected our loan business. We anticipate that these credit restrictions will be ongoing, and it is possible that further restrictive underwriting criteria may be imposed by our mortgage lenders in reaction to changes in the economic environment or by new legislative or regulatory requirements, including the Dodd-Frank Act, affecting mortgage lending generally. Heightened credit standards have materially reduced the volume of our loan sales. Beginning in March 2010, we modified the mortgage product to make it a conforming loan product that is saleable by CTB, the lender, to government-sponsored enterprises, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. This modification reduced the compensation that we and our sales force earn upon the origination of a mortgage loan in the United States. While mortgage origination historically has not accounted for a significant portion of our earnings, sourcing of mortgage loans historically has provided an opportunity for new sales representatives to receive commissions before they have completed the licensing process that is required to sell life insurance and certain other products. Additionally, some of our sales representatives use loan product sales efforts as a gateway to establish an ongoing relationship with clients. Consequently, the reduction in the scale of our loan product distribution business and the related commission compensation to our sales force may cause us to have fewer sales representatives and impede our overall growth. New licensing requirements will continue to significantly reduce the size of our loan sales force. The number of our sales representatives who are authorized to sell loan products in the United States has significantly decreased due to the implementation of individual licensing requirements mandated by the SAFE Act. The SAFE Act required all states to enact and implement laws that require our U.S. sales representatives to be individually licensed if they engage in offering mortgage loan products. Prior to the enactment of the SAFE Act, our sales representatives were not required to be individually licensed or registered to sell mortgage loan products in the majority of states. Due to the enactment and implementation by the states of the SAFE Act, to offer mortgage loan products, our sales representatives must be individually licensed as mortgage loan originators (and in some states as both mortgage brokers and mortgage loan originators) by the states in which they do business. These licensing requirements include enrollment in the Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System, application to state regulators for individual licenses, a minimum of 20 hours of pre-licensing education, an annual minimum of eight hours of continuing education and the successful completion of both national and state exams. Compliance with these licensing regimes (including background checks) have proven to be a barrier in terms of cost or time for a large number of our sales representatives. In addition, the exams have proven to be challenging for our sales representatives to pass. The SAFE Act 50 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements licensing requirements have caused, and are expected to continue to cause, a significant reduction in the scale of our loan product distribution business, which could materially adversely affect our loan product sales. The reduction of the number of sales representatives participating in the loan business has adversely impacted, and is expected to continue to adversely impact, Primerica Mortgages’ ability to maintain and obtain corporate Mortgage Broker (or equivalent) licenses in certain states where no sales representatives are individually licensed. If Primerica Mortgages does not obtain or maintain corporate Mortgage Broker licenses in the various states, then representatives who want to become individually licensed will be unable to do so due to the lack of a sponsoring licensed Mortgage Broker or may seek another sponsoring licensed Mortgage Broker. Unless both individual representatives and Primerica Mortgages are licensed, neither can offer mortgage loans in a state. In addition, our inability to source mortgage loans impacts the compensation paid to our sales representatives and our ability to assist our clients with their needs. Our loan business is subject to various federal laws, changes in which could affect the cost or our ability to distribute our products and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our U.S. loan business is subject to various federal laws, including the Truth In Lending Act and its implementing regulation, Regulation Z, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and its implementing regulation, Regulation B, the Fair Housing Act and the Home Ownership Equity Protection Act. We are also subject to RESPA and its implementing regulation, Regulation X, which requires timely disclosures related to the nature and costs of real estate settlement amounts and limits those costs and compensation to amounts reasonably related to the services performed. We are also subject to the Dodd-Frank Act and any regulations that will be issued under that Act. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new consumer protection agency, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, which will have the authority to examine, supervise and enforce federal consumer financial laws, including those impacting Primerica Mortgages’ business. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act imposed restrictions on the manner and amount of mortgage originator compensation and establishes a federal ability to repay standard for all mortgage loans. Other restrictions contained in the Dodd-Frank Act could have the effect of limiting the availability of certain loan products in the market and adversely impact the range of products offered and the volume of loan business. Additionally, we must comply with various state and local laws and policies concerning our lenders, the provision of consumer disclosures, net branching, predatory lending and high cost loans and recordkeeping. In the state of California, the law provides that since Primerica Mortgages is a licensed as California Finance Lender authorized to act as a mortgage broker, Primerica Mortgages is restricted to brokering loans only to another lender who is licensed as a California Finance Lender. Currently, our lender, Citicorp Trust Bank, fsb, is licensed as a California Finance Lender, but should CTB elect to transfer the lending business to either CitiMortgage, Inc. or Citibank N.A., neither of which are currently licensed as California Finance Lenders, Primerica Mortgages ability to source loans in California could be adversely impacted. Differing interpretations of, changes in, or violations of, any of these laws or regulations could subject us to damages, fines or sanctions and could affect the cost or our ability to distribute our products, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 51 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Other Risks Related to Our Business A further delay in the recovery of the United States’ and Canadian economies could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations have been materially adversely affected by the economic downturn in the United States and Canada and the slow recovery that has occurred since the last half of 2009. During this period, we have observed increased volatility in the availability and cost of credit, shrinking mortgage markets, fluctuating equity values and falling consumer confidence and general instability of financial and other institutions. This economic downturn, which has been characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower valuation of retirement savings accounts, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, has adversely affected the demand for the term life insurance, investment and other financial products that we sell. A continuation of these effects could severely affect new sales and cause clients to liquidate mutual funds and other investments sold by our sales representatives. This could cause a decrease in the asset value of client accounts, reduce our trailing commission revenues and result in other-than-temporary-impairments in our invested asset portfolio. In addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of lapses or surrenders of insurance policies, and some of our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. Continuing volatility in equity markets or downturns could discourage purchases of the investment products that we sell for third parties. Moreover, if the economic recovery in the United States and Canada is delayed further, it will likely have an adverse effect on our business, including our ability to recruit and retain sales representatives. If credit markets remain tight for a prolonged period, our liquidity will be more limited than it otherwise would have been, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We are subject to various federal laws and regulations in the United States and Canada, changes in which or violations of which may require us to alter our business practices and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the United States, we are subject to the Right to Financial Privacy Act and its implementing regulation, Regulation S-P, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the McCarran-Ferguson Act, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the FTC Act, the Unfair Trade Practices Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970 and anti-tying restrictions. We are also subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the Patriot Act, which requires us to develop and implement customer identification and risk-based anti-money laundering programs, report suspicious activity and maintain certain records. We are also required to follow certain economic and trade sanctions programs that are administered by the Office of Foreign Asset Control that prohibit or restrict transactions with suspected countries, their governments, and in certain circumstances, their nationals. In Canada, we are subject to provincial and territorial consumer protection legislation that pertains to unfair and misleading business practices, provincial and territorial credit reporting legislation that provides requirements in respect of obtaining credit bureau reports and providing notices of decline, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act, the Competition Act, the Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act, the Telecommunications Act and certain Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission Telecom Decisions in respect of unsolicited telecommunications. We are also subject to the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and 52 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Terrorist Financing Act and its accompanying regulations, which require us to develop and implement money laundering policies and procedures relating to customer indemnification, reporting and recordkeeping, develop and maintain ongoing training programs for employees, perform a risk assessment on our business and clients and institute and document a review of our anti-money laundering program at least once every two years. We are also required to follow certain economic and trade sanctions and legislation that prohibit us from, among other things, engaging in transactions with, and providing services to, persons on lists created under various federal statutes and regulations and blocked persons and foreign countries and territories subject to Canadian sanctions administered by Foreign Affairs and International Trade Canada and the Department of Public Safety Canada. Changes in, or violations of, any of these laws or regulations may require additional compliance procedures, or result in enforcement proceedings, sanctions or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation and regulatory investigations and actions may result in financial losses and harm our reputation. We face a risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses. From time to time, we are subject to private litigation and regulatory investigations as a result of sales representative misconduct. See “— Risks Related to Our Distribution Structure — Our or our sales representatives’ violation of or non-compliance with laws and regulations and the related claims and proceedings could expose us to material liabilities.” In addition, we may become subject to lawsuits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, payment of improper sales commissions, claims payments and payment procedures, product design, product disclosure, administration, additional premium charges for premiums paid on a periodic basis, denial or delay of benefits, recommending unsuitable sales of products to clients and our pricing structures. Life insurance companies have historically been subject to substantial litigation resulting from policy disputes and other matters. For example, they have faced extensive claims alleging improper life insurance sales practices. If we become subject to similar litigation, any judgment or settlement of such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are subject to litigation arising out of our general business activities. For example, we have a large sales force, and we could face claims by some of our sales representatives arising out of their relationship with us, including claims involving contract terminations, commission disputes, transfers of sales representatives from one sales organization to another, agreements among sales representatives or between us and a sales representative or any of our other dealings with, or policies regarding, sales representatives. We are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as information requests, subpoenas and books and record examinations, from state, provincial and federal regulators and other authorities. A substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in any such litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer significant reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings could result in new legal precedents and industry-wide regulations or practices that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 53 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The current legislative and regulatory climate with regard to financial services may adversely affect our operations. The volume of legislative and regulatory activity relating to financial services has increased substantially in recent years. The Dodd-Frank Act could cause sweeping changes in the consumer financial services industry, and impact us. As a result, these changes may include holding our sales representatives to a heightened fiduciary standard previously inapplicable to them and limiting or eliminating the use of mandatory pre-dispute arbitration. The SEC also introduced a proposal in July 2010 to restructure and limit the payment of 12b-1 (distribution) fees by mutual fund and variable annuity issuers to selling broker-dealers. The FTC and the federal banking regulatory agencies also have promulgated or proposed new regulations relating to financial services, and we expect more regulations to be proposed. We also anticipate that the level of enforcement actions and investigations by federal regulators will increase in the foreseeable future. The same factors that have contributed to legislative, regulatory and enforcement activity at the federal level are likely to contribute to heightened legislative, regulatory and enforcement activity relating to financial services at the state and provincial level as well. If we or our sales representatives become subject to new requirements or regulations, it could result in increased litigation, regulatory risks, changes to our business model, a decrease in the number of our securities licensed representatives or a reduction in the products we offer to our clients or the profits we earn, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions or other payments to us in sufficient amounts, including due to bankruptcy or insolvency, would impede our ability to meet our obligations. We are a holding company, and we have no significant operations. Our primary asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries and our primary liability is the Citi note. We rely primarily on dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet our operating costs and other corporate expenses, as well as to pay dividends to our stockholders. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us depends on their earnings, covenants contained in future financing or other agreements and on regulatory restrictions. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends will further depend on their statutory surplus. If the cash we receive from our subsidiaries pursuant to dividend payments and tax sharing arrangements is insufficient for us to fund our obligations, including the Citi note, or if a subsidiary is unable to pay dividends to us, we may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of equity or the sale of assets. However, given the recent volatility in the capital markets, there is no assurance that we would be able to raise cash by these means. The payment of dividends and other distributions to us by our insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. The jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled impose certain restrictions on their ability to pay dividends to us. In the United States, these restrictions are based, in part, on the prior year’s statutory income and surplus. In general, dividends up to specified levels are considered ordinary and may be paid without prior approval. For example, in Massachusetts the ordinary dividend capacity for Primerica Life is based on the greater of (1) 10% of the previous year-end statutory capital and surplus or (2) the previous year’s statutory net gain from operations. Dividends in larger amounts are subject to approval by the insurance commissioner of the state of domicile. In Canada, dividends can be paid, subject to the paying insurance company continuing to meet the regulatory requirements for capital adequacy and liquidity and upon 15 days’ minimum notice to OSFI. No assurance is given that more stringent restrictions will not be adopted from time to time by jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, and such restrictions could have the effect, under certain circumstances, of significantly 54 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements reducing dividends or other amounts payable to us by our subsidiaries without prior approval by regulatory authorities. In addition, in the future, we may become subject to debt instruments or other agreements that limit our ability to pay dividends. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us is also limited by our need to maintain the financial strength ratings assigned to us by the ratings agencies. If any of our subsidiaries were to become insolvent, liquidate or otherwise reorganize, we, as sole stockholder, will have no right to proceed against the assets of that subsidiary. Furthermore, with respect to our insurance subsidiaries, we, as sole stockholder, will have no right to cause the liquidation, bankruptcy or winding-up of the subsidiary under the applicable liquidation, bankruptcy or winding-up laws, although, in Canada, we could apply for permission to cause liquidation. The applicable insurance laws of the jurisdictions in which each of our insurance subsidiaries is domiciled would govern any proceedings relating to that subsidiary. The insurance authority of that jurisdiction would act as a liquidator or rehabilitator for the subsidiary. Both creditors of the subsidiary and policyholders (if an insurance subsidiary) would be entitled to payment in full from the subsidiary’s assets before we, as the sole stockholder, would be entitled to receive any distribution from the subsidiary, which could adversely affect our ability to pay our operating costs and other corporate expenses. If the ability of our insurance or non-insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions or payments to us is materially restricted by regulatory requirements, bankruptcy or insolvency, or our need to maintain our financial strength ratings, or is limited due to operating results or other factors, it could materially adversely affect our ability to pay our operating costs and other corporate expenses. We may incur debt or issue equity to meet our operating and regulatory capital requirements or for other purposes. Historically, we have funded our new business capital needs from cash flows provided by premiums paid on our in-force book of term life insurance policies. As a result of the Citi reinsurance transactions, the net cash flow we retain from our existing block of term life insurance policies was reduced proportionately to the size of our retained interest. As we grow our term life insurance business by issuing new policies, we will need to fund all of the upfront cash requirements of issuing new term life policies (such as commissions payable to the sales force and underwriting expenses), which costs generally exceed premiums collected in the first year after a policy is sold. In light of these anticipated net cash outflows, there will be significant demands on our liquidity in the near- to intermediate-term as we grow the size of our retained block of term life insurance policies. Therefore, to meet our operating and regulatory requirements, we may incur debt or issue equity to fund working capital and capital expenditures or to make acquisitions and other investments. If we raise funds through the issuance of debt securities or preferred equity securities, any such debt securities or preferred equity securities issued will have liquidation rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. If we raise funds through the issuance of equity securities, the issuance will dilute your ownership interest in us. There is no assurance that debt or equity financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are not able to obtain sufficient financing, we may be unable to maintain or grow our business. 55 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our inability to achieve an investment-grade rating from rating agencies could restrict our ability to refinance the Citi note with terms that are acceptable. Prior to the completion of our initial public offering, we issued to Citi the $300.0 million Citi note. This note matures on March 31, 2015, and we are obligated under the terms of the note to use commercially reasonable efforts to refinance the note at certain mutually agreeable dates, based on certain conditions. If we are unable to achieve an investment-grade rating, or are otherwise unable to refinance the note on reasonable economic terms, we may incur significantly higher interest expense or be unable to repay the Citi note in full upon maturity. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources —Citi Note” for a description of the terms of the Citi note. A significant change in the competitive environment in which we operate could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share and profitability. We face competition in all of our business lines. Our competitors include financial services companies, mutual fund companies, banks, investment management firms, broker-dealers, insurance companies and direct sales companies. In many of our product lines, we face competition from competitors that have greater market share or breadth of distribution, offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower profitability expectations or have higher financial strength ratings than we do. A significant change in this competitive environment could materially adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share and profitability. The loss of key personnel could negatively affect our financial results and impair our ability to implement our business strategy. Our success substantially depends on our ability to attract and retain key members of our senior management team. The efforts, personality and leadership of our senior management team have been, and will continue to be, critical to our success. The loss of service of our senior management team due to disability, death, retirement or some other cause could reduce our ability to successfully motivate our sales representatives and implement our business plan and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Messrs. John Addison and Rick Williams, our Co-Chief Executive Officers, are well regarded by our sales representatives and have substantial experience in our business and, therefore, are particularly important to our company. Although both Messrs. Addison and Williams, as well as our other senior executives, have entered into employment agreements with us, there is no assurance that they will complete the term of their employment agreements or renew them upon expiration. In addition, the loss of key RVPs for any reason could negatively affect our financial results and could impair our ability to attract new sales representatives. See “— Risks Related to Our Distribution Structure — Our failure to continue to attract new recruits, retain sales representatives or maintain the licensing of our sales representatives would materially adversely affect our business.” If one of our significant information technology systems fails or if its security is compromised, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our business is highly dependent upon the effective operation of our information technology systems, which are centered on a mainframe platform supported by servers 56 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements housed at our Duluth and Roswell, Georgia sites. We rely on these systems throughout our business for a variety of functions. Our information technology systems run a variety of third-party and proprietary software, including Primerica Online (our website portal to our sales force), our insurance administration system, Virtual Base Shop (our paperless office for RVPs), TurboApps (our point-of-sale data collection tool for product/recruiting applications), our licensing decision and support system and our compensation system. Despite the implementation of security and back-up measures, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to physical or electronic intrusions, viruses or other attacks, programming errors and similar disruptions. The failure of any one of these systems for any reason could cause significant interruptions to our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We retain confidential information in our information technology systems, and we rely on industry standard commercial technologies to maintain the security of those systems. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures and penetrate our information technology systems could access, view, misappropriate, alter, or delete information in the systems, including personally identifiable client information and proprietary business information. In addition, an increasing number of jurisdictions require that clients be notified if a security breach results in the disclosure of personally identifiable client information. Any compromise of the security of our information technology systems that results in inappropriate disclosure or use of personally identifiable client information could damage our reputation in the marketplace, deter people from purchasing our products, subject us to significant civil and criminal liability and require us to incur significant technical, legal and other expenses. In the event of a disaster, our business continuity plan may not be sufficient, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our infrastructure supports a combination of local and remote recovery solutions for business resumption in the event of a disaster. In the event of either a campus-wide destruction of all buildings or the inability to access our main campus in Duluth, Georgia, our business recovery plan provides for our employees to perform their work functions via a dedicated business recovery site located 25 miles from our main campus, by remote access from an employee’s home or by relocation of employees to our New York or Ontario offices. However, in the event of a full scale local or regional disaster, our business recovery plan may be inadequate, and our employees and sales representatives may be unable to carry out their work, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be materially adversely affected by currency fluctuations in the United States dollar versus the Canadian dollar. In recent periods, exchange rate fluctuations have been significant. A weaker Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar would result in lower levels of reported revenues, net income, assets, liabilities and accumulated other comprehensive income in our U.S. dollar financial statements. We have not historically hedged against this exposure. Significant exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and Canadian dollar could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 57 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks Related to Our Relationships with Citi and Warburg Pincus Citi’s continuing significant interest may result in conflicts of interest. As of December 31, 2010, Citi owned approximately 40% of our outstanding common stock. Citi has agreed to limit its representation on our board of directors to one member. For so long as Citi owns a significant portion of our common stock, Citi may be able to influence the outcome of all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors. Citi has agreed to vote its shares of our common stock in favor of directors nominated by Warburg Pincus for so long as Warburg Pincus has rights to nominate one or two directors pursuant to the terms of the securities purchase agreement. Under the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and the intercompany agreement with Citi, the prior consent of Citi will be required in connection with specified corporate actions until Citi ceases to beneficially own shares of our common stock representing 20% or more of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of our then outstanding common stock. Because Citi’s interests may differ from those of other stockholders, actions that Citi may take with respect to us may not be as favorable to other stockholders as they are to Citi. Conflicts of interest may arise between us and Citi in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Citi and its directors and officers will have limited liability for breach of fiduciary duty. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, subject to any contractual provision to the contrary (including the intercompany agreement), Citi has no obligation to refrain from: • engaging in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as we do; • doing business with any of our clients or consumers; or • employing or otherwise engaging any of our officers or employees. Under our certificate of incorporation, neither Citi nor any officer or director of Citi, except as provided in our certificate of incorporation, will be liable to us or to our stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty by reason of any of these activities. If Citi engages in the same type of business we conduct, our ability to successfully operate and expand our business may be hampered. Because Citi may engage in the same activities in which we engage (subject to the terms of the intercompany agreement), there is a risk that we may be in direct competition with respect to insurance underwriting or distribution activities. To address these potential conflicts, we have adopted a corporate opportunity policy which is incorporated into our certificate of incorporation. Due to Citi’s significant resources, including financial resources and name recognition, Citi could have a significant competitive advantage over us should it decide to engage in the type of business we conduct, which may cause our business to be materially adversely affected. Our historical and pro forma financial data are not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as a stand-alone company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. Our historical financial data do not reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved as a stand-alone company during the periods presented or those we will achieve in the future. This is primarily the result of the following factors: • our historical financial data for dates as of or for periods ending on or before March 31, 2010 do not reflect the Transactions; 58 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • for dates as of or periods ending on or before March 31, 2010, our historical financial data reflect allocations of corporate expenses from Citi associated with information technology support, treasury, financial reporting, tax administration, human resources administration, legal, procurement and other services that may be lower than the comparable expenses we would have actually incurred as a stand-alone company; • our cost of debt and our capitalization may be different from that reflected in our historical financial statements for dates as of or for periods ending on or before March 31, 2010; • we are incurring significant costs as a result of becoming a public company, including costs related to public company reporting, investor relations and compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and • the initial public offering may materially affect our client and other business relationships, including supplier relationships, and may result in the loss of preferred pricing available by virtue of our relationship with Citi. Our financial condition and future results of operations will be materially different from amounts reflected in certain of our financial statements that appear elsewhere in this report. As a result of the Transactions, it may be difficult for investors to compare our future results to historical results or to evaluate our relative performance or trends in our business. For an understanding of pro forma financial statements that give effect to, among other things, the Transactions, see “Pro Forma Financial Statements” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. If Citi or Warburg Pincus sells significant equity interests in our company to a third party in a private transaction, our stockholders may not realize any change-of-control premium on shares of our common stock that such party may receive and we may become subject to the control of a presently unknown third party. Each of Citi and Warburg Pincus own a significant equity interest in our company. Each of Citi and Warburg Pincus have the ability, should it choose to do so, to sell some or all of its shares of our common stock in a privately negotiated transaction, which, if sufficient in size, could result in a change of control of our company. The ability of each of Citi and Warburg Pincus to privately sell its shares of our common stock, with no requirement for a concurrent offer to be made to acquire all of the shares of our common stock, could prevent our other stockholders from realizing any change-of-control premium on their shares of our common stock that may otherwise accrue to Citi or Warburg Pincus, as the case may be, upon its private sale of our common stock. Additionally, if Citi or Warburg Pincus privately sells its significant equity interest in our company, we may become subject to the control of a presently unknown third party. Such third party may have conflicts of interest with those of other stockholders. Citi has indicated that it intends to divest its remaining interest in us as soon as is practicable, subject to market and other conditions. Subject to exceptions set forth in the securities purchase agreement, Warburg Pincus has agreed not to transfer pursuant to a public sale the common stock or warrants that it acquires in the private sale or shares of our common stock issued upon exercise of such warrants until the earlier of 18 months after completion of our initial public offering or the reduction of Citi’s beneficial ownership in our outstanding common stock to less than 10%. 59 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We are subject to banking regulations that may limit our business activities. Citi’s relationship and good standing with its regulators are important to the conduct of our business. Citi is a bank holding company and a financial holding company regulated by the FRB under the BHC Act. The BHC Act imposes regulations and requirements on Citi and on any company that the FRB deems to be controlled by Citi. The regulation of Citi and its controlled companies under applicable banking laws is intended primarily for the protection of Citi’s banking subsidiaries, their depositors, the Deposit Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the banking system as a whole, rather than for the protection of stockholders or creditors of Citi or us. Because Citi owns a significant amount of our outstanding common stock, we are currently subject to regulation, supervision, examination and potential enforcement action by the FRB. So long as we are deemed to be controlled by Citi for bank regulatory purposes, we will be subject to regulation by the FRB and to most banking laws, regulations and orders that apply to Citi. The ownership level at which the FRB would consider us no longer controlled by Citi will depend on the circumstances at that time (such as the extent of our relationships with Citi) and could be less than 5%. For so long as we are subject to the BHC Act, we generally may conduct only activities that are authorized for a financial holding company under the BHC Act, which in some cases are more restrictive than those available to us under applicable insurance regulatory requirements. There are limits on the ability of bank subsidiaries of Citi to extend credit to, or conduct other transactions with, us. Citi and its subsidiaries are also subject to examination by various banking regulators, which results in examination reports and ratings that may adversely impact the conduct and growth of our businesses. In the United States, Citi is regulated by the Federal Reserve, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Office of Thrift Supervision and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and we are regulated by the Federal Reserve. In Canada, we are regulated by OSFI, FINTRAC and FCAC. The FRB has broad enforcement authority over us, including the power to prohibit us from conducting any activity that, in the FRB’s opinion, is unauthorized or constitutes an unsafe or unsound practice in conducting our business. The FRB may also impose substantial fines and other penalties for violations of applicable banking laws, regulations and orders. Pursuant to the intercompany agreement we entered into with Citi, we agreed not to take any action or fail to take any action that would result in Citi being in non-compliance with the BHC Act or any other applicable bank regulatory law, rule, regulation, guidance, order or directive. In addition, our business in Canada is subject to Bank Act restrictions for so long as Citi has control of us (in fact or in law). In general, these restrictions permit Citi to carry on in Canada those businesses that Canadian banks are permitted to conduct, and permit Citi to control (including by way of control in fact), or to hold a “substantial investment” in (i.e., more than 25% of the equity or, for a corporation, more than 10% of the voting power), those types of Canadian entities that Canadian banks are permitted to control or in which they are permitted to make substantial investments. Such permitted businesses and investments include most, but not all, financial service businesses, certain related businesses and, subject to limits as to size, scope and length of time held, other businesses. Implementing such business ventures may be subject to a requirement to obtain prior regulatory approval, and are subject to regulatory oversight. We may also be subject to other foreign banking laws and supervision that could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Warburg Pincus may be able to exert significant influence over us, which may result in conflicts of interest with us. As of December 31, 2010, Warburg Pincus owned approximately 23% of our outstanding common stock and has rights to acquire additional shares of our common stock pursuant to its exercise of warrants. Pursuant 60 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements to and subject to the limitations of the securities purchase agreement, including the ownership limitations, Warburg Pincus has a limited right of first offer to purchase shares of our common stock sold by Citi in the future. Warburg Pincus is entitled to nominate two directors to serve on our board, which could be reduced or lost if Warburg Pincus’ ownership interest in us declines. Citi has agreed to vote its shares of our common stock in favor of the election of Warburg Pincus’ nominees to our board of directors. Furthermore, for as long as Warburg Pincus owns a significant amount of our common stock, Warburg Pincus may be able to influence the outcome of all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors. Under the provisions of the securities purchase agreement, the prior consent of Warburg Pincus will be required in connection with specified corporate actions by us. In addition, for so long as it owns a significant amount of our common stock Warburg Pincus will be entitled to preemptive type rights to purchase equity securities issued or proposed to be issued by us, which may limit our ability to access capital from other sources in a timely manner. Because Warburg Pincus’ interests may differ from yours, actions that Warburg Pincus may take with respect to us may not be as favorable to other stockholders as they are to Warburg Pincus. 