Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, as well as other risks not currently known to us or that are currently considered immaterial. The trading price of our Series 1 common stock could decline due to any of the risks and uncertainties described below, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to Our Business We are an early-stage company with a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects and may increase the risk of your investment. We began our operations in September 2007 and did not enter the digital coupons industry until late 2009. Our limited operating history may make it difficult to evaluate our current business and our future prospects. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, including challenges in accurate financial planning and forecasting. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we may encounter as an early-stage company. 11 Table of Contents If we are unable to continue to attract visitors to our websites from search engines, then consumer traffic to our websites could decrease, which could negatively impact the number of purchases generated for our retailers through our marketplace, and therefore negatively impact our ability to maintain or grow our net revenues and profitability. We generate consumer traffic to our websites using various methods, including search engine marketing, or SEM, search engine optimization, or SEO, email campaigns and social media referrals. Our net revenues and profitability levels are dependent upon our continued ability to use a combination of these methods to generate consumer traffic to our websites in a cost-efficient manner. We have experienced and continue to experience fluctuations in search result rankings for a number of our websites. There can be no assurances that we will be able to grow or maintain current levels of consumer traffic to our websites. Our SEM and SEO techniques have been developed to work with existing search algorithms utilized by the major search engines. Major search engines frequently modify their search algorithms. Changes in these algorithms could cause our websites to receive less favorable placements, which could reduce the number of users who visit our websites. We may be unable to modify our SEM and SEO strategies in response to any future search algorithm changes made by the major search engines, which could require a change in the strategy we use to generate consumer traffic to our websites. In addition, websites must comply with search engine guidelines and policies. These guidelines and policies are complex and may change at any time. If we fail to follow such guidelines and policies properly, search engines may rank our content lower in search results or could remove our content altogether from their indices. If we fail to understand and comply with these guidelines, our SEO strategy may become unsuccessful. If we are listed less prominently or fail to appear in search result listings for any reason, including as a result of our failure to successfully execute our SEM and SEO strategies, or our failure to comply with search engine guidelines and policies, it is likely that the number of visitors to our websites will decline. Any such decline in consumer traffic to our websites could adversely impact the number of purchases we generate for our retailers, which could adversely affect our net revenues. We may not be able to replace this traffic with the same volume of visitors or in the same cost-effective manner from other channels, such as cost-per-click search engine marketing or display or other advertising, or at all. An attempt to replace this traffic through other channels may require us to increase our sales and marketing expenditures, which would adversely affect our operating results and which may not be offset by additional net revenues. If we are unable to retain our existing retailers, expand our business with existing retailers or attract new retailers and consumers, our net revenues could decline. Our ability to continue to grow our net revenues will depend in large part on expanding our business with existing retailers and attracting new retailers. The number of our current retailers may not expand materially beyond our existing base and may decline. Furthermore, even for our largest retailers, the amount they pay us is typically only a small fraction of their overall advertising budget. Retailers may view their spend with us as experimental and may either reduce or terminate their spend with us if they determine a superior alternative for generating sales. In addition, retailers may determine that distributing digital coupons through our platform results in undesirably broad distribution of their coupons or otherwise does not provide a compelling value proposition. Some retailers have demanded that we remove digital coupons relating to their products or services from our websites, and we anticipate that some retailers will do so in the future. Retailers also may reduce the commission rates they pay to us for sales our websites facilitate. If we are unable to negotiate favorable terms with current or new retailers in the future, including the commission rates they pay us, our operating results will be adversely affected. Additionally, retailers may fail to pay the performance marketing networks the fees the retailers owe, which is a prerequisite to us receiving our commissions from the networks. Retailers do not enter into long-term obligations with us requiring them to use our solutions and their contracts with us are cancelable upon short or no notice and without penalty. We cannot be sure that our retailers will continue to use our solutions or that we will be able to replace retailers that do not renew their campaigns with new ones generating comparable revenues. 12 Table of Contents If we are unable to attract new consumers and maintain or increase consumer traffic to our websites, new retailers may choose not to use, and existing retailers may not continue to use, our solutions for their promotional campaigns, and our volume of new digital coupon inventory may suffer as the perceived usefulness of our marketplace declines. If our existing retailers do not continue to use our solutions for their promotional campaigns, or if we are unable to attract and expand the amount of business we do with new retailers, our sales will decrease and our operating results will be adversely affected. We are highly dependent on performance marketing networks as intermediaries. Factors adversely affecting our relationships with performance marketing networks, or the termination of these networks, may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain business and our operating results. Most of our net revenues come from commissions earned for promoting digital coupons on behalf of retailers. Often, the commissions we earn are tracked and paid by performance marketing networks. For 2013, 96.1% of our net revenues came from retailers that pay us through performance marketing networks, primarily Commission Junction and LinkShare. Performance marketing networks provide retailers with affiliate tracking links for revenues attribution to publishers and the ability to distribute digital coupon content to multiple publishers. We do not have exclusive relationships with performance marketing networks. They do not enter into long-term commitments to us allowing us to use their solutions, and their contracts with us are cancelable upon short or no notice and without penalty. Our sales could be adversely impacted by industry changes relating to the use of performance marketing networks. For example, if retailers seek to bring the distribution of their digital coupon content in-house rather than using a performance marketing network, we would need to develop relationships with more retailers directly, which we might not be able to do and which could increase our sales, marketing and product expenses. Additionally, we face challenges associated with consumers’ increasing use of mobile devices to complete their online purchases. For example, many retailers currently do not recognize affiliate tracking links on their mobile-optimized websites or applications, and tracking mechanisms on mobile websites or applications may not function to allow retailers to properly attribute sales to us. As a result, we may not receive commission revenues when a consumer makes a purchase from their mobile device on a retailer’s mobile-optimized website after clicking through a digital coupon displayed on one of our websites or mobile applications if the retailer’s mobile monetization mechanisms are not enabled. Moreover, as a result of dealing primarily with performance marketing networks, we have less of a direct relationship with retailers than would be the case if we dealt directly with retailers. The presence of performance marketing networks as intermediaries between us and retailers creates a challenge to building our own brand awareness and affinity with retailers. Additionally, in the event that our relationship with a performance marketing network were to terminate, our mechanism for receiving payments from the retailers we service through that network would terminate, which could materially and adversely impact our net revenues. Some performance marketing networks that we work with could be considered our competitors because they also offer some components of our solution, including publishing digital coupons on their own websites. If they further develop these capabilities, they may offer their own competitive solutions to retailers and, as a result, our ability to compete effectively could be significantly compromised and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. If retailers alter the way they attribute credit to publishers in their performance marketing programs, our net revenues could decline and our operating results could be adversely affected. Retailers often advertise and market digital coupons through performance marketing programs, a type of performance-based marketing in which a retailer rewards one or more publishers for each visitor or customer generated by the publisher’s own marketing efforts. When a consumer executes a purchase on a retailer’s website as a result of a performance marketing program, most performance marketing conversion tracking tools credit the 13 Table of Contents most recent link or ad clicked by the consumer prior to that purchase. This practice is generally known as “last-click attribution.” We generate the vast majority of our net revenues through transactions for which we receive last-click attribution. In recent years, some retailers have sought, and in some cases adopted, alternatives to last-click attribution. These alternatives are primarily “first-click attribution,” which credits the first link or ad clicked by a consumer prior to executing a purchase, or “multichannel attribution,” which applies weighted values to each of a retailer’s advertisements and tracks how each of those advertisements contributed to a purchase. If retailers widely adopt first-click attribution, multichannel attribution or otherwise alter the ways they attribute credit for purchases to us, and if we are unable to adapt our business practices to such alterations, our net revenues could decline and our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. The market in which we participate is intensely competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully. The market for digital coupon solutions is highly competitive, fragmented and rapidly changing. Our competition for traffic from consumers seeking to save money on online or in-store purchases includes digital coupon websites and mobile applications, cash back and loyalty websites, retailers, search engines, social networks, comparison shopping websites, newspapers and direct mail campaigns. Our competition for retailer marketing spend includes digital coupon sites that offer a pay-for-performance model, search engines and social networks that compete for online advertising spend and television, magazines and newspapers that compete for offline advertising spend. With the introduction of new technologies and the influx of new entrants to the market, we expect competition to persist and intensify in the future, which could harm our ability to increase sales and maintain our profitability. We also expect competition in e-commerce generally, and digital coupon solutions in particular, to continue to increase because there are no significant barriers to entry. A substantial number of digital coupon websites, including those that attempt to replicate our business model, have emerged globally. In addition to such competitors, we are experiencing increasing competition from other businesses that offer digital coupons similar to ours as an add-on to their core business. For example, Groupon, Living Social and Coupons.com are now offering digital coupons, and Google and PayPal are now offering digital coupons for in-store purchases. We also expect to compete against other Internet sites that serve niche markets and interests. In addition, we compete with traditional offline coupon and discount services, as well as newspapers, magazines and other traditional media companies that provide coupons and discounts on products and services. Our success depends on the breadth, depth, quality and reliability of our digital coupon selection, as well as our continued innovation and ability to provide features that make our marketplace useful and appealing to consumers. If we are unable to develop quality features that consumers want to use, then consumers may become dissatisfied with our marketplace and elect to use the offerings of one of our competitors, which could adversely affect our operating results. Certain of our larger potential competitors may have the resources to significantly change the nature of the digital coupon industry to their advantage, which could materially disadvantage us. For example, Google, PayPal, Yahoo!, Bing and Facebook have widely adopted industry platforms which they could leverage to distribute digital coupons that could be disadvantageous to our competitive position. Our current and potential competitors may have significantly more financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have, be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products and services, have more extensive consumer bases and deeper relationships, and may have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we have. As a result, these competitors may be better able to respond quickly to new technologies, develop deeper retailer relationships or offer services at lower prices. Any of these developments would make it more difficult for us to sell our solutions and could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses or the loss of market share. In the traditional coupon landscape, our primary competitors for advertising spend include publishers of printable coupons. Many of these competitors have significant consumer reach, well-developed retailer relationships, and much larger financial resources and longer operating histories than we have. 14 Table of Contents We also directly and indirectly compete with retailers for consumer traffic. Many retailers market and offer their own digital coupons directly to consumers using their own websites, email newsletter and alerts, mobile applications, social media presence and other distribution channels. Our retailers could be more successful than we are at marketing their own digital coupons or could decide to terminate their relationship with us because they no longer want to pay us to compete against them. We may face competition from companies we do not yet know about. If existing or new companies develop, market or resell competitive digital coupon solutions, acquire one of our existing competitors or form a strategic alliance with one of our competitors, our ability to compete effectively could be significantly compromised and our operating results could be harmed. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods. If we fail to manage our growth, our financial performance may suffer. We have expanded our overall business, consumer traffic, paid retailers, employee headcount and operations in recent periods. We increased our total number of full-time employees and contractors from 35 as of December 31, 2010 to 444 as of December 31, 2013. We have also established or acquired operations in other countries. In 2011, we acquired the business of VoucherCodes.co.uk, which is based in the U.K. In 2012, we acquired Bons-de-Reduction.com and Poulpeo.com, which are based in France, and relaunched Deals.com in Germany. In March 2013, we acquired Actiepagina.nl, which is based in the Netherlands. In July 2013, we acquired Ma-Reduc.com, which is based in France. In most of these instances, we previously had no presence in these countries. Our business is becoming increasingly complex, especially in light of the number of acquisitions we have integrated and are in the process of integrating. Our limited operating history, reliance on multiple websites and brands and our rapid expansion have placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, operational, product development, sales and marketing, administrative, financial and other resources. We expect to continue to increase headcount and to hire more specialized personnel in the future. We will need to continue to hire, train and manage additional qualified website developers, software engineers, partner management personnel and sales and marketing staff in order to improve and maintain our technology to properly manage our growth. If our new hires perform poorly, if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees or if we are not successful in retaining our existing employees, our business may be harmed. Further, to accommodate our expected growth we must add new hardware and software and improve and maintain our technology, systems and network infrastructure. Failure to effectively upgrade our technology or network infrastructure to support our expected increases in traffic volume could result in unanticipated system disruptions, slow response times or poor experiences for consumers. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel and to support financial reporting requirements as a public company, we will need to improve our transaction processing and reporting, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. These improvements will be particularly challenging if we acquire new operations with different back-end systems. For example, we are in the process of converting the method of collecting a substantial portion of the data necessary to record our net revenues. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. If we are unable to manage our growth successfully and hire additional qualified personnel in an efficient manner, our business, financial conditions and operating results could be adversely affected. We experience quarterly fluctuations in our operating results due to a number of factors that make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Specifically, our net revenues are traditionally strongest in the third and fourth quarters of each year due to increases in holiday shopping. Conversely, our first and second quarter net revenues are typically lower. 15 Table of Contents Since the majority of our expenses are personnel-related and include salaries and stock-based compensation, benefits and incentive-based compensation plan expenses, we have not experienced significant seasonal fluctuations in the timing of our expenses from period to period other than increases in discretionary advertising and promotional spending during the third and fourth quarter holiday shopping period. We plan to continue to increase our investment in sales and marketing and product development substantially as we seek to leverage our solution to capitalize on what we see as a growing global opportunity. We also expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase both to support our growing operations and manage increased costs of operating as a public company. For the foregoing reasons or other reasons we may not anticipate, historical patterns should not be considered indicative of our future sales activity, expenditure levels or performance. Factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include the following: • the number and quality of the digital coupons on our websites and mobile applications; • consumer visits to our websites and use of our mobile applications, and purchases of retail products by consumers resulting from those visits; • the success and costs of our online advertising and marketing initiatives, including advertising costs for paid search keywords that we deem relevant to our business; • the levels of compensation that retailers are willing to pay us to attract customers; • the amount that consumers spend when they make purchases using the digital coupons we provide; • market acceptance of our current and future solutions, including our ability to sell additional solutions to existing retailers and to add new retailers to our business in multiple regions around the world; • overall levels of consumer spending; • the budgeting cycles of our retailers; • the cyclical and discretionary nature of marketing spend and any resulting changes in the number and quality of digital coupons that retailers choose to offer; • changes in the competitive dynamics of the digital coupon industry, including consolidation among competitors, performance marketing networks or customers, and our reputation and brand strength relative to our competitors; • the response of consumers to our digital coupon content; • our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses; • network outages, errors in our solutions or security breaches and any associated expenses and collateral effects; • our ability to achieve the growth rate that was anticipated by us in setting our operating and capital expense budgets; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, as our foreign sales and costs are denominated in local currencies; • costs related to acquisitions or licensing of, or investments in, products, services, technologies or other businesses and our ability to integrate and manage any acquisitions successfully; and • general economic and political conditions in our domestic and international markets. As a result of these and other factors, we have a limited ability to forecast the amount of future net revenues and expenses, and our operating results may vary from quarter to quarter and may fall below our estimates or the expectations of public market analysts and investors. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may lead analysts to change their long-term models for valuing our common stock, cause us to face short-term liquidity 16 Table of Contents issues, impact our ability to retain or attract key personnel or cause other unanticipated issues, all of which could cause our stock price to decline. As a result of the potential variations in our quarterly net revenues and operating results, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our net revenues and operating results may not be meaningful and the results of any one quarter should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. If online commerce does not continue to grow, or contracts, our business may suffer. The business of selling goods and services over the Internet, and the use of digital coupons in those transactions, is dynamic and relatively new. Concerns about fraud, privacy and other challenges may discourage additional consumers from adopting the Internet as a medium of commerce. Acquiring new customers for our marketplace and increasing consumer traffic may become more difficult and costly than it has been in the past, particularly in markets where our marketplace has been available for some time. In order to increase consumer traffic to our websites and use of our mobile applications, we must appeal to consumers who historically have used traditional means of commerce to purchase goods and services and may prefer alternatives to our websites, such as the retailer’s own website. If these consumers prove to be less active than consumers who are already providing traffic to our websites, or we are unable to gain efficiencies in our operating costs, including our cost of increasing consumer traffic to our websites, our business could be adversely impacted. Furthermore, to the extent that weak economic conditions cause consumer spending to decline or cause our customers and potential customers to freeze or reduce their marketing budgets, particularly in the online retail market, demand for our solutions may be negatively affected. If we are not able to maintain a positive perception of the content available through our marketplace, maintain and enhance our RetailMeNot brand and the brands associated with each of our other websites, our reputation and business may suffer. A decrease in the quality of the digital coupons available through our marketplace could harm our reputation and damage our ability to attract and retain consumers and retailers, which could adversely affect our business. Additionally, maintaining and enhancing our RetailMeNot brand and the brands of each of our other websites are critical to our ability to attract new retailers and consumers to our marketplace, generate net revenues and successfully introduce new solutions. We may not be able to successfully build our RetailMeNot brand in the U.S. without losing some or all of the value associated with, or decreasing the effectiveness of, our other brands. We expect that the promotion of our brands will require us to make substantial investments and as our market becomes more competitive, these branding initiatives may become increasingly difficult and expensive. The successful promotion of our brands will depend largely on our marketing and public relations efforts. If we do not successfully maintain and enhance our brands, we could lose consumer traffic, which could, in turn, cause retailers to terminate or reduce the extent of their relationship with us. Our brand promotion activities may not be successful or may not yield net revenues sufficient to offset this cost, which could adversely affect our reputation and business. Our business model depends upon digital coupon inventory that we do not own or otherwise control, and the failure to maintain sufficient inventory or quality of the digital coupons available on our websites may adversely affect our perceived value by consumers and therefore retailers. Our success depends on our ability to provide consumers with the digital coupons they seek. The vast majority of our revenues come from arrangements in which we are paid by retailers to promote their digital coupons. Additionally, approximately one-third of the digital coupons on our websites are submitted by users. Therefore, we do not own or control the inventory of content upon which our business depends. Because a large number of our digital coupons are submitted by users, our efforts to ensure the quality and reliability of those digital coupons are critical to our success. From time to time consumers submit complaints that our digital coupons are invalid or expired. If our algorithms and automated processes for sorting user-submitted digital coupons are ineffective, or if our employees responsible for manual review and curation of user-submitted digital coupons are unable to effectively select and sort the digital coupons that are reliable and most appealing to our users, we may be unable meet the needs of consumers and our operating results may be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents Retailers have a variety of channels through which to promote their products and services. If these retailers elect to promote their coupons and discounts through other channels, less compelling coupons or discounts or not to promote coupons or discounts at all, or if our competitors are willing to accept lower commissions than we are to promote these digital coupons, our ability to obtain content may be impeded and our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. Similarly, if users do not contribute digital coupons to our websites, or if they contribute digital coupons that are not attractive or reliable, the digital coupon inventory in our marketplace may decrease or become less valuable to consumers. If we cannot maintain sufficient digital coupon inventory in our marketplace, consumers may perceive our marketplace as less relevant, consumer traffic to our websites and use of our mobile applications will decline and, as a result, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. Consumers are increasingly using mobile devices to access our content, and if we are unsuccessful in expanding the capabilities of our digital coupon solutions for our mobile platforms to allow us to generate net revenues as effectively as our desktop platforms, our net revenues could decline. Web usage and the consumption of digital content are increasingly shifting to mobile platforms such as smartphones and other connected devices. Industry-wide solutions to monetize digital coupon content effectively on these platforms are at an early stage of development and the future demand and growth prospects for digital coupon content on these mobile platforms is uncertain. The growth of our business depends in part on our ability to deliver compelling solutions to retailers through these new mobile marketing channels. Our success on mobile platforms will be dependent on our interoperability with popular mobile operating systems that we do not control, such as Android, iOS and Windows Mobile, and any changes in such systems that degrade our functionality or give preferential treatment to competitive services could adversely affect usage of our services through mobile devices. Further, to deliver high quality mobile offerings, it is important that our solutions integrate with a range of other mobile technologies, systems, networks and standards that we do not control. We may not be successful in developing relationships with key participants in the mobile industry or in developing products that operate effectively with these technologies, systems, networks or standards. For example, many retailers today do not recognize affiliate tracking links on their mobile websites, and affiliate tracking links on mobile websites may not function to allow retailers’ sales to be attributed to us. As a result, we may not receive commission revenues when a consumer executes a purchase on the retailer’s platform after clicking through a digital coupon displayed on our mobile website or in our mobile applications. If retailers fail to recognize affiliate tracking links on their mobile websites, or affiliate tracking links on mobile websites do not function to allow retailers’ sales to be attributed to us and our mobile traffic continues to increase or represent a higher percentage of our consumer traffic, our business could be harmed and our operating results could be adversely affected. If we fail to achieve success with our mobile applications and mobile website, or if we otherwise fail to deliver effective solutions to advertisers for mobile platforms and other emerging platforms, our ability to monetize these growth opportunities will be constrained, and our business, financial condition and operating results would be adversely affected. Our failure or the failure of third-party service providers to protect our platform and network against security breaches, or otherwise protect our confidential information, could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and operating results. We deliver digital coupon content via our websites, mobile applications and email newsletter and alerts and social media presence, and we collect and maintain data about consumers, including personally identifiable information, as well as other confidential or proprietary information. Our security measures may not detect or prevent all attempts to hack our systems, denial-of-service attacks, viruses, malicious software, break-ins, phishing attacks, social engineering, security breaches or other attacks and similar disruptions that may jeopardize the 18 Table of Contents security of information stored in and transmitted by our platform or that we or our third-party service providers otherwise maintain. Breaches of our security measures or those of our third-party service providers could result in unauthorized access to our platform or other systems; unauthorized access to and misappropriation of consumer information, including consumers’ personally identifiable information, or other confidential or proprietary information of ourselves or third parties; viruses, worms, spyware or other malware being served from our platform; deletion or modification of content, or the display of unauthorized content, on our websites or our mobile applications; or a denial of service or other interruption in our operations. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and may not be known until launched against us or our third-party service providers, we and they may be unable to anticipate these attacks or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any actual or perceived breach of our security could damage our reputation and brand, expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, require us to expend significant capital and other resources to alleviate problems caused by such breaches and deter consumers and retailers from using our online marketplace, which would harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Interruptions or delays in service from third-party data center hosting facilities and other third parties could impair the delivery of our solutions and harm our business. We currently serve our customers from third-party data center hosting facilities located in California, Virginia, the U.K., France, Germany and the Netherlands. All of our data gathering and analytics are conducted on, and the content we deliver is processed through, servers in these facilities. We also rely on bandwidth providers, Internet service providers and mobile networks to deliver content. Any damage to, or failure of, the systems of our third-party providers could result in interruptions to our service. Despite precautions taken at our third-party data centers, these facilities may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from break-ins, computer viruses, denial-of-service attacks, acts of terrorism, vandalism or sabotage, power loss, telecommunications failures, fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes and similar events. The occurrence of any of these events, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in loss of data, lengthy interruptions in the availability of our services and harm to our reputation and brand. While we have disaster recovery arrangements in place, they have not been tested under actual disasters or similar events. Additionally, our third-party data center facility agreements are of limited durations, and our third-party data center facilities have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If for any reason we are unable to renew our agreements with these facilities on commercially reasonable terms or if our arrangement with one or more of our data centers is terminated, we could experience additional expense in arranging for new facilities and support, and we may experience delays in the provisioning of our solutions until an agreement with another data center facility can be arranged. This shift to alternate facilities could take more than 24 hours depending on the nature of the event, which could cause significant interruptions in the delivery of our solutions and adversely affect our business and reputation. In addition, the failure of these facilities to meet our capacity requirements could result in interruptions in the availability or functionality of our solutions or impede our ability to scale our operations. Furthermore, we depend on continuous and uninterrupted access to the Internet through third-party bandwidth providers to operate our business. If we lose the services of one or more of our bandwidth providers for any reason or if their services are disrupted, we could experience disruption in our services or we could be required to retain the services of a replacement bandwidth provider, which could increase our operating costs and harm our business and reputation. Any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our solutions could harm our reputation and may damage our retailers’ businesses. Interruptions in our solutions could cause retailers to terminate their contracts with us, which would likely reduce our net revenues and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents An increase in the return rate of paid retailers’ products or a change in the categories of products retailers choose to promote using digital coupons could reduce our net revenues. The commission revenues we receive from paid retailers is in part a function of the amount consumers purchase from paid retailers and net of product returns. We do not have control over the categories or quality of products or services that our retailers deliver, nor do we have control over the digital coupons they provide us. As a result, we rely on our historical experience for our estimate of returns. If paid retailers’ actual levels of returns are greater than the level of returns we estimate or if paid retailers elect to use digital coupon content to promote products and services with a higher return rate than what we have experienced historically, our net revenues could decline. Because some categories of products tend to experience higher return rates than others, a shift in the types of goods consumers purchase using our solutions could lead to an increase in returns and our net revenues could decline. Additionally, return rates in the foreign countries in which we operate are currently higher than return rates in the U.S. If we continue to expand our operations in countries with high return rates, our operating results may be negatively affected. Regulatory, legislative or self-regulatory developments regarding Internet privacy matters could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Consumer and industry groups have expressed concerns about online data collection and use by companies, which has resulted in the release of various industry self-regulatory codes of conduct and best practice guidelines that are binding for member companies and that govern, among other things, the ways in which companies can collect, use and disclose user information, how companies must give notice of these practices and what choices companies must provide to consumers regarding these practices. We are obligated in certain cases to comply with best practices or codes of conduct addressing matters, such as the online tracking of users or devices. U.S. regulatory agencies have also placed an increased focus on online privacy matters and, in particular, on online advertising activities that utilize cookies, which are small files of non-personalized information placed on an Internet user’s computer, and other online tracking methods. Such regulatory agencies have released, or are expected to release, reports pertaining to these matters. For example, on March 26, 2012, the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, issued a report on consumer privacy intended to articulate best practices for companies collecting and using consumer data. The report recommends companies adopt several practices that could have an impact on our business, including giving consumers notice and offering them choices about being tracked across other parties’ websites and implementing a persistent “Do Not Track” mechanism to enable consumers to choose whether to allow tracking of their online search and browsing activities, including on mobile devices. Various industry participants have worked to develop and finalize standards relating to a Do Not Track mechanism, and such standards may be implemented and adopted by industry participants at any time. We may be required or otherwise choose to adopt Do Not Track mechanisms, in which case our ability to use our existing tracking technologies and permit their use by performance marketing networks and other third parties could be impaired. This could cause our net revenues to decline and adversely affect our operating results. U.S. and foreign governments have enacted, considered or are considering legislation or regulations that could significantly restrict industry participants’ ability to collect, augment, analyze, use and share anonymous data, such as by regulating the level of consumer notice and consent required before a company can employ cookies or other electronic tracking tools. A number of bills have been proposed in the U.S. Congress in the past that contained provisions that would have regulated how companies can use cookies and other tracking technologies to collect and use information about consumers. Some of those bills also contained provisions that would have specifically regulated the collection and use of information, particularly geolocation information, from mobile devices. At least one such bill presently has been proposed in the U.S. Congress. Additionally, the EU has traditionally imposed more strict obligations under data privacy laws and regulations. Individual EU member countries have had discretion with respect to their interpretation and implementation of EU data privacy laws, resulting in variation of privacy standards from country to country. Legislation and regulation in the EU and some EU member states requires companies to obtain specific types of 20 Table of Contents notice and consent from consumers before using cookies or other tracking technologies. To comply with these requirements, the use of cookies or other similar technologies may require the user’s affirmative, opt-in consent. Additionally, in January 2012, the European Commission announced significant proposed reforms to its existing data protection legal framework that, if implemented, may result in a greater compliance burden with respect to our operations in Europe. Changes in global privacy laws and regulations and self-regulatory regimes may force us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. This could compromise our ability to pursue our growth strategies effectively and may adversely affect the demand for our solutions or otherwise harm our business and financial condition. For instance, new privacy laws or regulations or changed interpretations of existing laws or regulations could require performance marketing networks or us to take additional measures to facilitate consumer privacy preferences or to limit or cease altogether the collection, use or disclosure of data. For example, one potential restriction on the use of cookies would allow a website that a consumer has elected to visit to continue to place cookies on the user’s browser without explicit consent, but would require the user’s explicit consent for a third party to place its cookies on the user’s browser. The recent FTC staff report also recommends that websites offer consumers a choice about whether the owner of the website can use third parties to track the consumer’s activity for certain purposes. We are dependent on third parties, including performance marketing networks, to place cookies on browsers of users that visit our websites. If in the future we are restricted from allowing cookies, if there is a material increase in the number of users who choose to opt out or block cookies and other tracking technologies, or if performance marketing networks’ cookies or other tracking mechanisms otherwise do not function properly, our ability to generate net revenues would be significantly impaired. Finally, we may be subject to foreign laws regulating online advertising even in jurisdictions where we do not have any physical presence to the extent a digital media content provider has advertising inventory that we manage or to the extent that we collect and use data from consumers in those jurisdictions. Such laws may vary widely around the world, making it more costly for us to comply with them. Failure to comply may harm our business and our operating results could be adversely affected. Changes in consumer sentiment or laws, rules or regulations regarding the use of cookies and other tracking technologies and other privacy matters could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate net revenues and could adversely affect our ability to collect proprietary data on consumer shopping behavior. Consumers may become increasingly resistant to the collection, use and sharing of information online, including information used to deliver advertising and to attribute credit to publishers in performance marketing programs, and take steps to prevent such collection, use and sharing of information. For example, consumer complaints and/or lawsuits regarding online advertising or the use of cookies or other tracking technologies in general and our practices specifically could adversely impact our business. Consumers can currently opt out of the placement or use of most cookies for online advertising purposes by either deleting or disabling cookies on their browsers, visiting websites that allow consumers to place an opt-out cookie on their browsers, which instructs participating entities not to use certain data about consumers’ online activity for the delivery of targeted advertising, or by downloading browser plug-ins and other tools that can be set to: identify cookies and other tracking technologies used on websites; prevent websites from placing third-party cookies and other tracking technologies on the user’s browser; or block the delivery of online advertisements on websites and applications. Changes in device and software features could make it easier for Internet users to prevent the placement of cookies or to block other tracking technologies. In particular, the default settings of consumer devices and software may be set to prevent the placement of cookies unless the user actively elects to allow them. For example, Apple’s Safari browser currently has a default setting under which third-party cookies are not accepted, and users must activate a browser setting to enable cookies to be set. Additionally, Mozilla Corporation announced on February 25, 2013, that its Firefox browser also will not accept third-party cookies by default. On 21 Table of Contents February 22, 2012, the Digital Advertising Alliance announced that its members will work to add browser-based header signals to the set of tools by which consumers can express their preferences not to be tracked online. A recent FTC report on consumer privacy calls for the development and implementation of a persistent Do Not Track mechanism that enable consumers to choose whether to allow the tracking of their online search and browsing activities. Various industry participants have worked to develop and finalize standards relating to a Do Not Track mechanism, and such standards may be implemented and adopted by industry participants at any time. We are dependent on performance marketing networks or in some instances, retailers, to place cookies on browsers of users that visit our websites or to use other tracking mechanisms to allow retailer sales through our marketplace to be attributed to us, and if we are restricted from allowing these or if they do not function in a manner that allows retailer sales through our marketplace to be attributed to us, our ability to generate net revenues would be significantly impaired. In particular, if consumer sentiment regarding privacy issues or the development and deployment of new browser solutions or other Do Not Track mechanisms results in a material increase in the number of users who choose to opt out or block cookies and other tracking technologies or who are otherwise using browsers where they need to, and fail to, configure the browser to accept cookies, or otherwise results in cookies or other tracking technologies not functioning properly, our ability to conduct our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. In addition to this change in consumer preferences, if retailers or brands perceive significant negative consumer reaction to targeted online advertising or the tracking of consumers’ online activities, they may determine that such advertising or tracking has the potential to negatively impact their brand. In that case, advertisers may limit or stop the use of our solutions, and our operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our business practices with respect to data and consumer protection could give rise to liabilities or reputational harm as a result of governmental regulation, legal requirements or industry standards relating to consumer privacy, data protection and consumer protection. Federal, state and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of data that we collect. We strive to comply with all applicable laws, regulations, self-regulatory requirements and legal obligations relating to privacy, data protection and consumer protection, including those relating to the use of data for marketing purposes. It is possible, however, that these requirements may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other rules or our practices. We cannot assure you that our practices have complied, comply, or will comply fully with all such laws, regulations, requirements and obligations. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with federal, state or international laws or regulations, including laws and regulations regulating privacy, data security, marketing communications or consumer protection, or other policies, self-regulatory requirements or legal obligations could result in harm to our reputation, a loss in business, and proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities, consumers, retailers or others. We may also be contractually liable to indemnify and hold harmless performance marketing networks or other third parties from the costs or consequences of noncompliance with any laws, regulations, self-regulatory requirements or other legal obligations relating to privacy, data protection and consumer protection or any inadvertent or unauthorized use or disclosure of data that we store or handle as part of operating our business. Any such proceeding or action, and any related indemnification obligation, could hurt our reputation, force us to incur significant expenses in defense of these proceedings, distract our management, increase our costs of doing business and cause consumers and retailers to decrease their use of our marketplace, and may result in the imposition of monetary liability. Government regulation of the Internet, e-commerce and m-commerce is evolving, and unfavorable changes or failure by us to comply with these laws and regulations could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We are subject to general business regulations and laws as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet, e-commerce and m-commerce in a number of jurisdictions around the world. Existing and future regulations and laws could impede the growth of the Internet, e-commerce, m-commerce or other online 22 Table of Contents services. These regulations and laws may involve taxation, tariffs, privacy and data security, anti-spam, data protection, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts, electronic communications and consumer protection. It is not clear how existing laws and regulations governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet as the vast majority of these laws and regulations were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by the Internet, e-commerce or m-commerce. It is possible that general business regulations and laws, or those specifically governing the Internet, e-commerce or m-commerce may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other rules or our practices. We cannot assure you that our practices have complied, comply or will comply fully with all such laws and regulations. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with any of these laws or regulations could result in damage to our reputation, a loss in business, and proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others. Any such proceeding or action could hurt our reputation, force us to spend significant resources in defense of these proceedings, distract our management, increase our costs of doing business, and cause consumers and retailers to decrease their use of our marketplace, and may result in the imposition of monetary liability. We may also be contractually liable to indemnify and hold harmless third parties from the costs or consequences of noncompliance with any such laws or regulations. In addition, it is possible that governments of one or more countries may seek to censor content available on our websites and mobile applications or may even attempt to completely block access to our marketplace. Adverse legal or regulatory developments could substantially harm our business. In particular, in the event that we are restricted, in whole or in part, from operating in one or more countries, our ability to retain or increase our customer base may be adversely affected and we may not be able to maintain or grow our net revenues as anticipated. As we develop and provide solutions, we may be subject to additional and unexpected regulations, which could increase our costs or otherwise harm our business. As we develop and provide solutions that address new market segments, we may become subject to additional laws and regulations, which could create unexpected liabilities for us, cause us to incur additional costs or restrict our operations. We have begun to introduce new product offerings, which may be subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities and by authorities in foreign countries. For example, unlike our other solutions, in order to facilitate card-linked offers that we are considering, we must acquire and store consumer credit card data. The storage of credit card data requires compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, or PCI DSS, which compliance certification we recently obtained. Under the PCI DSS, we are required to adopt and implement internal controls over the use, storage and security of credit card data to help prevent credit card fraud. Failure to comply with this standard or other loss of our PCI DSS compliance would result in breaches of contractual obligations with our payment processors, may subject us to fines, penalties, damages and civil liability and could eventually prevent us from processing or accepting credit cards. From time to time, we may be notified of or otherwise become aware of additional laws and regulations that governmental organizations or others may claim should be applicable to our business. Our failure to anticipate the application of these laws and regulations accurately, or other failure to comply, could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity or cause us to alter our business practices, which could cause our net revenues to decrease, our costs to increase or our business otherwise to be harmed. We may face liability for, and may be subject to claims related to, inaccurate or outdated content provided to us, or content provided to us without permission, which could require us to pay significant damages, may be extremely costly to defend even if decided in our favor and could limit our ability to operate. The information on our websites and applications that is provided by performance marketing networks and retailers and collected from third parties relates to digital coupons from retailers participating in the digital coupon industry. We are exposed to the risk that some of this content may contain inaccurate or outdated 23 Table of Contents information about retailer products or services or the discounts thereon, or digital coupons that are not made available or intended to be made available to all consumers. This could cause consumers and retailers to lose confidence in the information provided on our platform or become dissatisfied with our platform and result in lawsuits being filed against us. In addition, we may face potential liability relating to information that is published or made available through our marketplace, including information generated by us, user-generated content and proprietary information of third parties. This content may expose us to claims related to trademark and copyright infringement and other intellectual property rights, rights of privacy, defamation, fraud, negligence, breach of contract, tortious interference, unfairness, deceptiveness, false or misleading advertising, personal injury torts, noncompliance with state or federal laws relating to digital coupons or other theories based on the nature and content of the information. The laws relating to the liability of service providers for activities of their users is currently unsettled both within the U.S. and internationally, although risks related to these types of lawsuits may be enhanced in certain jurisdictions outside the U.S. where our protection from liability for third-party actions is more unclear and where we may be less protected under local laws than we are in the U.S. Such claims or lawsuits could divert the time and attention of management and technical personnel away from our business and result in significant costs to investigate and defend, regardless of the merits of the claims, as well as significant damages if we are found liable. The scope and amount of our insurance may not adequately protect us against these types of damages. Additionally, as a result of such claims, we may elect or be compelled to remove valuable content from our websites or mobile applications, which could decrease the usefulness of our platform for consumers and result in less traffic to our websites and less usage of our mobile applications. If any of these events occur, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Our business could suffer if the jurisdictions in which we operate change the way in which they regulate user-generated content. Our business, including our ability to operate and expand internationally, could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are adopted, interpreted or implemented in a manner that is inconsistent with our current business practices related to user-generated content and that requires changes to these practices or the design of our platform or solutions. For example, if legislation is passed that limits the immunities afforded to websites that publish user-generated content, we may be compelled to remove content from our platform that we would otherwise publish or restrict the types of businesses that we can promote coupon content for, among other changes. Legislative changes such as these were proposed in the U.S. last year and could increase our operating costs and make it more difficult for consumers to use our platform, resulting in less consumer traffic and net revenues, and our business and operating results could suffer. If Texas or any other jurisdiction in which we are resident implements regulations that impose sales tax on certain e-commerce or m-commerce transactions involving the use of performance marketing programs, our net revenues could decline and our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. In 2008, New York implemented regulations that require retailers to collect and remit sales taxes on sales made to residents of New York if the publisher that facilitated that sale is a New York resident. In 2011, Illinois and California each passed similar regulations. In addition, several other states have proposed similar regulations, although some of the regulations proposed by these other states have not passed. None of these sales tax requirements have had a material impact on our results of operations to date. However, if Texas or any other jurisdiction in which we are resident were to pass similar regulations, we believe a substantial number of the retailers that we work with would cease using our marketplace or significantly alter the manner in which they pay us. This would decrease our sales and our business, financial condition and operating results would be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents The growth of e-commerce and m-commerce in the U.S. could suffer if the federal government implements new regulations that obligate retailers, or permit states to obligate retailers, to collect sales taxes from consumers on certain e-commerce or m-commerce transactions, which would adversely affect our growth. Legislation introduced in the 113th Congress in 2013, including H.R. 684 and S. 336, would grant states the authority to require out-of-state retailers to collect and remit sales taxes. The adoption of remote sales tax collection legislation would result in the imposition of sales taxes and additional costs associated with complex sales tax collection, remittance and audit compliance requirements on many of our retailers, which would make selling online or through mobile applications less attractive for these retailers. Additionally, the introduction of new or increased taxes applicable to online transactions could make online purchases less attractive to consumers relative to in-store retail purchases. These changes could substantially impair the growth of e-commerce and m-commerce in the U.S., and could diminish our opportunity to derive financial benefit from our activities in the U.S. We may be sued by third parties for infringement or other violation of their intellectual property or proprietary rights. Internet, advertising and e-commerce companies frequently are subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation, dilution or other violations of intellectual property rights. Some Internet, advertising and e-commerce companies, including some of our competitors, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, which they may use to assert claims against us. Third parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that we have infringed, misappropriated or otherwise violated their intellectual property rights. For instance, the use of our technology to provide our solutions could be challenged by claims that such use infringes, dilutes, misappropriates or otherwise violates the intellectual property rights of a third party. In addition, we may face claims that content published or made available through our websites or mobile applications violates third-party intellectual property rights. For example, retailers and other third parties frequently have complained that their trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property are being used on our websites without their permission and in violation of their rights or in violation of laws or regulations. As we face increasing competition and as a public company, the possibility of intellectual property rights claims against us grows. Such claims and litigation may involve patent holding companies or other adverse intellectual property rights holders who have no relevant product revenue, and therefore our own pending patents and other intellectual property rights may provide little or no deterrence to these rights holders in bringing intellectual property rights claims against us. There may be intellectual property rights held by others, including issued or pending patents and trademarks, that cover significant aspects of our technologies, content, branding or business methods, and we cannot assure that we are not infringing or violating, and have not violated or infringed, any third-party intellectual property rights or that we will not be held to have done so or be accused of doing so in the future. Any claim that we have violated intellectual property or other proprietary rights of third parties, with or without merit, and whether or not settled out of court or determined in our favor, could be time-consuming and costly to address and resolve, and could divert the time and attention of management and technical personnel from our business. Furthermore, an adverse outcome of a dispute may result in an injunction and could require us to pay substantial monetary damages, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees, if we are found to have willfully infringed a party’s intellectual property rights. Any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from such a claim could require us to enter into a licensing agreement to continue using the technology, content or other intellectual property that is the subject of the claim; restrict or prohibit our use of such technology, content or other intellectual property; require us to expend significant resources to redesign our technology or solutions; and require us to indemnify third parties. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required or desirable, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and may require significant royalty payments and other 25 Table of Contents expenditures. There also can be no assurance that we would be able to develop or license suitable alternative technology, content or other intellectual property to permit us to continue offering the affected technology, content or services to our customers. Any of these events could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Failure to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights could harm our business and results of operations. We pursue the registration of our patentable technology, domain names, trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and in certain jurisdictions abroad. We also strive to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights, as well as contractual restrictions. We typically enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with parties with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to, and disclosure and use of, our proprietary information. However, we may not be successful in executing these agreements with every party who has access to our confidential information or contributes to the development of our technology or intellectual property rights. Those agreements that we do execute may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. These contractual arrangements and the other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not prevent the misappropriation or disclosure of our proprietary information nor deter independent development of similar technology or intellectual property by others. Effective trade secret, patent, copyright, trademark and domain name protection is expensive to obtain, develop and maintain, both in terms of initial and ongoing registration or prosecution requirements and expenses and the costs of defending our rights. We are seeking to protect our patentable technology, trademarks and domain names in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and may not be successful or which we may not pursue in every location. We may, over time, increase our investment in protecting our intellectual property through additional patent filings that could be expensive and time-consuming. We have two patents issued and 34 pending patent applications, including three provisional applications. We do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of additional patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims or we may otherwise be unable to obtain patent protection for the technology covered in our pending patent applications. Our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. Moreover, any issued patents may not provide us with a competitive advantage and, as with any technology, competitors may be able to develop similar or superior technologies to our own, now or in the future. Additionally, in the U.S., the central provisions of the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act became effective recently. Among other things, this law switched U.S. patent rights from the former “first-to-invent” system to a “first inventor-to-file” system. This may result in inventors and companies having to file patent applications more frequently to preserve rights in their inventions. This may favor larger competitors that have the resources to file more patent applications. Monitoring unauthorized use of the content on our websites and mobile applications, and our other intellectual property and technology, is difficult and costly. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights and intellectual property may not have been and may not be adequate to prevent their misappropriation or misuse. Third parties from time to time copy content or other intellectual property or technology from our solutions without authorization and seek to use it for their own benefit. We generally seek to address such unauthorized copying or use, but we have not always been successful in stopping all unauthorized use of our content or other intellectual property or technology, and may not be successful in doing so in the future. Further, we may not have been and may not be able to detect unauthorized use of our technology or intellectual property, or to take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Our competitors may also independently develop similar technology. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which our solutions or technology are hosted or available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the U.S., and mechanisms for enforcement of 26 Table of Contents intellectual property rights may be inadequate. Further, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. The laws in the U.S. and elsewhere change rapidly, and any future changes could adversely affect us and our intellectual property. Our failure to meaningfully protect our intellectual property rights could result in competitors offering solutions that incorporate our most technologically advanced features, which could reduce demand for our solutions. We may find it necessary or appropriate to initiate claims or litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of intellectual property rights claimed by others. Litigation is inherently uncertain and any litigation of this nature, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. If we fail to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property, our business and operating results may be harmed. We may be unable to continue the use of our domain names, or prevent third parties from acquiring and using domain names that infringe on, are similar to, or otherwise decrease the value of our brands, trademarks or service marks. We have registered domain names for our websites that we use in our business. If we lose the ability to use a domain name, whether due to trademark claims, failure to renew the applicable registration, or any other cause, we may be forced to market our solutions under a new domain name, which could cause us substantial harm, or to incur significant expense in order to purchase rights to the domain name in question. In addition, our competitors and others could attempt to capitalize on our brand recognition by using domain names similar to ours. Domain names similar to ours have been registered in the U.S. and elsewhere. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring and using domain names that infringe on, are similar to, or otherwise decrease the value of our brands, trademarks or service marks. Protecting and enforcing our rights in our domain names may require litigation, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention. ICANN (the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers), the international authority over top-level domain names, recently increased the number of generic top-level domains, or “TLDs.” This may allow companies or individuals to create new web addresses that appear to the right of the “dot” in a web address, beyond such long-standing TLDs as “.com,” “.org” and “.gov.” ICANN may also add additional TLDs in the future. As a result, we may be unable to maintain exclusive rights to all potentially relevant or desirable domain names in the United States or in other countries in which we operate, which may harm our business. Furthermore, attempts may be made by third parties to register our trademarks as new TLDs or as domain names within new TLDs, and we may be required to enforce out rights against such registration attempts, which could result in significant expense and the diversion of management’s attention. The consumer traffic to our websites and mobile applications may decline and our business may suffer if other companies copy information from our platform and publish or aggregate it with other information for their own benefit. From time to time, other companies copy information or content from our platform, through website scraping, robots or other means, and publish or aggregate it with other information for their own benefit. When third parties copy, publish or aggregate content from our platform, it makes them more competitive, and decreases the likelihood that consumers will visit our websites or use our mobile applications to search and discover the information they seek, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to detect such third-party conduct in a timely manner or at all and, even if we are able to identify these situations, we may not be able to prevent them and have not always been able to prevent them in the past. In some cases, particularly in the case of websites operating outside of the U.S., our available remedies may be inadequate to protect us against such practices. In addition, we may be required to expend significant financial or other resources to successfully enforce our rights. 27 Table of Contents We rely on information technology to operate our business and maintain competitiveness, and any failure to adapt to technological developments or industry trends could harm our business. We depend on the use of information technologies and systems. As our operations grow in size and scope, we must continuously improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure while maintaining or improving the reliability and integrity of our infrastructure. Our future success also depends on our ability to adapt our systems and infrastructure to meet rapidly evolving consumer trends and demands while continuing to improve the performance, features and reliability of our solutions in response to competitive services and product offerings. The emergence of alternative platforms such as smartphones and tablets and the emergence of niche competitors who may be able to optimize products, services or strategies for such platforms will require new investment in technology. New developments in other areas, such as cloud computing, could also make it easier for competition to enter our markets due to lower up-front technology costs. In addition, we may not be able to maintain our existing systems or replace or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as we would like or in a cost-effective manner. Some of our solutions contain open source software, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software and solutions. We use open source software in our solutions and will use open source software in the future. Some licenses governing our use of open source software contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. By the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software, and to make our proprietary software available under open source licenses, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in certain manners. Although we monitor our use of open source software, we cannot assure you that all open source software is reviewed prior to use in our solutions, that our programmers have not incorporated open source software into our solutions, or that they will not do so in the future. Additionally, the terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts. There is a risk that open source software licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to market or provide our solutions. In addition, the terms of open source software licenses may require us to provide software that we develop using such open source software to others on unfavorable license terms. As a result of our current or future use of open source software, we may face claims or litigation, be required to release our proprietary source code, pay damages for breach of contract, re-engineer our solutions, discontinue making our solutions available in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or take other remedial action. Any such re-engineering or other remedial efforts could require significant additional research and development resources, and we may not be able to successfully complete any such re-engineering or other remedial efforts. Further, in addition to risks related to license requirements, use of certain open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of software. Any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage, and, if not addressed, could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to international business uncertainties that could adversely affect our operations and operating results. Our net revenues from operations outside the U.S. comprised 20.6% of our net revenues in 2013, and we expect this percentage to increase in the future. Currently, we have operations in the U.K., France, the Netherlands and Germany. We intend to expand our existing operations in these countries as well as establish a presence in additional countries to grow our international sales. Operating in foreign countries requires significant resources and management attention, and we have limited experience entering new geographic markets. In addition, the varying commercial and Internet infrastructure in other countries may make it difficult 28 Table of Contents for us to replicate our business model. In many countries, we compete with local companies that have more experience in their respective markets than we do, and we may not benefit from first-to-market advantages. To achieve widespread acceptance in new countries and markets, we must continue to tailor our solutions and business model to the unique circumstances of such countries and markets, which can be difficult and costly. Failure to adapt practices and models effectively to each country into which we expand could slow our international growth. We cannot assure you that our international efforts will be successful. International sales and operations may be subject to risks such as: • competition with local or foreign companies entering the same markets; • the cost and resources required to localize our solutions, while maintaining retailer and consumer satisfaction such that our marketplace will continue to attract high quality retailers; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations due to distance, time zones, language and cultural differences; • higher product return rates; • burdens of complying with a wide variety of laws and regulations, including regulation of digital coupon terms, Internet services, privacy and data protection, bulk emailing and anti-competition regulations, which may limit or prevent us from offering of our solutions in some jurisdictions or limit our ability to enforce contractual obligations; • adverse tax effects and foreign exchange controls making it difficult to repatriate earnings and cash; • political and economic instability; • terrorist activities and natural disasters; • differing employment practices and laws and labor disruptions; • technology compatibility; • credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities and difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls; • slower adoption of the Internet as an advertising, broadcast and commerce medium in certain of those markets as compared to the U.S.; • lower levels of consumer spending and fewer opportunities for growth compared to the U.S.; • preference for local vendors; and • different or lesser degrees of intellectual property protection. In addition, the U.S. has in the past proposed, and is currently evaluating, changes to the corporate tax structure that would include taxation of offshore earnings of U.S. businesses. If this were to occur, our effective tax rates would likely increase. Further, we are subject to U.S. and foreign legislation, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. While we maintain high standards of ethical conduct, our policies, training and monitoring of compliance with applicable anti-corruption laws are at a very early stage of development. If any of our employees or agents were to violate these laws in the conduct of our business, we could be subject to substantial penalties and our reputation could be impaired. These factors could have an adverse effect on our net revenues from advertisers located outside the U.S. and, consequently, on our business and operating results. 29 Table of Contents We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates, effectively integrate newly acquired businesses, or achieve expected operating results from acquisitions. Part of our growth strategy is to increase our net revenues and improve our operating results through the acquisition of similar or complementary businesses. There can be no assurance that suitable candidates for acquisitions will be identified or, if suitable candidates are identified, that acquisitions can be completed on acceptable terms, if at all. Since our inception, we have completed more than 10 acquisitions, and we may continue to make acquisitions in the future. Our success will depend in part on our ability to identify, negotiate, and complete acquisitions, and integrate the acquired businesses and, if necessary, satisfactory debt or equity financing to fund those acquisitions. As is the case with our current facility, if we finance an acquisition with debt financing, we will incur interest expense and may have to comply with financing covenants or secure the debt obligations with our assets. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky, and any mergers and acquisitions we complete may not be successful. Any mergers and acquisitions we undertake in the future would involve numerous risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our common stock, including the following: • use of cash resources and incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in funding acquisitions, which may limit our operational flexibility and other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, dividend payments and retirement of outstanding indebtedness; • expected and unexpected costs incurred in identifying and pursuing acquisitions and performing due diligence on potential acquisition targets that may or may not be successful; • failure of the acquired company to achieve anticipated consumer traffic, revenue, earnings or cash flows; • our responsibility for the liabilities of the businesses we acquire, including the assumption of liabilities that were not disclosed to us or that exceed our estimates; • difficulties in integrating and managing the combined operations, technologies and solutions; • failure to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired company, including issues related to intellectual property, solution quality or architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices or employee or customer issues; • diversion of management’s attention or other resources from our existing business; • inability to maintain the key business relationships and the reputations of the businesses we acquire; • difficulties in assigning or transferring technology or intellectual property licensed by acquired companies from third parties to us or our subsidiaries; • uncertainty of entry into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience or in which competitors have stronger market positions; • our dependence on unfamiliar retailers or performance marketing networks of the companies we acquire; • insufficient incremental revenue to offset our increased expenses associated with acquisitions; • our inability to maintain internal standards, controls, procedures and policies; • challenges in integrating and auditing the financial statements of acquired companies that have not historically prepared financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; • impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets such as trademarks or other intellectual property arising from acquisitions; 30 Table of Contents • amortization of expenses related to acquired intangible assets and other adverse accounting consequences; • potential loss of key employees from the companies we acquire; and • dilution of our stockholders’ ownership interests if we finance all or a portion of the purchase price of any acquisition by issuing equity. Further, we rely heavily on the representations and warranties provided to us by the sellers of acquired companies, including as they relate to creation of, ownership of and rights in intellectual property, existence of open source code, existence of encumbrances and operating restrictions and compliance with laws and contractual requirements. If any of these representations and warranties are inaccurate or breached, such inaccuracy or breach could result in costly litigation and assessment of liability for which there may not be adequate recourse against such sellers, in part due to contractual time limitations and limitations of liability. We may need additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, and may dilute your ownership of our Series 1 common stock. We have an aggregate of 85,237,671 shares of Series 1 common stock authorized but unissued and not reserved for issuance under our stock option plans or otherwise. We may issue all of these shares without any action or approval by our stockholders, subject to certain limitations of the NASDAQ Global Select Market. We may require additional capital from equity or debt financing in the future in order to take advantage of strategic opportunities, or to support our existing business. We may not be able to secure timely additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The terms of any additional financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility, including our ability to issue or repurchase equity, develop new or enhanced existing products, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities. If we raise additional funds or finance acquisitions through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, you and our other stockholders could suffer significant dilution in your percentage ownership of our company, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our Series 1 common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, if and when we require it, our ability to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. If our management team does not remain with us in the future, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have been successful in attracting a knowledgeable and talented management team. Our future success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain high-quality management and operating personnel. Our senior management team’s in-depth knowledge of and deep relationships with the participants in our industry are extremely valuable to us. Our business also requires skilled technical and marketing personnel, who are in high demand and are often subject to competing offers. Competition for qualified employees is intense in our industry, and the loss of even a few qualified employees, or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the planned expansion of our business, could harm our operating results and impair our ability to grow. To attract and retain key personnel, we use various measures, including an equity incentive program and incentive bonuses for executive officers and other employees. These measures may not be enough to attract and retain the personnel we require to operate our business effectively. We also have a number of employees who were granted stock options over the past few years that have an exercise price per share that is significantly lower than the current fair market value. If we are successful as a public company, these employees may choose to exercise their options and sell the shares, recognizing a substantial gain. As a result, it may be difficult for us to retain such employees. 31 Table of Contents Our management team has limited experience managing a public company, and regulatory compliance may divert its attention from the day-to-day management of our business. Some of the individuals who now constitute our management team have limited experience managing a publicly traded company and limited experience complying with the increasingly complex laws pertaining to public companies. Our management team may not successfully or efficiently manage our continued transition to a public company that will be subject to significant regulatory oversight and reporting obligations under the federal securities laws. In particular, these new obligations will require substantial attention from our senior management and could divert their attention away from the day-to-day management of our business, which could materially and adversely impact our business operations. Our management team has a limited history of working together and may not be able to execute our business plan. Our management team has worked together for only a limited period of time and has a limited track record of executing our business plan as a team. In addition, we have recently filled a number of positions in our senior management and finance and accounting staff. Accordingly, certain key personnel have only recently assumed the duties and responsibilities they are now performing, and it is difficult to predict whether our management team, individually and collectively, will be effective in operating our business. If we are unable to attract additional partner management and sales representatives, or if a significant number of our partner manager or sales representatives leave us, our ability to increase our net revenues could be negatively impacted. Our ability to expand our business will depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional partner management and sales representatives. Competition for qualified partner managers and sales representatives can be intense, and we may be unable to hire additional team members when we need them or at all. Any difficulties we experience in attracting additional partner managers or sales representatives could have a negative impact on our ability to expand our retailer base, increase net revenues and continue our growth. In addition, we must retain our current partner management and sales representatives and properly incentivize them to obtain new retailer relationships. If a significant number of our partner managers and sales representatives were to leave us or join our competitors, our net revenues could be negatively impacted. In certain circumstances, we have entered into agreements with our partner managers and sales representatives that contain non-compete provisions to mitigate this risk, but we may need to litigate to enforce our rights under these agreements, which could be time-consuming, expensive and ineffective. A significant increase in the turnover rate among our current partner managers or sales representatives could also increase our recruiting costs and decrease our operating efficiency, which could lead to a decline in our net revenues and profitability. If we cannot maintain our corporate culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, teamwork and focus that contribute to our business. We believe that a critical component of our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, encourages teamwork, cultivates creativity and promotes focus on execution. We have invested substantial time, energy and resources in building a highly collaborative team that works together effectively in an environment designed to promote openness, honesty, mutual respect and the pursuit of common goals. As we continue to develop the infrastructure of a public company and continue to grow, we may find it difficult to maintain these valuable aspects of our corporate culture and to attract competent personnel who are willing to embrace our culture. Any failure to preserve our culture could negatively impact our future success, including our ability to attract and retain personnel, encourage innovation and teamwork and effectively focus on and pursue our corporate objectives. 32 Table of Contents The intended tax benefits of our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements depend on the application of the tax laws of various jurisdictions and on how we operate our business. Our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements, including the manner in which we develop and use our intellectual property and the transfer pricing of our intercompany transactions, are intended to reduce our worldwide effective tax rate. We are currently implementing a restructuring of our non-U.S. entities to streamline our European operations, effective January 1, 2014, and we may implement other such structures and arrangements in the future. The application of the tax laws of various jurisdictions, including the U.S., to our international business activities is subject to interpretation and depends on our ability to operate our business in a manner consistent with our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements. The taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements, including our transfer pricing, or determine that the manner in which we operate our business does not achieve the intended tax consequences, which could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. In order to effectively structure and execute our international tax strategy we will need to continue to hire, train and manage qualified personnel. If our new hires underperform, or if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees, our business may be harmed. Our corporate structure includes legal entities located in jurisdictions with income tax rates lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate. Our intercompany arrangements allocate income to such entities in accordance with arm’s-length principles and commensurate with functions performed, risks assumed and ownership of valuable corporate assets. We believe that income taxed in certain foreign jurisdictions at a lower rate relative to the U.S. statutory rate will have a beneficial impact on our worldwide effective tax rate. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. For example, our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in foreign currency exchange rates or by changes in the relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, principles and interpretations. As we operate in numerous taxing jurisdictions, the application of tax laws can be subject to diverging and sometimes conflicting interpretations by tax authorities of these jurisdictions. It is not uncommon for taxing authorities in different countries to have conflicting views, for instance, with respect to, among other things, the manner in which the arm’s length standard is applied for transfer pricing purposes, or with respect to the valuation of intellectual property. In addition, tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. In particular, there is uncertainty in relation to the U.S. tax legislation in terms of the future corporate tax rate but also in terms of the U.S. tax consequences of income derived from intellectual property held overseas in low tax jurisdictions. Our existing corporate structure and intercompany arrangements have been implemented in a manner we believe is in compliance with current prevailing tax laws. However, the tax benefits which we intend to derive from our current and any future intercompany arrangements could be undermined if we are unable to adapt the manner in which we operate our business and if tax laws change. The enactment of legislation implementing changes in the U.S. taxation of international business activities or the adoption of other tax reform policies could materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. The current administration has made public statements indicating that it has made international tax reform a priority, and key members of the U.S. Congress have conducted hearings and proposed new legislation. Recent changes to U.S. tax laws, including limitations on the ability of taxpayers to claim and utilize foreign tax credits and the deferral of certain tax deductions until earnings outside of the U.S. are repatriated to the U.S., as well as 33 Table of Contents changes to U.S. tax laws that may be enacted in the future, could impact the tax treatment of our foreign earnings, as well as cash and cash equivalent balances we currently maintain outside of the U.S. Due to the expanding scale of our international business activities, any changes in the U.S. taxation of such activities may increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on performance marketing networks and retailers to determine the amount payable to us accurately. If their reports are inaccurate or delayed, our operating results could be harmed and we could experience fluctuations in our performance. Our performance marketing networks and retailers typically pay us on a monthly basis based upon sales generated from digital coupons. We rely on our performance marketing networks and retailers to report accurately and in a timely manner the amount of commission revenues earned by us. We calculate our net revenues, prepare our financial reports, projections and budgets and direct our advertising, marketing and other operating efforts based on reports we receive from our performance marketing networks and retailers. It is difficult for us to determine independently whether our performance marketing networks or retailers are reporting all revenue data due to us. We have occasionally experienced instances of incomplete or delayed reports from our performance marketing networks and retailers, and we generally do not have the contractual right to audit our performance marketing networks or retailers. To the extent that our performance marketing networks or retailers fail to report accurately the amount of net revenues payable to us in a timely manner or at all, we will not recognize and collect net revenues to which we are entitled, which could harm our operating results. If we are allowed to audit a performance marketing network or retailer and do so, or if we otherwise dispute the accuracy of a revenue report a performance marketing network or retailer has delivered to us, our recognition of net revenues to which we may ultimately be entitled could be delayed. Conversely, if a performance marketing network or retailer delivers a report overstating the amount of net revenues earned by us in one period and attempts to reverse the overpayment in a subsequent period, whether by seeking a refund from us or reducing a future payment due to us, our recognition of revenue could be overstated. Any such delay or overstatement in our revenue recognition could harm our business and operating results. We obtain the revenue reporting information from our performance marketing networks using a variety of methods, including the use of file transfer protocol file feeds, various application programming interfaces provided by the performance marketing networks and manual downloads of data from the performance marketing networks’ web portals. However, we currently use only file transfer protocol file feeds and manual downloads when collecting the data we use to record our net revenues. The use of these methods inherently subjects us to lower levels of internal control over revenue data, which could result in a misstatement of our net revenues. We are in the process of converting our method of collecting a substantial portion of the data necessary to record our net revenues. We intend to automate this process by using the various application programming interfaces provided by the performance marketing networks. While we have developed detailed testing plans for the conversion to this new method, there is an inherent risk that some errors may go undetected for a period of time following conversion, which could result in a misstatement of our net revenues. If we are unable to comply with all covenants of our current and future debt arrangements, and if our lenders fail to waive any violation of those covenants by us, we could be subject to substantial penalties, which would impair our ability to operate and adversely affect our operating results. We currently have a term debt facility that provides us with cash, which we use to fund our operations and which requires us to comply with a number of restrictive covenants. We may enter into other debt arrangements in the future, which may contain similar or additional restrictive covenants. We are currently subject to covenants related to minimum trailing twelve-month EBITDA levels, a funded debt to EBITDA ratio, a fixed charge coverage ratio (each as more fully described in our amended and restated revolving credit and term loan agreement), and the defense of our intellectual and other property, among others. We may become subject to additional covenants in connection with future debt arrangements. If we are unable to comply with one or more covenants applicable to us and our lenders are unwilling to waive our noncompliance, our lenders may have the 34 Table of Contents right to terminate their commitments to lend to us, cause all amounts outstanding to become due and payable immediately, sell certain of our assets which are collateral for our obligations and take other measures which may impair our operations. If funds under our loan arrangements become unavailable or if we are forced unexpectedly to repay amounts outstanding under our loan arrangements, our assets and cash flow may be insufficient to make such repayments or may leave us with insufficient funds to continue our operations as planned and would have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to currency exchange risk in connection with our international business operations. Cash inflows and outflows in our international operations are typically denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which is our functional currency for financial reporting purposes. For 2013, 2012 and 2011, approximately 20.6%, 17.1% and 9.7%, respectively, of our net revenues were denominated in such foreign currencies. Our reliance on foreign currencies subjects our financial results to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in the proportion of our net revenues and expenses attributable to each of our foreign locations. We recognized a foreign exchange gain of $0.7 million in 2013. In addition, we expect our exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates to increase as we expand our business in existing and new international markets. Although we do not currently engage in any hedging activities relating to foreign currency, we may in the future enter into hedging arrangements in order to manage foreign currency translation but such activity may not completely eliminate fluctuations in our operating results. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely impact our profitability. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired. We are required under GAAP to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. The events and circumstances we consider include the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators and competition. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined. This could adversely impact our results of operations. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, including the risk factors described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and other factors beyond our control. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock include: • variations in our operating results or the operating results of similar companies; • announcements of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements and strategic alliances or agreements by us or by our competitors; • marketing and advertising initiatives by us or our competitors; • the gain or loss of retailer relationships; • threatened or actual litigation; • major changes in our management; 35 Table of Contents • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that follow our Series 1 common stock; • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole; • the overall performance of the equity markets; • sales of shares of our Series 1 common stock by existing stockholders; • volatility in our stock price, which may lead to higher stock-based compensation expense under applicable accounting standards; • adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business; and • the market’s reaction to our reduced disclosure as a result of being an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act. In addition, the stock market in general and the market for e-commerce companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market and industry factors may harm the market price of our Series 1 common stock regardless of our actual operating performance. Each of these factors, among others, could adversely affect your investment in our Series 1 common stock. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class action lawsuits filed against them. If a suit were filed against us, regardless of its merits or outcome, it could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention. Insiders have substantial control over us, and this control may limit our stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and delay or prevent a third party from acquiring control over us. As of January 31, 2014, our directors and executive officers and their affiliates beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 38.8% of our outstanding Series 1 common stock. Further, C. Thomas Ball, a member of our board of directors and a general partner of Austin Ventures, and Jeffrey M. Crowe, a member of our board of directors and a general partner of Norwest Venture Partners, held an aggregate of approximately 19.4% and 10.2% of our Series 1 common stock, respectively. This significant concentration of ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our Series 1 common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. In addition, these stockholders will be able to exercise influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership could limit your ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, including a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, even if that change in control would benefit our other stockholders. Our stock price could decline due to the large number of outstanding shares of our common stock eligible for future sale. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. These sales could also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of January 31, 2014, we had 52,744,984 shares of common stock outstanding. The 17,661,751 shares sold in our initial public offering and our follow-on offering are were immediately tradable without restriction. In addition, on January 15, 2014, 3,444,325 shares became tradable without restriction upon the expiration of 36 Table of Contents lock-up agreements executed in connection with our initial public offering. On March 12, 2014, 31,265,320 shares will be eligible for sale upon the expiration of lock-up agreements executed in connection with our follow-on offering, subject in some cases to volume and other restrictions under Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and various vesting agreements. The representatives of the underwriters may, in their sole discretion and at any time without notice, release all or any portion of the securities subject to lock-up agreements. On August 7, 2013, we registered 10,262,195 shares of our Series 1 common stock that we have issued or may issue under our equity plans, which shares will be eligible for sale upon the expiration of lock-up agreements, subject in some cases to volume and other restrictions under Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act, and various vesting agreements. In addition, some of our employees, including some of our named executive officers, have entered into 10b5-1 trading plans regarding sales of shares of our Series 1 common stock. These plans provide for sales to occur from time to time after the expiration of the lock-up period related to our initial public offering, or with respect to any employee who has entered into a 10b5-1 trading plan that also participated as a selling stockholder in our follow-on offering, after March 31, 2014. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. As of January 31, 2014, holders of approximately 56.9% of our common stock were entitled to rights with respect to the registration of these shares under the Securities Act. If we register their shares of common stock following the expiration of the lock-up agreements, these stockholders could sell those shares in the public market without being subject to the volume and other restrictions of Rule 144 and Rule 701. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant increased expenses and administrative burdens as a public company, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. We face increased legal, accounting, administrative and other costs and expenses as a public company that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including the requirements of Section 404, as well as rules and regulations subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the NASDAQ Global Select Market, impose additional reporting and other obligations on public companies. Compliance with public company requirements has increased our costs and made some activities more time-consuming. A number of those requirements require us to carry out activities we have not done previously. For example, we have created new board committees and adopted new internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. In addition, we have incurred and will continue to incur additional expenses associated with our SEC reporting requirements. Furthermore, if we identify any issues in complying with those requirements (for example, if we or our auditors identify a material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting), we could incur additional costs rectifying those issues, and the existence of those issues could adversely affect us, our reputation or investor perceptions of us. Risks associated with our status as a public company may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We expect that the additional reporting and other obligations imposed on us by these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and the costs of our related legal, accounting and administrative activities by approximately $2.0 million per year. These increased costs will require us to divert a significant amount of money that we could otherwise use to expand our business and achieve our strategic objectives. Advocacy efforts by stockholders and third parties may also prompt additional changes in governance and reporting requirements, which could further increase our costs. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors’ views of us. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide 37 Table of Contents reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. We are in the process of documenting, reviewing and improving our internal controls and procedures for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, harm our ability to operate our business, and reduce the trading price of our stock. As an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act, we are permitted to, and intend to, rely on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements, which could make our common stock less attractive to investors. As an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act, we are permitted to, and intend to, rely on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements. In particular, we do not intend to include all of the executive compensation related information that would be required in our proxy statement if we were not an emerging growth company. In addition, for so long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to: • have an auditor report on our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; • comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding a supplement to the auditor’s report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis); and • submit certain executive compensation matters to shareholder advisory votes, such as “say on pay” and “say on frequency.” In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. An emerging growth company can therefore delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. Although we intend to rely on the exemptions provided in the JOBS Act, the exact implications of the JOBS Act for us are still subject to interpretations and guidance by the SEC and other regulatory agencies. Also, as our business grows, we may no longer satisfy the conditions of an emerging growth company. We will remain an “emerging growth company” until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year during which we have total annual gross revenues of $1 billion or more; (ii) December 31, 2018; (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt; and (iv) the date on which we are deemed to be a “large accelerated filer” under the Exchange Act. We will be deemed a large accelerated filer on the first day of the fiscal year after the market value of our common equity held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million, measured on June 30. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these new rules, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to enjoy part or all of the benefits from the JOBS Act. We cannot predict whether investors will find our common stock less attractive to the extent we rely on the exemptions available to emerging growth companies. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. If securities or industry analysts do not continue to publish research or publish unfavorable or misleading research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our 38 Table of Contents stock or publishes unfavorable or misleading research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the market for our stock and demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our Series 1 common stock. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which apply to us, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to defend against a takeover attempt; • establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following their election; • require that directors only be removed from office for cause and only upon a supermajority stockholder vote; • provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office rather than by stockholders; • prevent stockholders from calling special meetings; and • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our Series 1 common stock appreciates. We currently do not plan to declare dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors, subject to compliance with certain covenants contained in our credit facility, which limit our ability to pay dividends, and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions, and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in our company will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates and you sell your shares at a profit. 39 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 