Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Relating to Our Banking Operations We have recently completed four acquisitions and have a limited operating history from which investors can evaluate our future prospects and financial and operating performance. We were organized in June 2009 and acquired selected assets and assumed selected liabilities of Hillcrest Bank, Bank Midwest, Bank of Choice and Community Banks of Colorado in October 2010, December 2010, July 2011 and October 2011, respectively. Because our banking operations began in 2010, we have a limited operating history upon which investors can evaluate our operational performance or compare our recent performance to historical performance. Although we acquired selected assets and assumed selected liabilities of four depository institutions which had operated for longer periods of time than we have, their business models and experiences are not reflective of our plans. Accordingly, our limited time operating our acquired franchises may make it difficult for investors to evaluate our future prospects and financial and operating performance. Moreover, because a large portion of our loans and OREO are covered by loss sharing agreements with the FDIC and all of the loans and OREO we acquired were marked to fair value at the time of our acquisition, we believe that the historical financial results of the acquisitions are less useful to an evaluation of our future prospects and financial and operating performance. Certain other factors may also make it difficult for investors to evaluate our future prospects and financial and operating performance, including, among others: • our current asset mix, loan quality and allowance for loan losses are not representative of our anticipated future asset mix, loan quality and allowance for loan losses, which may change materially as we undertake organic loan origination and banking activities and pursue future acquisitions; • a large portion of our loans and OREO were covered by loss sharing agreements with the FDIC, which reimburse a variable percentage of losses experienced on these assets; thus, we may face higher losses once the FDIC loss sharing arrangements expire and losses may exceed the discounts we received; • the income we report from certain acquired assets due to loan discount, accretable yield and the accretion of the FDIC indemnification asset will be higher than the returns available in the current market and, if we are unable to make new performing loans and acquire other performing assets in sufficient volume, we may be unable to generate the earnings necessary to implement our growth strategy; • our significant cash reserves and liquid investment securities portfolio, which result in large part from the proceeds of our 2009 private offering of common stock and cash received in connection with our acquisitions of Hillcrest Bank, Bank Midwest, Bank of Choice and Community Banks of Colorado, are unlikely to be representative of our future cash position; • our acquisition history may not be indicative of our ability to execute our external growth strategy, and our inability to execute such strategy would materially and adversely affect us. • our historical cost structure and capital expenditure requirements are not reflective of our anticipated cost structure and capital spending as we integrate our acquisitions and operate our organic banking platform; and • our regulatory capital ratios, minimums of which are required by agreements we have reached with our regulators and which result in part from the proceeds of our private offering of common stock, are not necessarily representative of our future regulatory capital ratios. Continued or worsening general business and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect us. 26 Table of Contents Our business and operations are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States and in our two core markets in Colorado and the greater Kansas City region. If the economies in our core markets, or the U.S. economy more generally, are unable to steadily emerge from the recession that began in 2007 or we experience worsening economic conditions, we could be materially and adversely affected. Weak economic conditions may be characterized by deflation, fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, including a lack of liquidity and/or depressed prices in the secondary market for mortgage loans, increased delinquencies on loans, residential and commercial real estate price declines and lower home sales and commercial activity. All of these factors would be detrimental to our business. Our business is significantly affected by monetary and related policies of the U.S. federal government, its agencies and government-sponsored entities. Changes in any of these policies are influenced by macroeconomic conditions and other factors that are beyond our control and could have a material adverse effect on us. Changes in the assumptions underlying our loss share accounting and acquisition method of accounting could affect our financial information and have a material adverse effect on us. A material portion of our financial results is based on loss share accounting, which is subject to assumptions and judgments made by us and our regulators. In addition, as a result of our recent acquisitions, our financial information is heavily influenced by the application of the acquisition method of accounting. Both methodologies require us to make complex assumptions, which assumptions materially affect our financial results. If these assumptions are incorrect or we change or modify our assumptions, it could have a material adverse effect on us or our previously reported results. As such, any financial information generated through the use of loss share accounting or the acquisition method of accounting is subject to modification or change. If our assumptions are incorrect and we change or modify our assumptions, it could have a material adverse effect on us or our previously reported results Our business is highly susceptible to credit risk and fluctuations in the value of real estate collateralizes such credit. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our clients will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that the collateral securing the payment of their loans (if any) may not be sufficient to assure repayment. The risks inherent in making any loan include risks with respect to the ability of borrowers to repay their loans and, if applicable, the period of time over which the loan is repaid, risks relating to proper loan underwriting and guidelines, risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions, risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers and risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral. Similarly, we have credit risk embedded in our securities portfolio. Our credit standards, procedures and policies may not prevent us from incurring substantial credit losses, particularly in light of market developments in recent years. Soft residential and commercial real estate markets, higher delinquency and default rates, heightened vacancy rates and volatile and constrained secondary credit markets affect the real estate industry generally and in areas in which our business is currently most heavily concentrated. We may be materially and adversely affected by declines in real estate values. The effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could adversely affect the value of collateral securing mortgage loans, mortgage loan originations and gains on sale of mortgage loans. Continued declines in real estate values and home sales volumes, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses or other factors, could have further adverse effects on borrowers that result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which could materially and adversely affect us We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to implement our strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services. We believe that the implementation of our strategy will depend in large part on the skills of our executive management team and our ability to motivate and retain these and other key personnel. Accordingly, the loss of 27 Table of Contents service of one or more of our executive officers or key personnel could reduce our ability to successfully implement our growth strategy and materially and adversely affect us. Although our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, President Midwest Division and Chief of Integration, Technology and Operations have entered into employment arrangements with us, it is possible that they may not complete the term of their employment arrangements or may choose not to renew them upon expiration. Our success also depends on the experience of our branch managers and lending officers and on their relationships with the clients and communities they serve. The loss of these key personnel could negatively impact our banking operations. The loss of key senior personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have a material adverse effect on us. Our allowance for loan losses and fair value adjustments may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses inherent in our loan or OREO portfolio. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through periodic reviews. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding our loans, identification of additional problem loans by us and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. If current trends in the real estate markets continue, we expect that we will continue to experience increased delinquencies and credit losses, particularly with respect to construction, land development and land loans. In addition, our regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital and may have a material adverse effect on us. Our loss sharing agreements impose restrictions on the operation of our business and extensive record-keeping requirements, and failure to comply with the terms of our loss sharing agreements with the FDIC may result in significant losses. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from assets acquired in Hillcrest Bank and Community Banks of Colorado transactions. Certain of the loans, commitments and foreclosed assets acquired in those transactions are covered by the loss sharing agreements, which provide that a significant portion of the losses related to those covered assets will be borne by the FDIC. We may, however, experience difficulties in complying with the requirements of the loss sharing agreements, including the extensive record-keeping and documentation relating to the status and reimbursement of covered assets. The required terms of the agreements are extensive and failure to comply with any of the terms could result in a specific asset or group of assets losing their loss sharing coverage. Additionally, complying with the extensive requirements to avail ourselves of the loss sharing coverage could take management time and attention away from other aspects of running our business. Our loss sharing agreements also impose limitations on the manner in which we manage loans covered by loss sharing. For example, under the loss sharing agreements, we may not, without FDIC consent, sell a covered loan even if in the ordinary course of our business we determine that taking such action would be advantageous for the Company. These restrictions could impair our ability to manage problem loans, extend the amount of time that such loans remain on our balance sheet and increase the amount of our losses. We hold and acquire a significant amount of OREO from time to time, which may lead to increased operating expenses and vulnerability to additional declines in real property values. 28 Table of Contents When necessary, we foreclose on and take title to the real estate (some of which is covered by our FDIC loss sharing arrangement) serving as collateral for our loans as part of our business. Real estate that we own but do use in the ordinary course of our operations is referred to as “other real estate owned,” or “OREO” property. Increased OREO balances have led to greater expenses as we incur costs to manage and dispose of the properties. Despite some of the OREO being covered by loss sharing agreements with the FDIC, we expect that our earnings will continue to be negatively affected by various expenses associated with OREO, including personnel costs, insurance and taxes, completion and repair costs, valuation adjustments and other expenses associated with property ownership, as well as by the funding costs associated with OREO assets. We evaluate OREO properties periodically and write down the carrying value of the properties if the results of our evaluation require it. The expenses associated with OREO and any further OREO write-downs could have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property, and we could become subject to environmental liabilities with respect to one or more of these properties. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing defaulted loans. There is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties, and we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage, civil fines and criminal penalties regardless of when the hazardous conditions or toxic substances first affected any particular property. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses to address unknown liabilities and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on nonresidential real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on us. The expanding body of federal, state and local regulation and/or the licensing of loan servicing, collections or other aspects of our business may increase the cost of compliance and the risks of noncompliance. We service our own loans, and loan servicing is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities as well as to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on those activities. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years and, in addition, some individual municipalities have begun to enact laws that restrict loan servicing activities including delaying or temporarily preventing foreclosures or forcing the modification of certain mortgages. If regulators impose new or more restrictive requirements, we may incur additional significant costs to comply with such requirements which may further adversely affect us. In addition, our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could possibly lead to: civil and criminal liability; loss of licensure; damage to our reputation in the industry; fines and penalties and litigation, including class action lawsuits; and administrative enforcement actions. Any of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect us. The fair value of our investment securities can fluctuate due to market conditions outside of our control. We have historically taken a conservative investment strategy with our securities portfolio, with concentrations of securities that are primarily backed by government sponsored enterprises. In the future, we may seek to increase yields through more aggressive strategies, which may include a greater percentage of corporate securities and structured credit products. Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. These factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency actions in respect of the securities, defaults by the issuer or with respect to the underlying securities, and changes in market interest rates and instability in the capital markets. These factors, among others, could cause other-than-temporary impairments and realized and/or unrealized losses in future periods and declines in other comprehensive income, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The process for determining whether impairment of a security is other-than-temporary 29 Table of Contents usually requires complex, subjective judgments about the future financial performance and liquidity of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security. We face significant competition from other financial institutions and financial services providers, which may materially and adversely affect us. Consumer and commercial banking is highly competitive. Our markets contain a large number of community and regional banks as well as a significant presence of the country’s largest commercial banks. We compete with other state and national financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks and credit unions, for deposits and loans. In addition, we compete with financial intermediaries, such as consumer finance companies, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, securities firms, mutual funds and several government agencies, as well as major retailers, in providing various types of loans and other financial services. Some of these competitors have a long history of successful operations in our markets, greater ties to local businesses and more expansive banking relationships, as well as better established depositor bases. Some of our competitors also have greater resources and access to capital and possess an advantage by being capable of maintaining numerous banking locations in more convenient sites, operating more ATMs and conducting extensive promotional and advertising campaigns or operating a more developed internet platform. Competitors may also exhibit a greater tolerance for risk and behave more aggressively with respect to pricing in order to increase their market share. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among others: • the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term client relationships based on quality service, effective and efficient products and services, high ethical standards and safe and sound assets; • the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet client needs and demands; • the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors; • the ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees to operate our business; • the ability to expand our market position; • client satisfaction with our level of service; • the ability to operate our business effectively and efficiently; and • industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could materially and adversely affect us. We may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of deposit withdrawals and other business needs unless we maintain sufficient liquidity. We require liquidity to make loans and to repay deposit and other liabilities as they become due or are demanded by clients. We principally depend on checking, savings and money market deposit account balances and other forms of client deposits as our primary source of funding for our lending activities. As a result of a decline in depositor confidence, an increase in interest rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, FDIC insurance costs, higher returns being available to clients on alternative investments and general economic conditions, a substantial number of our clients could withdraw their bank deposits with us from time to time, resulting in our deposit levels decreasing substantially, and our cash on hand may not be able to cover such withdrawals and our other business needs, including amounts necessary to operate and grow our business. This would require us to seek third party funding or other sources of liquidity, such as asset sales. Our access to third party funding sources, including our ability to raise funds through the issuance of additional shares of our 30 Table of Contents common stock or other equity or equity-related securities, incurrence of debt, and federal funds purchased, may be impacted by our financial strength, performance and prospects and may also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the unstable credit markets, all of which may make potential funding sources more difficult to access, less reliable and more expensive. We may not have access to third party funding in sufficient amounts on favorable terms, or the ability to undertake asset sales or access other sources of liquidity, when needed, or at all, which could materially and adversely affect us. Like other financial services institutions, our asset and liability structures are monetary in nature. Such structures are affected by a variety of factors, including changes in interest rates, which can impact the value of financial instruments held by us. Like other financial services institutions, we have asset and liability structures that are essentially monetary in nature and are directly affected by many factors, including domestic and international economic and political conditions, broad trends in business and finance, legislation and regulation affecting the national and international business and financial communities, monetary and fiscal policies, inflation, currency values, market conditions, the availability and terms (including cost) of short-term or long-term funding and capital, the credit capacity or perceived creditworthiness of clients and counterparties and the level and volatility of trading markets. Such factors can impact clients and counterparties of a financial services institution and may impact the value of financial instruments held by a financial services institution. Our earnings and cash flows largely depend upon the level of our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on loans, investments and other interest earning assets, and the interest we pay on interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Because different types of assets and liabilities may react differently and at different times to market interest rate changes, changes in interest rates can increase or decrease our net interest income. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest earning assets in a period, an increase in interest rates would reduce net interest income. Similarly, when interest earning assets mature or reprice more quickly, and because the magnitude of repricing of interest earning assets is often greater than interest bearing liabilities, falling interest rates would reduce net interest income. Accordingly, changes in the level of market interest rates affect our net yield on interest earning assets and liabilities, loan and investment securities portfolios and our overall results. Changes in interest rates may also have a significant impact on any future loan origination revenues. Historically, there has been an inverse correlation between the demand for loans and interest rates. Loan origination volume and revenues usually decline during periods of rising or high interest rates and increase during periods of declining or low interest rates. Changes in interest rates also have a significant impact on the carrying value of a significant percentage of the assets, both loans and investment securities, on our balance sheet. We may incur debt in the future and that debt may also be sensitive to interest rates and any increase in interest rates could materially and adversely affect us. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, particularly the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”). Adverse changes in the Federal Reserve’s interest rate policies or other changes in monetary policies and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect us. We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers, and systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business is highly dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers. We outsource many of our major systems, such as data processing, loan servicing systems and deposit processing systems. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and 31 Table of Contents depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If significant, sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of client business, and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, we provide our clients with the ability to bank remotely, including online over the internet and over the telephone. The secure transmission of confidential information over the internet and other remote channels is a critical element of remote banking. Our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security breaches. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our clients involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, regulatory scrutiny, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing clients to lose confidence in our systems and could materially and adversely affect us. We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. As a publicly traded company, we are required to file periodic reports containing our consolidated financial statements with the SEC within a specified time following the completion of quarterly and annual periods. We will also be required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 concerning internal control over financial reporting. We may experience difficulty in meeting the SEC’s reporting requirements. Any failure by us to file our periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner could harm our reputation and cause investors and potential investors to lose confidence in us and reduce the market price of our Class A common stock. Beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our 2013 fiscal year, SEC rules will require that our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer periodically certify the existence and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Beginning with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2018, or such earlier time as we are no longer an “emerging growth company” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (which we refer to as the “JOBS Act”), our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. This process will require significant documentation of policies, procedures and systems, review of that documentation by our internal auditing and accounting staff and our outside independent registered public accounting firm, and testing of our internal control over financial reporting by our internal auditing and accounting staff and our outside independent registered public accounting firm. This process will involve considerable time and attention, may strain our internal resources, and will increase our operating costs. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses and outside auditor fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies that would have to be remediated to satisfy the SEC rules for certification of our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is defined by the standards issued by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that results in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a consequence, we would have to disclose in periodic reports we file with the SEC any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. The existence of a material weakness would preclude management from concluding that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and would preclude our independent auditors from attesting to our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting is effective. In addition, disclosures of this type in our SEC reports could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Moreover, effective 32 Table of Contents internal controls are necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting, it may materially and adversely affect us. Risks Relating to our Growth Strategy We may not be able to effectively manage our growth. Our future operating results depend to a large extent on our ability to successfully manage our rapid growth. Our rapid growth has placed, and it may continue to place, significant demands on our operations and management. Whether through additional acquisitions or organic growth, our current plan to expand our business is dependent upon our ability to: • continue to implement and improve our operational, credit, financial, management and other internal risk controls and processes and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage a growing number of client relationships; • scale our technology platform; • integrate our acquisitions and develop consistent policies throughout the various businesses; and • attract and retain management talent. We may not successfully implement improvements to, or integrate, our management information and control systems, procedures and processes in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. In particular, our controls and procedures must be able to accommodate an increase in loan volume in various markets and the infrastructure that comes with new banking centers and banks. Thus, our growth strategy may divert management from our existing franchises and may require us to incur additional expenditures to expand our administrative and operational infrastructure and, if we are unable to effectively manage and grow our banking franchise, we could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to manage future expansion in our operations, we may experience compliance and operational problems, have to slow the pace of growth, or have to incur additional expenditures beyond current projections to support such growth, any one of which could materially and adversely affect us. Our acquisitions generally will require regulatory approvals, and failure to obtain them would restrict our growth. We intend to complement and expand our business by pursuing strategic acquisitions of community banking franchises. Generally, any acquisition of target financial institutions, banking centers or other banking assets by us will require approval by, and cooperation from, a number of governmental regulatory agencies, possibly including the Federal Reserve, the OCC and the FDIC, as well as state banking regulators. In acting on applications, federal banking regulators consider, among other factors: • the effect of the acquisition on competition; • the financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, capital levels and future prospects of the applicant and the bank(s) involved; • the quantity and complexity of previously consummated acquisitions; • the managerial resources of the applicant and the bank(s) involved; • the convenience and needs of the community, including the record of performance under the Community Reinvestment Act (which we refer to as the “CRA”); • the effectiveness of the applicant in combating money laundering activities; and • the extent to which the acquisition would result in greater or more concentrated risks to the stability of the United States banking or financial system. 33 Table of Contents Such regulators could deny our application based on the above criteria or other considerations, which would restrict our growth, or the regulatory approvals may not be granted on terms that are acceptable to us. For example, we could be required to sell banking centers as a condition to receiving regulatory approvals, and such a condition may not be acceptable to us or may reduce the benefit of any acquisition. The success of future transactions will depend on our ability to successfully identify and consummate acquisitions of financial services franchises that meet our investment objectives. Because of the intense competition for acquisition opportunities and the limited number of potential targets, we may not be able to successfully consummate acquisitions on attractive terms, or at all, that are necessary to grow our business. The success of future transactions will depend on our ability to successfully identify and consummate transactions with target financials services franchises that meet our investment objectives. There are significant risks associated with our ability to identify and successfully consummate these acquisitions. There are a limited number of acquisition opportunities, and we expect to encounter intense competition from other banking organizations competing for acquisitions and also from other investment funds and entities looking to acquire financial institutions and financial services franchises. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and consummating acquisitions directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess ongoing banking operations with greater financial, technical, human and other resources and access to capital than we do, which could limit the acquisition opportunities we pursue. Our competitors may be able to achieve greater cost savings, through consolidating operations or otherwise, than we could. These competitive limitations give others an advantage in pursuing certain acquisitions. In addition, increased competition may drive up the prices for the acquisitions we pursue and make the other acquisition terms more onerous, which would make the identification and successful consummation of those acquisitions less attractive to us. Competitors may be willing to pay more for acquisitions than we believe are justified, which could result in us having to pay more for them than we prefer or to forego the opportunity. As a result of the foregoing, we may be unable to successfully identify and consummate acquisitions on attractive terms, or at all, that are necessary to grow our business. To the extent that we are unable to identify and consummate attractive acquisitions, or increase loans through organic loan growth, we may be unable to successfully implement our growth strategy, which could materially and adversely affect us. We intend to grow our business through strategic acquisitions of financial services franchises coupled with organic loan growth. Previous availability of attractive acquisition targets may not be indicative of future acquisition opportunities, and we may be unable to identify any acquisition targets that meet our investment objectives. Additionally, loan growth, excluding the effects of our acquisitions, has so far been limited and such loan balances have declined as loan repayments from our clients have generally outpaced loan originations due not only to our limited time to cultivate relationships with our clients, but also due to the generally weakened economy and lower levels of quality borrowing demand. As a result, a significant portion of our income thus far has been derived from the accretion recognized on acquired assets rather than from cash interest income. As our acquired loan portfolio, which produces higher yields than our originated loans due to loan discount, accretable yield and the accretion of the FDIC indemnification asset, is paid down, we expect downward pressure on our income to the extent that the runoff is not replaced with other high-yielding loans. As a result of the foregoing, if we are unable to replace loans in our existing portfolio with comparable high-yielding loans, we could be materially and adversely affected. We could also be materially and adversely affected if we choose to pursue riskier higher-yielding loans that fail to perform. Projected operating results for businesses acquired by us may be inaccurate and may vary significantly from actual results. To the extent that we make acquisitions that involve distressed assets, we may not be able to realize the value we predict from these assets or make sufficient provision for future losses in the value of, or accurately estimate the future writedowns to be taken in respect of, these assets. 34 Table of Contents We will generally establish the pricing of transactions and the capital structure of banking franchises to be acquired by us on the basis of financial projections for such banking franchises. In general, projected operating results will be based on the judgment of our management team. In all cases, projections are only estimates of future results that are based upon assumptions made at the time that the projections are developed and the projected results may vary significantly from actual results. General economic, political and market conditions can have a material adverse impact on the reliability of such projections. In the event that the projections made in connection with our acquisitions, or future projections with respect to new acquisitions, are not accurate, such inaccuracies could materially and adversely affect us. Any of the foregoing matters could materially and adversely affect us. Delinquencies and losses in the loan portfolios and other assets we acquire may exceed our initial forecasts developed during our due diligence investigation prior to their acquisition and, thus, produce lower risk-adjusted returns than we believed our purchase price supported. Furthermore, our due diligence investigation may not reveal all material issues. The diligence process in FDIC-assisted transactions is also expedited due to the short acquisition timeline that is typical for these transactions. If, during the diligence process, we fail to identify all relevant issues related to an acquisition, we may be forced to later write down or write off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in significant losses. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect us. Current economic conditions have created an uncertain environment with respect to asset valuations and there is no certainty that we will be able to sell assets or institutions after we acquire them if we determine it would be in our best interests to do so. In addition, currently there is limited or no liquidity for certain asset classes we hold, including commercial real estate and construction and development loans. Risks Relating to the Regulation of Our Industry The enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 may have a material adverse effect on our business On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (which we refer to as the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which imposes significant regulatory and compliance changes. The key effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business are: • changes to regulatory capital requirements; • exclusion of hybrid securities issued on or after May 19, 2010 from tier 1 capital; • creation of new government regulatory agencies (such as the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which will oversee systemic risk, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which will develop and enforce rules for bank and non-bank providers of consumer financial products); • potential limitations on federal preemption; • changes to deposit insurance assessments; • regulation of debit interchange fees we earn; • changes in retail banking regulations, including potential limitations on certain fees we may charge; and • changes in regulation of consumer mortgage loan origination and risk retention. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act restricts the ability of banks to engage in certain proprietary trading or to sponsor or invest in private equity or hedge funds. The Dodd-Frank Act also contains provisions designed to limit the ability of insured depository institutions, their holding companies and their affiliates to conduct certain swaps and derivatives activities and to take certain principal positions in financial instruments. Some provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective immediately upon its enactment. Many provisions, however, will require regulations to be promulgated by various federal agencies in order to be implemented, 35 Table of Contents some of which have been proposed by the applicable federal agencies. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may have unintended effects, which will not be clear until implementation. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act could limit our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with the new requirements could also materially and adversely affect us. Any changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations could be materially adverse to investors in our common stock We operate in a highly regulated environment and the laws and regulations that govern our operations, corporate governance, executive compensation and accounting principles, or changes in them, or our failure to comply with them, could materially and adversely affect us. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations. Intended to protect clients, depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”) these laws and regulations, among other matters, prescribe minimum capital requirements, impose limitations on the business activities in which we can engage, limit the dividends or distributions that we can pay, restrict the ability of institutions to guarantee our debt, and impose certain specific accounting requirements on us that may be more restrictive and may result in greater or earlier charges to earnings or reductions in our capital than GAAP. Compliance with laws and regulations can be difficult and costly, and changes to laws and regulations often impose additional compliance costs. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations, even if the failure follows good faith effort or reflects a difference in interpretation, could subject us to restrictions on our business activities, fines and other penalties, any of which could materially and adversely affect us. Further, any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive and also materially and adversely affect us. We are subject to substantial regulatory limitations that limit the way in which we may operate our business. Our bank subsidiary, NBH Bank, N.A. (“NBH Bank” or the “Bank”), is subject to specific requirements pursuant to the OCC Operating Agreement entered into in connection with our acquisition of certain assets of Bank Midwest, N.A. The OCC Operating Agreement requires, among other things, that the Bank maintain various financial and capital ratios and provide notice to, and obtain consent from, the OCC with respect to any additional failed bank acquisitions from the FDIC or the appointment of any new director or senior executive officer of the Bank. Additionally, the OCC Operating Agreement prohibits the Bank from paying a dividend to the Company until at least the fourth quarter of 2013 and, once the prohibition period has elapsed, imposes other restrictions on the Bank’s ability to pay dividends, including requiring prior non-objection from the OCC before any distribution is made. Also, the OCC Operating Agreement requires that the Bank maintain total capital at least equal to 12% of risk-weighted assets, tier 1 capital at least equal to 11% of risk-weighted assets and tier 1 capital at least equal to 10% of adjusted total assets. The Bank (and, with respect to certain provisions, the Company) is also subject to the FDIC Order issued in connection with the FDIC’s approval of our application for deposit insurance for the Bank. The FDIC Order requires, among other things, that until fourth quarter of 2013, obtaining the FDIC’s approval before implementing certain compensation plans, submit updated business plans and reports of material deviations from those plans to the FDIC and comply with the applicable requirements of the FDIC Policy Statement. Additionally, the FDIC Order requires that the Bank maintain capital levels of at least a 10% tier 1 leverage ratio and a 10% tier 1 risk-based capital ratio until at least the fourth quarter of 2013. A failure by us or the Bank to comply with the requirements of the OCC Operating Agreement or the FDIC Order, or the objection by the OCC or the FDIC to any materials or information submitted pursuant to the OCC Operating Agreement or the FDIC Order, could prevent us from executing our business strategy and materially and adversely affect us. 36 Table of Contents The short-term and long-term impact of the new regulatory capital standards and the forthcoming new capital rules for U.S. banks is uncertain. On September 12, 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, announced an agreement to a strengthened set of capital requirements for internationally active banking organizations in the United States and around the world, known as Basel III. Basel III increases the requirements for minimum common equity, minimum tier 1 capital, and minimum total capital, to be phased in over time until fully phased in by January 1, 2019. Various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act increase the capital requirements of bank holding companies, such as the Company, and non-bank financial companies that are supervised by the Federal Reserve. The leverage and risk-based capital ratios of these entities may not be lower than the leverage and risk-based capital ratios for insured depository institutions. In particular, bank holding companies will no longer be permitted to count trust preferred securities toward their tier 1 capital. While we do not have currently have trust preferred securities, many bank holding companies have long relied on trust preferred securities as a component of their regulatory capital. In June 2012, the Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC released proposed rules which would implement the Basel III and Dodd-Frank Act capital requirements. While the proposed capital requirements would result in generally higher regulatory capital standards, it is uncertain as to exactly how the new standards will ultimately be applied to us and our subsidiary bank and their impact on us or NBH Bank. The FDIC’s restoration plan and the related increased assessment rate could materially and adversely affect us. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured depository institutions, such as our subsidiary bank, up to applicable limits. The amount of a particular institution’s deposit insurance assessment is based on that institution’s risk classification under an FDIC risk-based assessment system. An institution’s risk classification is assigned based on its capital levels and the level of supervisory concern the institution poses to its regulators. Market developments have significantly depleted the DIF of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. As a result of recent economic conditions and the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has increased the deposit insurance assessment rates and thus raised deposit insurance premiums for insured depository institutions. If these increases are insufficient for the DIF to meet its funding requirements, there may need to be further special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Any future additional assessments, increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums may materially and adversely affect us, including by reducing our profitability or limiting our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. Federal banking agencies periodically conduct examinations of our business, including compliance with laws and regulations, and our failure to comply with any supervisory actions to which we become subject as a result of such examinations could materially and adversely affect us. Federal banking agencies periodically conduct examinations of our business, including compliance with laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination, a federal banking agency were to determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of any of our operations had become unsatisfactory, or that the Company or its management was in violation of any law or regulation, it may take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin “unsafe or unsound” practices, to require affirmative actions to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in our capital, to restrict our growth, to assess civil monetary penalties against our officers or directors, to remove officers and directors and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate our deposit insurance. If we become subject to such regulatory actions, we could be materially and adversely affected. 37 Table of Contents We are subject to the Community Reinvestment Act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to a wide variety of sanctions. The CRA, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Department of Justice and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful challenge to an institution’s performance under the CRA or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity, and restrictions on expansion activity. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution’s performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. The Federal Reserve may require us to commit capital resources to support our subsidiary bank. As a matter of policy, the Federal Reserve, which examines us and our subsidiaries, expects a bank holding company to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to a subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support such subsidiary bank. Under the “source of strength” doctrine, the Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act directs the federal bank regulators to require that all companies that directly or indirectly control an insured depository institution serve as a source of strength for the institution. Under this requirement, we could be required to provide financial assistance to our subsidiary bank should our subsidiary bank experience financial distress. A capital injection may be required at times when we do not have the resources to provide it and therefore we may be required to borrow the funds or raise additional equity capital from third parties. Any loans by a holding company to its subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of the subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the holding company’s general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its indebtedness. Any financing that must be done by the holding company in order to make the required capital injection may be difficult and expensive and may not be available on attractive terms, or at all, which likely would have a material adverse effect on us. We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. The federal Bank Secrecy Act, the USA PATRIOT Act and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, established by the U.S. Treasury Department to administer the Bank Secrecy Act, is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements, and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration, and Internal Revenue Service. There is also increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient or the policies, procedures and systems of the financial institutions that we have already acquired or may acquire in the future are deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions (such as restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including our acquisition plans), which could materially and adversely affect us. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us. 38 Table of Contents Federal, state and local consumer lending laws may restrict our ability to originate certain mortgage loans or increase our risk of liability with respect to such loans and could increase our cost of doing business. Federal, state and local laws have been adopted that are intended to eliminate certain lending practices considered “predatory.” These laws prohibit practices such as steering borrowers away from more affordable products, selling unnecessary insurance to borrowers, repeatedly refinancing loans and making loans without a reasonable expectation that the borrowers will be able to repay the loans irrespective of the value of the underlying property. It is our policy not to make predatory loans, but these laws create the potential for liability with respect to our lending and loan investment activities. They increase our cost of doing business and, ultimately, may prevent us from making certain loans and cause us to reduce the average percentage rate or the points and fees on loans that we do make. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations and our bank subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends to us is also subject to regulatory limitations. Our ability to declare and pay dividends depends both on the ability of our bank subsidiary to pay dividends to us and on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends. Because we are a separate legal entity from our bank subsidiary and we do not have significant operations of our own, any dividends paid by us to our common stockholders would have to be paid from funds at the holding company level that are legally available therefor. However, as a bank holding company, we are subject to general regulatory restrictions on the payment of cash dividends. Federal bank regulatory agencies have the authority to prohibit bank holding companies from engaging in unsafe or unsound practices in conducting their business, which depending on the financial condition and liquidity of the holding company at the time, could include the payment of dividends. Additionally, various federal and state statutory provisions limit the amount of dividends that our bank subsidiary can pay to us as its holding company without regulatory approval. Our bank subsidiary is currently prohibited by our OCC Operating Agreement from paying dividends to us until at least the fourth quarter of 2013. Therefore, other than the net proceeds that we received or will receive from the 2009 private offering and from any future financing at the holding company level, we do not have, and do not expect to have in the near future, liquidity at the holding company level to pay dividends to our common stockholders. Finally, holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may, in its unilateral discretion, declare out of funds legally available for such purpose based on a variety of considerations, including, without limitation, our historical and projected financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, capital levels, tax considerations, statutory and regulatory prohibitions and other limitations, general economic conditions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Accordingly, we may not pay the amount of dividends referenced in our current intention above, or any dividends at all, to our common stockholders in the future. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any statements about our expectations, beliefs, plans, predictions, forecasts, objectives, assumptions or future events or performance are not historical facts and may be forward-looking. These statements are often, but not always, made through the use of words or phrases such as “anticipate,” “believes,” “can,” “would,” “should,” “could,” “may,” “predicts,” “potential,” “should,” “will,” “estimate,” “plans,” “projects,” “continuing,” “ongoing,” “expects,” “intends” and similar words or phrases. These statements are only predictions and involve estimates, known and unknown risks, assumptions and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those expressed in or contemplated by such forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, some of which are more fully described in Part I under the caption “Risk Factors.” Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this annual report may turn out to be inaccurate. The inclusion of such forward-looking statements should not be regarded as a representation by us that we will achieve the results expressed in or contemplated by such forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking 39 Table of Contents statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we believe may affect our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, business strategy and growth prospects. There are important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from the results, level of activity, performance or achievements expressed in or contemplated by the forward looking statements, including, but not limited to: • ability to execute our business strategy; • changes in the regulatory environment, including changes in regulation that affect the fees that we charge; • economic, market, operational, liquidity, credit and interest rate risks associated with our business; • our ability to identify potential candidates for, obtain regulatory approval, and consummate, acquisitions of banking franchises on attractive terms, or at all; • our ability to integrate acquisitions and to achieve synergies, operating efficiencies and/or other expected benefits within expected time-frames, or at all, or within expected cost projections, and to preserve the goodwill of acquired banking franchises; • our ability to achieve organic loan and deposit growth and the composition of such growth; • business and economic conditions generally and in the financial services industry; • increased competition in the financial services industry, nationally, regionally or locally, resulting in, among other things, lower risk-adjusted returns; • changes in the economy or supply-demand imbalances affecting local real estate values; • volatility and direction of market interest rates; • effects of any changes in trade and monetary and fiscal policies and laws, including the interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve; • the ability in certain states to amend the state constitution to impose restrictions on financial services by a simple majority of the people who actually vote; • governmental legislation and regulation, including changes in accounting regulation or standards; • failure of politicians to reach consensus on a bipartisan basis; • acts of war or terrorism, natural disasters such as tornadoes, flooding, hail storms and damaging winds, earthquakes, hurricanes or fires, or the effects of pandemic flu; • the timely development and acceptance of new products and services and perceived overall value of these products and services by users; • changes in the Company’s management personnel; • continued consolidation in the financial services industry; • ability to maintain or increase market share; • ability to implement and/or improve operational management and other internal risk controls and processes and our reporting system and procedures; • a weakening of the economy which could materially impact credit quality trends and the ability to generate quality loans; • the impact of current economic conditions and the Company’s performance, liquidity, financial condition and prospects and on its ability to obtain attractive third-party funding to meet its liquidity needs; • fluctuations in face value of investment securities due to market conditions; 40 Table of Contents • changes in fiscal, monetary and related policies of the U.S. federal government, its agencies and government sponsored entities; • inability to receive dividends from our subsidiary bank and to service debt, pay dividends to our common stockholders and satisfy obligations as they become due; • costs and effects of legal and regulatory developments, including the resolution of legal proceedings or regulatory or other governmental inquiries, and the results of regulatory examinations or reviews; • changes in estimates of future loan reserve requirements based upon the periodic review thereof under relevant regulatory and accounting requirements; • changes in capital classification; • impact of reputational risk on such matters as business generation and retention; and • the Company’s success at managing the risks involved in the foregoing items. All forward-looking statements are necessarily only estimates of future results. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or contemplated by the particular forward-looking statement, and, therefore, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements. Any forward-looking statement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the matters discussed elsewhere in this annual report. Further, any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or circumstances, except as required by applicable law. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 