Risk Factors Related to Our Shares of Common Stock The trading price of our shares of common stock may fluctuate significantly. The price of our shares of common stock may be volatile, which means that it could decline substantially within a short period of time. The trading price of the shares may fluctuate, and investors may experience a decrease in the value of the shares that they hold, sometimes regardless of our operating performance or prospects. The trading price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including the following: • future announcements concerning our business and that of our competitors including in particular, the progress of our sales of our injectable drug delivery systems; 33 Table of Contents • regulatory developments; • quarterly variations in operating results; • negative reporting about us in the press; • introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; • acquisition or loss of significant customers, distributors or suppliers; • business acquisitions or divestitures; • fluctuations of investor interest in the injectable drug delivery systems industry; and • fluctuations in the economy, world political events or general market conditions. If there are substantial sales of our shares of common stock, our share price could decline. As of September 4, 2015, we had 136,123,818 shares of common stock outstanding. All of those shares of common stock other than 15,388,729 shares held by our affiliates are freely tradable under the Securities Act. Shares held by our affiliates are eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144. If our stockholders sell a large number of shares of common stock, or the short interest position increases significantly, the market may perceive that our stockholders might sell a large number of shares, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly. In addition, as of September 4, 2015, 3,432,330 shares of our common stock are subject to outstanding stock options and warrants. We have registered the shares issuable upon the exercise of options granted under our Amended and Restated 2009 Stock Incentive Plan. In addition, we have effective registration statements covering the resale of shares of our common stock that are issuable upon the exercise of our remaining options and warrants. If these options and warrants are exercised and the holders choose to sell their shares, such sales could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. For the foreseeable future, we do not intend to declare or pay any dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain our earnings, if any, to finance the development and expansion of our business and product lines. Any future decision to declare or pay dividends will be made by our board of directors and will depend upon a number of factors including our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, under our current bank financing agreements, we are not permitted to pay cash dividends without the prior written consent of the lender. We may be subject to arbitrage risks. Investors may seek to profit by exploiting the difference, if any, in the price of our shares of common stock on the NASDAQ and our CDIs on the ASX. Such arbitrage activities could cause our stock price in the market with the higher value to decrease to the price set by the market with the lower value. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and the Delaware General Corporation Law may delay or deter a change of control transaction. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of deterring takeovers, such as those provisions authorizing our board of directors to issue, from time to time, any series of preferred stock and fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of such series of preferred stock; prohibiting stockholders from acting by written consent in lieu of a meeting; requiring advance notice of stockholder intention to put forth director nominees or bring up other business at a stockholders’ meeting; prohibiting stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; requiring a 66 2/3% majority 34 Table of Contents stockholder approval in order for stockholders to amend our bylaws or adopt new bylaws; and providing that, subject to the rights of preferred shares, the number of directors is to be fixed exclusively by our board of directors. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, from which we did not elect to opt out, provides that if a holder acquires 15% or more of our stock without prior approval of our board of directors, that holder will be subject to certain restrictions on its ability to acquire us within three years. These provisions may delay or deter a change of control of us, and could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 