Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we may currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. Investors should also refer to our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K for updates to these risk factors. 6 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Our Properties Our long-term growth will depend upon future acquisitions of properties, and we may be unable to consummate acquisitions on advantageous terms, the acquired properties may not perform as we expect, or we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate our new acquisitions into our existing operations. We intend to acquire industrial properties in our six target markets. The acquisition of properties entails various risks, including the risks that our investments may not perform as we expect, that we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate our new acquisitions into our existing operations and that our cost estimates for bringing an acquired property up to market standards may prove inaccurate. In addition, we cannot assure you of the availability of investment opportunities in our targeted markets at attractive pricing levels or at all. In the event that such opportunities are not available in our targeted markets as we expect, our ability to execute our business plan may be adversely affected. Further, we face significant competition for attractive investment opportunities from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including pension funds and their advisors, bank and insurance company investment accounts, other public and private real estate investment companies and REITs, real estate limited partnerships, owner-users, individuals and other entities engaged in real estate investment activities, some of which have a history of operations, greater financial resources than we do and a greater ability to borrow funds to acquire properties. This competition increases as investments in real estate become increasingly attractive relative to other forms of investment. As a result of competition, we may be unable to acquire properties as we desire or the purchase price may be significantly elevated. In addition, we expect to finance future acquisitions through a combination of borrowings under our senior revolving credit facility, term loan and the use of retained cash flows, long-term debt and the issuance of common and perpetual preferred stock, which may not be available at all or on advantageous terms and which could adversely affect our cash flows. Any of the above risks could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay distributions on, and the market price of, our common stock and our preferred stock. We may make acquisitions, which pose integration and other risks that could harm our business. We may be required to incur debt and expenditures and issue additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock to pay for industrial properties that we acquire, which may dilute our stockholders’ ownership interests and may reduce or eliminate our profitability. These acquisitions may also expose us to risks such as: • the possibility that we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired properties into our operations; • the possibility that additional capital expenditures may be required; • the possibility that senior management may be required to spend considerable time negotiating agreements and integrating acquired properties; • the possible loss or reduction in value of acquired properties; • the possibility of pre-existing undisclosed liabilities regarding acquired properties, including but not limited to environmental or asbestos liability, of which our insurance may be insufficient or for which we may be unable to secure insurance coverage; and • the possibility that a concentration of our industrial properties in Los Angeles, the San Francisco Bay Area and Seattle may increase our exposure to seismic activity, especially if these industrial properties are located on or near fault zones. We expect acquisition costs, including capital expenditures required to render industrial properties operational, to increase in the future. If our revenue does not keep pace with these potential acquisition costs, we may not be able to maintain our current or expected earnings as we absorb these additional expenses. There is no assurance we would successfully overcome these risks or any other problems encountered with these acquisitions. If we cannot obtain additional financing, our growth will be limited. If adverse conditions in the credit markets — in particular with respect to real estate — materially deteriorate, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our long-term ability to grow through investments in industrial properties will be limited if we cannot obtain additional financing on favorable terms. In the future, we will rely on debt financing, including borrowings under our senior revolving credit facility, issuances of unsecured debt securities and debt secured by individual properties, to finance our acquisition activities and for working capital. If we are unable to obtain debt financing from these or other sources, or to refinance existing indebtedness upon maturity, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. Market conditions may make it difficult to obtain additional financing, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing or that we will be able to obtain it on favorable terms. 7 Table of Contents In addition, to qualify as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income (determined before the deduction for dividends paid and excluding any net capital gains) each year to our stockholders, and we generally expect to make distributions in excess of such amount. As a result, our ability to retain earnings to fund acquisitions, redevelopment and development, if any, or other capital expenditures will be limited. As of December 31, 2012, we had a $100.0 million senior revolving credit facility to finance acquisitions and for working capital requirements. Terreno guarantees the obligations of the borrower (a wholly-owned subsidiary) under the senior revolving credit facility. The senior revolving credit facility, as amended on January 17, 2013, matures on January 19, 2016 and provides for one 12-month extension option exercisable by us, subject, among other things, to there being an absence of an event of default and to our payment of an extension fee. As of December 31, 2012, there were $65.4 million of borrowings outstanding on the senior revolving credit facility. The availability and timing of cash distributions is uncertain. In 2011 and 2012, we made quarterly distributions to holders of our common stock and beginning in September 2012, to holders of our preferred stock and we intend to continue to pay regular quarterly distributions. However, we bear all expenses incurred by our operations, and the funds generated by our operations, after deducting these expenses, may not be sufficient to cover desired levels of distributions to our stockholders. In addition, our board of directors, in its discretion, may retain any portion of such cash for working capital. Our ability to make distributions to our stockholders also will depend on our levels of retained cash flows, which we intend to use as a source of investment capital. We cannot assure our stockholders that sufficient funds will be available to pay distributions. Our corporate strategy is to fund the payment of quarterly distributions to our stockholders entirely from distributable cash flows. However, we may fund our quarterly distributions to our stockholders from a combination of available cash flows, net of recurring capital expenditures, and proceeds from borrowings. In the event we are unable to consistently fund future quarterly distributions to our stockholders entirely from distributable cash flows the value of our shares may be negatively impacted. We depend on key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the contributions of certain key personnel including, but not limited to, our chairman and chief executive officer and our president and chief financial officer, each of whom would be difficult to replace. If any of our key personnel were to cease employment with us, our operating results could suffer. Our ability to retain our senior management group or to attract suitable replacements should any members of the senior management group leave is dependent on the competitive nature of the employment market. The loss of services from key members of the management group or a limitation in their availability could adversely impact our financial condition and cash flows. Further, such a loss could be negatively perceived in the capital markets. We have not obtained and do not expect to obtain key man life insurance on any of our key personnel. We also believe that, as we expand, our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability to hire and retain highly skilled managerial, investment, financial and operational personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure our stockholders that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such skilled personnel. Failure of the projected improvement in industrial operating fundamentals may adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan. A substantial part of our business plan is based on our belief that industrial operating fundamentals are expected to improve over the next several years. We cannot assure you as to whether or when industrial operating fundamentals will in fact improve or to what extent they improve. In the event conditions in the industry do not improve when and as we expect, or deteriorate, our ability to execute our business plan may be adversely affected. Our investments are concentrated in the industrial real estate sector, and our business would be adversely affected by an economic downturn in that sector. Our investments in real estate assets are concentrated in the industrial real estate sector. This concentration may expose us to the risk of economic downturns in this sector to a greater extent than if our business activities included a more significant portion of other sectors of the real estate industry. Events or occurrences that affect areas in which our properties are located may impact financial results. In addition to general, regional, national and international economic conditions, our operating performance will be impacted by the economic conditions of the specific markets in which we operate and particularly of the markets in which we have significant concentrations of properties. If the downturn in the economy in the real estate market or any of our markets persists and we fail to accurately predict the timing of economic improvement in these markets, our operations and our revenue and cash available for 8 Table of Contents distribution, including cash available to pay distributions to our stockholders, could be materially adversely affected. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 34.3% of our buildings were located in Northern New Jersey / New York City, representing approximately 32.0% of our total annualized base rent. We may be unable to renew leases, lease vacant space, including vacant space resulting from tenant defaults, or re-lease space as leases expire. We cannot assure you that leases at our properties will be renewed or that such properties will be re-leased at net effective rental rates equal to or above the then current average net effective rental rates. If the rental rates for our properties decrease, our tenants do not renew their leases or we do not re-lease a significant portion of our available space, including vacant space resulting from tenant defaults, and space for which leases are scheduled to expire, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, cash available for distribution to stockholders, per share trading price of our common stock and preferred stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to renew leases or re-lease a property, the resale value of that property could be diminished because the market value of a particular property will depend in part upon the value of the leases of such property. We face potential adverse effects from the bankruptcies or insolvencies of tenants or from tenant defaults generally. We are dependent on tenants for our revenues, including certain significant tenants. Moreover, certain of our properties are occupied by a single tenant, and the income produced by these properties depends on the financial stability of that tenant. The bankruptcy or insolvency of the tenants at our properties, or tenant defaults generally, may adversely affect the income produced by our properties. The tenants, particularly those that are highly leveraged, could file for bankruptcy protection or become insolvent in the future. Under bankruptcy law, a tenant cannot be evicted solely because of its bankruptcy. On the other hand, a bankrupt tenant may reject and terminate its lease with us. In such case, our claim against the bankrupt tenant for unpaid and future rent would be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease, and, even so, our claim for unpaid rent would likely not be paid in full. This shortfall could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations and could cause us to reduce the amount of distributions to stockholders. A default by a tenant on its lease payments could force us to find an alternative source of revenues to pay any mortgage loan or operating expenses on the property. In the event of a tenant default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs, including litigation and related expenses, in protecting our investment and re-leasing our property. Declining real estate valuations and impairment charges could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. We review the carrying value of our properties when circumstances, such as adverse market conditions, indicate potential impairment may exist. We base our review on an estimate of the future cash flows (excluding interest charges) expected to result from the real estate investment’s use and eventual disposition. We consider factors such as future operating income, trends and prospects, as well as the effects of leasing demand, competition and other factors. If our evaluation indicates that we may be unable to recover the carrying value of a real estate investment, an impairment loss will be recorded to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value of the property. These losses would have a direct impact on our net income because recording an impairment loss results in an immediate negative adjustment to net income. The evaluation of anticipated cash flows is highly subjective and is based in part on assumptions regarding future occupancy, rental rates and capital requirements that could differ materially from actual results in future periods. A worsening real estate market may cause us to reevaluate the assumptions used in our impairment analysis. Impairment charges could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash available for distribution, including cash available for us to pay distributions to our stockholders and per share trading price of our common stock and preferred stock. We utilize local third party managers for day-to-day property management for the majority of our properties. In general, we prefer to utilize local third party managers for day-to-day property management, although we currently manage one of our properties directly and may directly manage more of our properties in the future. To the extent we utilize third party managers, our cash flows from our industrial properties may be adversely affected if our managers fail to provide quality services. In addition, our managers or their affiliates may manage, and in some cases may own, invest in or provide credit support or operating guarantees to industrial properties that compete with our industrial properties, which may result in conflicts of interest and decisions regarding the operation of our industrial properties that are not in our best interests. Our real estate redevelopment strategies may not be successful. In connection with our business strategy, we may pursue redevelopment opportunities or construct improvements of industrial properties that we own. We will be subject to risks associated with our redevelopment and renovation activities that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay distributions on, and the market price of, our common stock. 9 Table of Contents We may not have funding for future tenant improvements. When a tenant at one of our properties does not renew its lease or otherwise vacates its space in one of our buildings in the future, it is likely that, in order to attract one or more new tenants, we will be required to expend funds to construct new tenant improvements in the vacated space. Although we intend to manage our cash position or financing availability to pay for any improvements required for re-leasing, we cannot assure our stockholders that we will have adequate sources of funding available to us for such purposes in the future. Debt service obligations could adversely affect our overall operating results, may require us to sell industrial properties and could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our shares of common stock and preferred stock. Our business strategy contemplates the use of both non-recourse secured debt and unsecured debt to finance long-term growth. As of December 31, 2012, we had total debt outstanding of approximately $177.0 million, which consisted of our senior revolving credit facility and mortgage loans payable. While over the long-term we intend to limit the sum of the outstanding principal amount of our consolidated indebtedness and the liquidation preference of any outstanding shares of preferred stock to less than 40% of our total enterprise value, our governing documents contain no limitations on the amount of debt that we may incur, and our board of directors may change our financing policy at any time without stockholder approval. Over the long-term, we also intend to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio in excess of 2.0x and limit the principal amount of our outstanding floating rate debt to less than 20% of our total consolidated indebtedness. Our board of directors may modify or eliminate these limitations at any time without the approval of our stockholders. As a result, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt, including secured debt, in the future. Incurring debt could subject us to many risks, including the risks that: • our cash flows from operations will be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest; • our debt may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing cash available for distribution to our stockholders, funds available for operations and capital expenditures, future business opportunities or other purposes; • the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of the debt being refinanced; and • the use of leverage could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our shares of common stock and preferred stock. If we incur additional debt in the future, including debt under our senior revolving credit facility, and do not have sufficient funds to repay such debt at maturity, it may be necessary to refinance the debt through additional debt or additional equity financings. If, at the time of any refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest rates on refinancings, increases in interest expense would adversely affect our cash flows, and, consequently, cash available for distribution to our stockholders. If we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we may be forced to dispose of industrial properties on disadvantageous terms, potentially resulting in losses. We may place mortgages on our properties that we own to secure a revolving credit facility or other debt. To the extent we cannot meet any future debt service obligations, we will risk losing some or all of our industrial properties that may be pledged to secure our obligations to foreclosure. Also, covenants applicable to any future debt could impair our planned investment strategy and, if violated, result in a default. Higher interest rates could increase debt service requirements on any floating rate debt that we incur and could reduce the amounts available for distribution to our stockholders, as well as reduce funds available for our operations, future business opportunities, or other purposes. In addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to change our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Adverse economic conditions could cause the terms on which we borrow to be unfavorable. We could be required to liquidate one or more of our industrial properties in order to meet our debt service obligations at times which may not permit us to receive an attractive return on our investments. Our senior revolving credit facility and certain of our existing mortgage loans payable contain, and we expect that our future indebtedness will contain, covenants that could limit our operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We have a senior revolving credit facility, which includes a $100.0 million revolving credit facility and a $50.0 million term loan. We have agreed to guarantee the obligations of the borrower (a wholly-owned subsidiary) under our senior revolving credit facility. Our senior revolving credit facility and certain of our existing mortgage loans payable contain, and we expect that our future 10 Table of Contents indebtedness will contain, financial and operating covenants, such as fixed charge coverage and debt ratios and other limitations that will limit or restrict our ability to make distributions or other payments to our stockholders and may restrict our investment activities. For example, our senior revolving credit facility restricts distributions if we are in default and otherwise limits our fiscal year distributions to 95% of our funds from operations. The covenants in our debt agreements may restrict our ability to engage in transactions that we believe would otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Failure to meet our financial covenants could result from, among other things, changes in our results of operations, the incurrence of debt or changes in general economic conditions. In addition, the failure of at least one of our chief executive officer and our president and chief financial officer or any successors approved by the administrative agent to continue to be active in our day-to-day management constitutes an event of default under our senior revolving credit facility. We have 120 days under our senior revolving credit facility to hire a successor executive reasonably satisfactory to the administrative agent in the event that both our chief executive officer and our president and chief financial officer or any successors cease to be active in our management. If we violate covenants or if there is an event of default under our senior revolving credit facility, our existing mortgage loans payable or in our future agreements, we could be required to repay all or a portion of our indebtedness before maturity at a time when we might be unable to arrange financing for such repayment on attractive terms, if at all. In addition, any unsecured debt agreements we enter into may contain specific cross-default provisions with respect to specified other indebtedness, giving the unsecured lenders the right to declare a default if we are in default under other loans in some circumstances. Defaults under our debt agreements could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may acquire outstanding debt secured by an industrial property, which may expose us to risks. We may acquire outstanding debt secured by an industrial property from lenders and investors if we believe we can acquire ownership of the underlying property in the near-term through foreclosure, deed-in-lieu of foreclosure or other means. However, if we do acquire such debt, borrowers may seek to assert various defenses to our foreclosure or other actions and we may not be successful in acquiring the underlying property on a timely basis, or at all, in which event we could incur significant costs and experience significant delays in acquiring such properties, all of which could adversely affect our financial performance and reduce our expected returns from such investments. In addition, we may not earn a current return on such investments particularly if the loan that we acquire is in default. Adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively affect our financing activity. The credit ratings of the senior unsecured long-term debt that we may incur in the future and preferred stock we may issue in the future are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. Our credit ratings can affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms and pricing of any debt we may incur. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain our credit ratings, and in the event our credit ratings are downgraded, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and may encounter difficulty in obtaining additional financing. Also, a downgrade in our credit ratings may trigger additional payments or other negative consequences under our future credit facilities and debt instruments. For example, if our credit ratings of any future senior unsecured long-term debt are downgraded to below investment grade levels, we may not be able to obtain or maintain extensions on certain of our then existing debt. Adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively impact our refinancing activities, our ability to manage our debt maturities, our future growth, our financial condition, the market price of our stock, and our acquisition activities. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations. We may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as cap contracts and swap agreements. These agreements have costs and involve the risks that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that a court could rule that such agreements are not legally enforceable. Hedging may reduce overall returns on our investments. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our property taxes could increase due to property tax rate changes or reassessment, which would impact our cash flows. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay some state and local taxes on our properties. The real property taxes on our properties may increase as property tax rates change or as our properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. Therefore, the amount of property taxes we pay in the future may increase substantially. If the property taxes we pay increase, our cash flows will be impacted, and our ability to pay expected distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Actions of our joint venture partners could negatively impact our performance. We may acquire and/or redevelop properties through joint ventures, limited liability companies and partnerships with other persons or entities when warranted by the circumstances. Such partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions. Such investments may involve risks not otherwise present with other methods of investment in real estate. We generally will seek to maintain sufficient control of our partnerships, limited liability companies and joint ventures to permit us to achieve our business objectives; however, we may not be able to do so, and the occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay distributions on, and the market price of, our common stock and our preferred stock. If we invest in a limited partnership as a general partner, we could be responsible for all liabilities of such partnership. In some joint ventures or other investments we may make, if the entity in which we invest is a limited partnership, we may acquire all or a portion of our interest in such partnership as a general partner. As a general partner, we could be liable for all the liabilities of such partnership. Additionally, we may be required to take our interests in other investments as a non-managing general partner. Consequently, we would be potentially liable for all such liabilities without having the same rights of management or control over the operation of the partnership as the managing general partner or partners may have. Therefore, we may be held responsible for all of the liabilities of an entity in which we do not have full management rights or control, and our liability may far exceed the amount or value of the investment we initially made or then had in the partnership. The conflict of interest policies we have adopted may not adequately address all of the conflicts of interest that may arise with respect to our activities. In order to avoid any actual or perceived conflicts of interest with our directors, officers or employees, we have adopted certain policies to specifically address some of the potential conflicts relating to our activities. In addition, our board of directors is subject to certain provisions of Maryland law, which are also designed to eliminate or minimize conflicts. Although under these policies the approval of a majority of our disinterested directors is required to approve any transaction, agreement or relationship in which any of our directors, officers or employees has an interest, there is no assurance that these policies will be adequate to address all of the conflicts that may arise or will address such conflicts in a manner that is favorable to us. We may not be able to successfully operate our business. We were organized in November 2009 and commenced operations on February 16, 2010. We may not be able to successfully operate our business or implement our operating policies and investment strategy. Furthermore, we may not be able to generate sufficient operating cash flows to pay our operating expenses, service our debt and maintain and make distributions to our stockholders. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, create effective operating and financial controls and systems or effectively manage our anticipated growth, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results. Our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls over financial reporting. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal controls over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal controls over financial reporting which may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in our stock price, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Volatility in the capital and credit markets could materially and adversely impact us. The capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption in recent years, which has made it more difficult to borrow money or raise equity capital. Market volatility and disruption could hinder our ability to obtain new debt financing or refinance our maturing debt on favorable terms or at all. In addition, our future access to the equity markets could be limited. Any such financing or refinancing issues could materially and adversely affect us. Market turmoil and tightening of credit in recent years have also led to an increased lack of consumer confidence and widespread reduction of business activity generally, which also could materially and adversely impact us, including our ability to acquire and dispose of assets on favorable terms or at all. The volatility in capital and credit markets may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and preferred stock. 12 Table of Contents We may not acquire the industrial properties that we have entered into agreements to acquire. We have entered into agreements with third-party sellers to acquire three industrial buildings containing an aggregate of approximately 178,783 square feet as more fully described under the heading “Contractual Obligations” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. There is no assurance that we will acquire the properties under contract because the proposed acquisitions are subject to the completion of satisfactory due diligence and various closing conditions and there is no assurance that such proposed acquisitions, if completed, will be completed on the timeframe we expect. If we do not complete the acquisition of the properties under contract, we will have incurred expenses without our stockholders realizing any benefit from the acquisition of such properties. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry Our performance and value are subject to general economic conditions and risks associated with our real estate assets. The investment returns available from equity investments in real estate depend on the amount of income earned and capital appreciation generated by the properties, as well as the expenses incurred in connection with the properties. If our properties do not generate income sufficient to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, then our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected. In addition, there are significant expenditures associated with an investment in real estate (such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs) that generally do not decline when circumstances reduce the income from the property. Income from and the value of our properties may be adversely affected by: • downturns in national, regional and local economic conditions (particularly increases in unemployment); • the attractiveness of our properties to potential tenants and competition from other industrial properties; • changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing properties in an area; • bankruptcies, financial difficulties or lease defaults by the tenants of our properties; • changes in interest rates, availability and terms of debt financing; • changes in operating costs and expenses and our ability to control rents; • changes in, or increased costs of compliance with, governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including changes in tax, real estate, environmental and zoning laws, and our potential liability thereunder; • our ability to provide adequate maintenance and insurance; • changes in the cost or availability of insurance, including coverage for mold or asbestos; • unanticipated changes in costs associated with known adverse environmental conditions or retained liabilities for such conditions; • periods of high interest rates; • tenant turnover; • general overbuilding or excess supply in the market area; and • disruptions in the global supply chain caused by political, regulatory or other factors including terrorism. In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession, rising interest rates or declining demand for real estate, or public perception that any of these events may occur, would result in a general decrease in rents or an increased occurrence of defaults under existing leases, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Future terrorist attacks may result in declining economic activity, which could reduce the demand for, and the value of, our properties. To the extent that future attacks impact the tenants of our properties, their businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to honor their existing leases. For these and other reasons, we cannot assure our stockholders that we will be profitable or that we will realize growth in the value of our real estate properties. Actions by our competitors may decrease or prevent increases in the occupancy and rental rates of our properties. We compete with other developers, owners and operators of real estate, some of which own properties similar to our properties in the same markets and submarkets in which the properties we own are located. If our competitors offer space at rental 13 Table of Contents rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we will charge the tenants of our properties, we may lose potential tenants, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates in order to retain tenants when such tenants’ leases expire. In addition, if our competitors sell assets similar to assets we intend to divest in the same markets and/or at valuations below our valuations for comparable assets, we may be unable to divest our assets at all or at favorable pricing or on favorable terms. As a result of these actions by our competitors, our financial condition, cash flows, cash available for distribution, trading price of our common stock and preferred stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations could be materially adversely affected. Real estate investments are not as liquid as other types of assets, which may reduce economic returns to investors. Real estate investments are not as liquid as other types of investments, and this lack of liquidity may limit our ability to react promptly to changes in economic, financial, investment or other conditions. In addition, significant expenditures associated with real estate investments, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investments. In addition, we intend to comply with the safe harbor rules relating to the number of properties that can be disposed of in a year, the tax bases and the costs of improvements made to these properties, and meet other tests which enable a REIT to avoid punitive taxation on the sale of assets. Thus, our ability at any time to sell assets or contribute assets to property funds or other entities in which we have an ownership interest may be restricted. This lack of liquidity may limit our ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic, financial, investment or other conditions and, as a result, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to pay distributions on, and the market price of, our common stock and preferred stock. Uninsured or underinsured losses relating to real property may adversely affect our returns. We will attempt to ensure that all of our properties are adequately insured to cover casualty losses. However, there are certain losses, including losses from floods, hurricanes, fires, earthquakes and other natural disasters, acts of war, acts of terrorism or riots, that are not generally insured against or that are not generally fully insured against because it is not deemed economically feasible or prudent to do so. In addition, changes in the cost or availability of insurance could expose us to uninsured casualty losses. In the event that any of our properties incurs a casualty loss that is not fully covered by insurance, the value of our assets will be reduced by the amount of any such uninsured loss, and we could experience a significant loss of capital invested and potential revenues in these properties and could potentially remain obligated under any recourse debt associated with the property. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might also keep us from using insurance proceeds to replace or renovate a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under those circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might be inadequate to restore our economic position on the damaged or destroyed property. Any such losses could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay distributions on, and the market price of, our common stock. In addition, we may have no source of funding to repair or reconstruct the damaged property, and we cannot assure that any such sources of funding will be available to us for such purposes in the future. We own properties in Los Angeles, the San Francisco Bay Area and Seattle, which are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity. Although we carry replacement-cost earthquake insurance on all of our properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that we believe are commercially reasonable, we may not be able to obtain coverage to cover all losses with respect to such properties on economically favorable terms, which could expose us to uninsured casualty losses. We intend to evaluate our earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice. We own properties located in areas which are known to be subject to hurricane and/or flood risk. Although we carry replacement-cost hurricane and/or flood hazard insurance on all of our properties located in areas historically subject to such activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that we believe are commercially reasonable, we may not be able to obtain coverage to cover all losses with respect to such properties on economically favorable terms, which could expose us to uninsured casualty losses. We intend to evaluate our insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice. Contingent or unknown liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition. We may own or acquire properties that are subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of any of these entities or properties, then we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flows. Unknown liabilities with respect to entities or properties acquired might include: • liabilities for clean-up or remediation of adverse environmental conditions; • accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; • tax liabilities; and • claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and directors and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. 14 Table of Contents Environmentally hazardous conditions may adversely affect our operating results. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removing or remediating hazardous or toxic substances on such property. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by applicable environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages based on personal injury, natural resource or property damage or other costs, including investigation and clean-up costs, resulting from the environmental contamination. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances on one of our properties, or the failure to properly remediate a contaminated property, could give rise to a lien in favor of the government for costs it may incur to address the contamination, or otherwise adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or borrow using the property as collateral. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated. A property owner who violates environmental laws may be subject to sanctions which may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, private parties. In connection with the acquisition and ownership of our properties, we may be exposed to such costs. The cost of defending against environmental claims, of compliance with environmental regulatory requirements or of remediating any contaminated property could materially adversely affect our business, assets or results of operations and, consequently, amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. Environmental laws in the U.S. also require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos. Some of our properties may contain asbestos-containing building materials. We invest in properties historically used for industrial, manufacturing and commercial purposes. Some of these properties contain, or may have contained, underground storage tanks for the storage of petroleum products and other hazardous or toxic substances. All of these operations create a potential for the release of petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. Some of our properties may be adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain underground storage tanks used to store petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, certain of our properties may be on or are adjacent to or near other properties upon which others, including former owners or tenants of such properties, have engaged, or may in the future engage, in activities that may release petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. As needed, we may obtain environmental insurance policies on commercially reasonable terms that provide coverage for potential environmental liabilities, subject to the policy’s coverage conditions and limitations. From time to time, we may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with known adverse environmental conditions where we believe that the environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk-adjusted return. In such an instance, we underwrite the costs of environmental investigation, clean-up and monitoring into the cost. Further, in connection with property dispositions, we may agree to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties. We generally obtain Phase I environmental site assessments on each property prior to acquiring it and we generally anticipate that the properties that we may acquire in the future may be subject to a Phase I or similar environmental assessment by independent environmental consultants at the time of acquisition. Phase I assessments are intended to discover and evaluate information regarding the environmental condition of the surveyed property and surrounding properties. Phase I assessments generally include a historical review, a public records review, an investigation of the surveyed site and surrounding properties, and preparation and issuance of a written report, but do not include soil sampling or subsurface investigations and typically do not include an asbestos survey. Even if none of our environmental assessments of our properties reveal an environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations taken as a whole, we cannot give any assurance that such conditions do not exist or may not arise in the future. Material environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns may arise after the environmental assessment has been completed. Moreover, there can be no assurance that (i) future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose any material environmental liability or (ii) the environmental condition of our properties will not be affected by tenants, by the condition of land or operations in the vicinity of such properties (such as releases from underground storage tanks), or by third parties unrelated to us. 15 Table of Contents Costs of complying with governmental laws and regulations with respect to our properties may adversely affect our income and the cash available for any distributions. All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. Tenants’ ability to operate and to generate income to pay their lease obligations may be affected by permitting and compliance obligations arising under such laws and regulations. Some of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability on tenants, owners or operators for the costs to investigate or remediate contaminated properties, regardless of fault or whether the acts causing the contamination were legal. Leasing our properties to tenants that engage in industrial, manufacturing, and commercial activities will cause us to be subject to the risk of liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. In addition, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to properly remediate these substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell, rent or pledge such property as collateral for future borrowings. Some of these laws and regulations have been amended so as to require compliance with new or more stringent standards as of future dates. Compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations or stricter interpretation of existing laws may require us to incur material expenditures. Future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material environmental liability. Additionally, the operations of the tenants of our properties, the existing condition of the land, operations in the vicinity of such properties, such as the presence of underground storage tanks, or activities of unrelated third parties may affect such properties. In addition, there are various local, state and federal fire, health, life-safety and similar regulations with which we may be required to comply and which may subject us to liability in the form of fines or damages for noncompliance. Any material expenditures, fines or damages we must pay will reduce our ability to make distributions and may reduce the value of our common stock. In addition, changes in these laws and governmental regulations, or their interpretation by agencies or the courts, could occur. The impacts of climate-related initiatives at the U.S. federal and state levels remain uncertain at this time but could result in increased operating costs. Government authorities and various interest groups are promoting laws and regulations that could limit greenhouse gas, or GHG, emissions due to concerns over contributions to climate change. The United States Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, is moving to regulate GHG emissions from large stationary sources, including electricity producers, and mobile sources, through fuel efficiency and other requirements, using its existing authority under the Clean Air Act. Moreover, certain state and regional programs, such as those adopted by California and the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative of various northeastern states, are being implemented to require reductions in GHG emissions. Any additional taxation or regulation of energy use, including as a result of (i) the regulations that EPA has proposed or may propose in the future, (ii) state programs and regulations, or (iii) renewed GHG legislative efforts by future Congresses, could result in increased operating costs that we may not be able to effectively pass on to our tenants. In addition, any increased regulation of GHG emissions could impose substantial costs on our tenants. These costs include, for example, an increase in the cost of the fuel and other energy purchased by our tenants and capital costs associated with updating or replacing their trucks earlier than planned. Any such increased costs could impact the financial condition of our tenants and their ability to meet their lease obligations and to lease or re-lease our properties. We are exposed to the potential impacts of future climate change and climate-change related risks. We may be exposed to potential physical risks from possible future changes in climate. Our properties may be exposed to rare catastrophic weather events, such as severe storms or floods. If the frequency of extreme weather events increases due to climate change, our exposure to these events could increase. Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other similar regulations could result in substantial costs. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act, places of public accommodation must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. If we are required to make unanticipated expenditures to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, including removing access barriers, then our cash flows and the amounts available for distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected. If we are required to make substantial modifications to our properties, whether to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act or other changes in governmental rules and regulations, our financial condition, cash flows, results of operations, the market price of our shares of common stock and preferred stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected. We may be unable to sell a property if or when we decide to do so, including as a result of uncertain market conditions, which could adversely affect the return on an investment in our common stock and our preferred stock. We expect to hold the various real properties in which we invest until such time as we decide that a sale or other disposition is appropriate given our investment objectives. Our ability to dispose of properties on advantageous terms depends on factors beyond 16 Table of Contents our control, including competition from other sellers and the availability of attractive financing for potential buyers of our properties. We cannot predict the various market conditions affecting real estate investments which will exist at any particular time in the future. Due to the uncertainty of market conditions which may affect the future disposition of our properties, we cannot assure our stockholders that we will be able to sell such properties at a profit in the future. Accordingly, the extent to which our stockholders will receive cash distributions and realize potential appreciation on our real estate investments will be dependent upon fluctuating market conditions. Furthermore, we may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure our stockholders that we will have funds available to correct such defects or to make such improvements. In acquiring a property, we may agree to restrictions that prohibit the sale of that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These provisions would restrict our ability to sell a property. If we sell properties and provide financing to purchasers, defaults by the purchasers would adversely affect our cash flows. If we decide to sell any of our properties, we presently intend to sell them for cash. However, if we provide financing to purchasers, we will bear the risk that the purchaser may default, which could negatively impact our cash distributions to stockholders and result in litigation and related expenses. Even in the absence of a purchaser default, the distribution of the proceeds of sales to our stockholders, or their reinvestment in other assets, will be delayed until the promissory notes or other property we may accept upon a sale are actually paid, sold, refinanced or otherwise disposed of. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure Our board of directors may change significant corporate policies without stockholder approval. Our investment, financing, borrowing and distribution policies and our policies with respect to all other activities, including growth, debt, capitalization and operations, will be determined by our board of directors. These policies may be amended or revised at any time and from time to time at the discretion of the board of directors without a vote of our stockholders. In addition, the board of directors may change our policies with respect to conflicts of interest provided that such changes are consistent with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, including the listing standards of the NYSE. A change in these policies could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, per share trading price of our common stock and preferred stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay distributions to our stockholders. We could increase the number of authorized shares of stock and issue stock without stockholder approval. Subject to applicable legal and regulatory requirements, our charter authorizes our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to increase the aggregate number of authorized shares of stock or the number of authorized shares of stock of any class or series, to issue authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of such classified or unclassified shares. Although our board of directors has no such intention at the present time, it could establish a series of preferred stock that could, depending on the terms of such series, delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, may have the effect of inhibiting or deterring a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares, including: • “Business Combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our then outstanding voting shares) or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter may impose special appraisal rights and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and • “Control Share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. 17 Table of Contents We have opted out of these provisions of the MGCL, in the case of the business combination provisions of the MGCL by resolution of our board of directors, and in the case of the control share provisions of the MGCL pursuant to a provision in our bylaws. However, in the future, only upon the approval of our stockholders, our board of directors may by resolution elect to opt in to the business combination provisions of the MGCL and we may, only upon the approval of our stockholders, by amendment to our bylaws, opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL. In addition, the provisions of our charter on removal of directors and the advance notice provisions of our bylaws could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control of our company that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in their best interest. Likewise, if our company’s board of directors were to opt in to the business combination provisions of the MGCL or the provisions of Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL, or if the provision in our bylaws opting out of the control share acquisition provisions of the MGCL were rescinded by our board of directors and our stockholders, these provisions of the MGCL could have similar anti-takeover effects. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited. Maryland law provides that a director or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she satisfies his or her duties to us and our stockholders. Our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or • a final judgment based upon a finding of active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was material to the cause of action adjudicated. In addition, our charter will authorize us to obligate our company, and our bylaws will require us, to indemnify our directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist. Accordingly, in the event that actions taken in good faith by any of our directors or officers impede the performance of our company, your ability to recover damages from such director or officer will be limited. In addition, we may be obligated to advance the defense costs incurred by our directors and executive officers, and may, in the discretion of our board of directors, advance the defense costs incurred by our employees and other agents in connection with legal proceedings. Risks Related to Our Status as a REIT Failure to qualify as a REIT would cause us to be taxed as a regular corporation, which would substantially reduce funds available for distributions to stockholders. We believe that our organization and method of operation has enabled and will continue to enable us to meet the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT. However, we cannot assure you that we will qualify as such. This is because qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code as to which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of facts and circumstances not entirely within our control. Future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws or the application of the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for distributions to our stockholders because: • we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions paid to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and • unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will no longer be required to pay distributions. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and it could adversely affect the value of our common stock. 18 Table of Contents Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flows. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distributions to stockholders. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our liquidity and may force us to borrow funds or sell assets during unfavorable market conditions. In order to maintain our REIT status and to meet the REIT distribution requirements, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis or sell assets, even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings or sales. To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our net taxable income each year, excluding capital gains. In addition, we will be subject to corporate income tax to the extent we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income including any net capital gain. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the requirements of the Code for REITs and to minimize or eliminate our corporate income tax obligation to the extent consistent with our business objectives. Our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to fund required distributions as a result of differences in timing between the actual receipt of income and the recognition of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt service or amortization payments. The insufficiency of our cash flows to cover our distribution requirements could have an adverse impact on our ability to raise short- and long-term debt or sell equity securities in order to fund distributions required to maintain our REIT status. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for reduced tax rates. For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2012, the maximum tax rate for qualified dividends payable to individual U.S. stockholders is (i) 15% if such individual’s modified adjusted gross income is below $400,000 for single individuals, $450,000 for married individuals filing jointly or surviving spouses, $425,000 for heads of households, or $225,000 for married individuals filing separately; or (ii) 20% for all other U.S. individuals. Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates. However, to the extent such dividends are attributable to certain dividends that we receive from a taxable REIT subsidiary, such dividends generally will be eligible for the reduced rates that apply to qualified dividend income. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. We may in the future choose to pay dividends in our stock instead of cash, in which case stockholders may be required to pay income taxes in excess of the cash dividends they receive. Although we have no current intention to do so, we may, in the future, distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash and common stock at the election of each stockholder or distribute other forms of taxable stock dividends. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends or other forms of taxable stock dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, stockholders may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to certain non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. federal income tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities or to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our capital stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego investments we might otherwise make. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our performance. In particular, we must ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified real estate assets. The remainder of our investments in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the total voting power of the outstanding securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% of the value of our total assets can be represented by the securities of one or 19 Table of Contents more taxable REIT subsidiaries, or TRSs. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. Our relationship with any TRS will be limited, and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our REIT qualification and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. While we have no current intention to own any interest in a TRS, we may own any such interest in the future. A TRS may earn income that would not be qualifying income if earned directly by the parent REIT. Overall, no more than 25% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. A domestic TRS will pay federal, state and local income tax at regular corporate rates on any income that it earns. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. Any TRS of ours will pay federal, state and local income tax on its taxable income, and its after-tax net income will be available (but not required) to be distributed to us. We anticipate that the aggregate value of any TRS stock and securities owned by us will be significantly less than 25% of the value of our total assets (including the TRS stock and securities). Furthermore, we will monitor the value of our investments in TRSs for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the rule that no more than 25% of the value of our assets may consist of TRS stock and securities (which is applied at the end of each calendar quarter). In addition, we will scrutinize all of our transactions with TRSs for the purpose of ensuring that they are entered into on arm’s-length terms in order to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. No assurance, however, can be given that we will be able to comply with the 25% limitation on ownership of TRS stock and securities on an ongoing basis so as to maintain our REIT qualification or avoid application of the 100% excise tax imposed on certain non-arm’s-length transactions. The ability of our board of directors to revoke our REIT qualification without stockholder approval may subject us to federal income tax and reduce distributions to our stockholders. Our charter provides that our board of directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to be qualified as a REIT. If we cease to be a REIT, we would become subject to federal income tax on our taxable income and would no longer be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our stockholders, which may have adverse consequences on our total return to our stockholders and on the market price of our common stock. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock and preferred stock. At any time, the federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new federal income tax law, regulation, or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation, or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our stockholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Our Preferred Stock Level of cash distributions, market interest rates and other factors may affect the value of our common stock and our preferred stock. The market value of the equity securities of a REIT is based upon the market’s perception of the REIT’s growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, whether from operations, sales or refinancings, and upon the real estate market value of the underlying assets. Our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share. To the extent we retain operating cash flows for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of our common stock. Our failure to meet the market’s expectations with regard to future earnings and cash distributions likely would adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, the price of our common stock and our preferred stock will be influenced by the dividend yield on the common stock and preferred stock relative to market interest rates and the dividend yields of other REITs. An increase in market interest rates, which are currently at low levels relative to historical rates, could cause the market price of our common stock or our preferred stock to go down. The trading price of the shares of common stock and preferred stock will also depend on many other factors, which may change from time to time, including: • the market for similar securities; 20 Table of Contents • the attractiveness of REIT securities in comparison to the securities of other companies, taking into account, among other things, the higher tax rates imposed on dividends paid by REITs; • government action or regulation; • our issuance of debt or preferred equity securities; • changes in earnings estimates by analysts and our ability to meet analysts’ earnings estimates; • general economic conditions; and • our financial condition, performance and prospects. The number of shares of our common stock available for future sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our preferred stock and have a dilutive effect to our existing stockholders. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock and preferred stock in the public market or the perception that such sales might occur could adversely affect the market price of the shares of our common stock and preferred stock, respectively. The vesting of any restricted stock granted to certain directors, executive officers and other employees under our 2010 Equity Incentive Plan, the issuance of our common stock in connection with property, portfolio or business acquisitions and other issuances of our common stock and preferred stock could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and preferred stock. Future sales of shares of our common stock or preferred stock may be dilutive to existing stockholders. The market price and trading volume of our common stock and preferred stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock and preferred stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock and preferred stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our common stock or preferred stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for such shares. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock or preferred stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock and preferred stock include: • our financial condition, performance, liquidity and prospects; • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or distributions; • changes in our funds from operations (as defined by NAREIT and discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) or earnings; • publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry; • changes in earnings estimates by analysts; • our ability to meet analysts’ earnings estimates; • increases in market interest rates that lead purchasers of our shares to demand a higher yield; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • the market for similar securities issued by REITs; • actions by institutional stockholders; 21 Table of Contents • speculation in the press or investment community; • our compliance with generally accepted accounting principles; • our compliance with applicable laws and regulations and the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange; • the realization of any of the other risk factors presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K; and • general market, including capital market and real estate market, and economic conditions. Future offerings of debt, which would be senior to our common stock and preferred stock upon liquidation, and/or preferred stock which may be senior to our common stock for purposes of dividend distributions or upon liquidation, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock or preferred stock, as applicable . As of December 31, 2012, we had a $100.0 million senior revolving credit facility to finance acquisitions and for working capital requirements with outstanding borrowings of $65.4 million and had total mortgage loans payable of approximately $111.6 million. We have agreed to guarantee the obligations of the borrower (a wholly-owned subsidiary) under our senior revolving credit facility. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock, including our Series A Preferred Stock, and lenders with respect to other borrowings, including our existing mortgage loans payable, will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. In addition, holders of our debt securities and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders and/or reduce the market price of our common stock or our preferred stock. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. Our preferred stock has a preference on liquidating distributions and a preference on dividend payments that could limit our ability to pay a dividend or make another distribution to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock or preferred stock and diluting their stock holdings in us. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations to make distributions to our stockholders at any time in the future. Our ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected by the risk factors described in this Form 10-K. We may not generate sufficient income to make distributions to our stockholders. Our board of directors has the sole discretion to determine the timing, form and amount of any distributions to our stockholders. Our board of directors will make determinations regarding distributions based upon, among other factors, our financial performance, any debt service obligations, any debt covenants, and capital expenditure requirements. Among the factors that could impair our ability to make distributions to our stockholders are: • our inability to realize attractive risk-adjusted returns on our investments; • unanticipated expenses or reduced revenues that reduce our cash flow or non-cash earnings; and • decreases in the value of our industrial properties that we own. As a result, no assurance can be given that we will be able to make distributions to our stockholders at any time in the future or that the level of any distributions we do make to our stockholders will increase or even be maintained over time, any of which could materially and adversely affect the market price of our shares of common stock and preferred stock. Our shares of common stock rank junior to our Series A Preferred Stock. Our shares of common stock rank junior to our Series A Preferred Stock with respect to dividends and upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, which could limit or restrict our ability to make distributions on our common stock. In certain circumstances, following a change of control of our company, holders of our Series A Preferred Stock will be entitled to convert their shares of Series A Preferred Stock into a specified number of shares of common stock, subject to our option to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock for cash at $25.00 per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends. Holders of our shares of common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. We may in the future attempt to increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of equity securities, including additional classes or series of preferred stock, which would likely have preferences with respect to dividends or upon dissolution that are senior to our shares of common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of any future offerings. Thus, our common stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our shares of common stock and diluting their interest in us. 22 Table of Contents The change of control conversion feature of the Series A Preferred Stock may make it more difficult for a party to take over our company or discourage a party from taking over our company. Upon the occurrence of a change of control (as defined in the Articles Supplementary for the Series A Preferred Stock) the result of which our common stock or the common securities of the acquiring or surviving entity are not listed on the NYSE, NYSE Amex or NASDAQ, holders of the Series A Preferred Stock will have the right (unless, prior to the change of control conversion date, we have provided or provide notice of our election to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock) to convert some or all of their Series A Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock (or equivalent value of alternative consideration). Upon such a conversion, the holders will be limited to a maximum number of shares of our common stock equal to the share cap of 3.2446 multiplied by the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock converted. The change of control conversion feature of the Series A Preferred Stock may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for our company or of delaying, deferring or preventing certain change of control transactions of our company under circumstances that stockholders may otherwise believe are in their best interests. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by the requirements of Maryland law. Our ability to pay dividends on our stock is limited by the laws of the State of Maryland. Under applicable Maryland law, a Maryland corporation generally may not make a distribution if, after giving effect to the distribution, the corporation would not be able to pay its debts as the debts become due in the usual course of business, or the corporation’s total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities plus, unless the corporation’s charter provides otherwise, the amount that would be needed, if the corporation were dissolved at the time of the distribution, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of stockholders whose preferential rights are superior to those receiving the distribution. Accordingly, we generally may not make a distribution on our stock if, after giving effect to the distribution, we would not be able to pay our debts as they become due in the usual course of business or our total assets would be less than the sum of our total liabilities plus, unless the terms of such class or series provide otherwise, the amount that would be needed to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of the holders of shares of any class or series of preferred stock then outstanding, if any, with preferences senior to those of our outstanding stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 