Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. We believe the risks described below are the material risks facing the Company. However, the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional unknown risks or risks that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our shares of common stock could decline significantly. Investors should consider the specific risk factors discussed below, and the other information contained or incorporated by reference herein and the other documents that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Risks Relating to Our Business We may need additional funding to meet our capital needs. Such funding may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, and may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. We may need to obtain additional funding for our product development programs and commercialization efforts. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to raise additional funding, if needed, on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we raise additional funds from debt financing, we may be obligated to abide by restrictive covenants contained in the debt financing agreements, which may make it more difficult for us to operate our business. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing shareholders will be reduced, our shareholders may experience additional dilution in net book value, and such equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our existing shareholders. If we are unable to secure additional funding, our ability to continue our product development and commercialization programs would be delayed, reduced or eliminated. We have received an audit report that includes an explanatory paragraph stating that our recurring losses from operations raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern on our fiscal 2012 consolidated financial statements. The continuation of our Company as a going concern is dependent upon our attaining and maintaining profitable operations and/or raising additional capital. Our independent registered public accounting firm included, in their audit report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2012, an explanatory paragraph regarding the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements contain additional note disclosures describing our liquidity. As a result of this uncertainty, we may have a more difficult time obtaining necessary financing. Our success depends in large part on our ability to achieve substantial commercial sales of the Unifill syringe to customers. If we experience problems or delays in securing favorable agreements to supply the Unifill syringe to customers, our business, including our ability to generate significant revenues, will be materially and adversely affected. The Unifill syringe is our primary product and, to date, we have derived substantially all of our revenues from our exclusive licensing and industrialization agreements with Sanofi related to its development. However, we have completed the industrialization program and have executed a supply agreement for the Unifill syringe with one pharmaceutical company, but our ability to generate significant revenues will depend on our ability to negotiate successfully additional supply agreements for the Unifill syringe with Sanofi and/or other pharmaceutical companies and to begin supplying substantial quantities of the product under such agreements. We cannot assure you if or when we will be able to enter into any additional supply agreements for the Unifill syringe or what the terms of any such agreements will be. If we are unable to secure additional supply agreements for the Unifill syringe in a timely manner, our ability to generate significant revenues will be materially and adversely affected. We have recently devoted significant attention and resources towards the development of other injectable drug delivery systems. We cannot give any assurance that we will be able to complete the development and successfully commercialize these systems. A significant element of our strategy focuses on developing a broad portfolio of injectable drug delivery systems that deliver greater benefits to pharmaceutical companies, healthcare workers and patients. These new injectable drug delivery systems are a response to changes in drug technologies, industry standards and the emerging needs of pharmaceutical companies. Other device companies, and pharmaceutical companies, are also attempting to develop alternative therapies or drug administration systems such as needle-free or intradermal injection technology for the treatment or prevention of various diseases. Our success will depend on developing and commercializing new injectable drug delivery systems in order to meet the changing conditions of the marketplace. The development of these injectable drug delivery systems requires significant research and development, clinical evaluations, regulatory approvals and expenditures of capital. The results of our product development efforts may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to innovate, develop and manufacture new products, complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals and secure customer orders for these products. In addition, patents obtained by others can preclude or delay our commercialization of a product. There can be no assurance that any products now in development, or that we may seek to develop in the future, will achieve technological feasibility, obtain regulatory approval or gain market acceptance. The development of new or improved products, processes or technologies by other companies may render our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive. 18 Table of Contents We do not expect to be profitable unless, and until, we achieve commercial scale production and sales of the Unifill syringe and/or generate revenues from other propriety devices. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant R&D expenses related to the development and expansion of our proprietary portfolio of injectable drug delivery systems. We will also incur general and administrative expenses related to increasing our manufacturing operations, expanding our sales and marketing capabilities, seeking regulatory approvals, and complying with the requirements related to being a public company in both the United States and Australia. We will not be profitable until we are successful in achieving commercial scale production and sales of the Unifill syringe and/or are generating revenues from other proprietary devices such as clinical development programs, industrialization programs, commercial supply contracts, or exclusivity or royalty fees. The Unifill syringe has been designed to be compatible with the drug manufacturing systems currently utilized by Sanofi, which may hinder our ability to sell the product to other pharmaceutical customers whose manufacturing processes may not be compatible with our current product designs. The Unifill syringe has been designed to be compatible with the drug filling and packaging systems of Sanofi. To our knowledge, the majority of fill-finish lines are designed and operated in a similar way. However, while the standard glass barrels to be used for the Unifill syringe are also currently utilized by most pharmaceutical companies, the specific processes used by other pharmaceutical companies to fill, manufacture or package prefilled syringes with an injectable drug product may vary from those of Sanofi. Furthermore, pharmaceutical companies may in some cases require the use of materials which are biocompatible with a particular drug compound and to which we do not have access. Such events may require design, material or process changes to our product, or restrict our ability to enter into supply relationships with other pharmaceutical companies and accordingly, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may encounter difficulties managing our growth, which could materially harm our business. We have rapidly expanded our operations, including our research and development, product development, regulatory, manufacturing, sales, marketing and administrative functions. This expansion has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. To manage our growth and to develop and commercialize our products will require continued investment in procedures and systems relating to operational, financial and quality control processes, and continue to expand, train and manage our employee base. In addition, we will need to manage relationships with various manufacturers, suppliers, customers and other organizations. Our failure to accomplish any of these tasks could materially harm our business. We will continue to incur significant costs as a result of being a public company in both the United States and Australia. We are subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Being a public reporting company in the United States entails significant expense, including costs required for us to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, because our shares of common stock are also listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (“ASX”) in the form of CDIs, we are also required to file financial information and make certain other filings with the ASX. Our status as a reporting company in both the United States and Australia makes some activities more time-consuming and costly and causes us to incur legal, accounting and other expenses that are higher than those that are typically incurred by companies that are subject to reporting requirements in only one jurisdiction. 19 Table of Contents Our manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing facilities of our suppliers must comply with applicable regulatory requirements. If we or they fail to achieve or maintain regulatory approval for these manufacturing facilities, our business and our results of operations would be harmed. Commercialization of our products requires access to, or the development of, manufacturing facilities that meet applicable regulatory standards to manufacture a sufficient supply of our products. In addition, the FDA must approve facilities that manufacture our products for US commercial purposes, as well as the manufacturing processes and specifications for the product. Suppliers of components of, and products used to manufacture, our products must also comply with FDA and foreign regulatory requirements, which often require significant time, money and record-keeping and quality assurance efforts and subject us and our suppliers to potential regulatory inspections and stoppages. We and our suppliers may not satisfy these requirements. If we or our suppliers do not achieve or maintain required regulatory approval for our manufacturing operations, our commercialization efforts could be delayed, which would harm our business and our results of operations. If we experience interruptions in our manufacturing operations, our business will suffer. We currently manufacture our products at our York, Pennsylvania facility, with no alternate facilities available. If we were to experience a manufacturing disruption as a result of damage or destruction of the building, equipment failure, acts of God or other force majeure events, our ability to satisfy our obligations to our customers would be adversely affected, which would harm our business and our results of operations. The costs of raw materials have a significant impact on the level of expenses that we incur. If the prices of raw materials and related factors such as energy prices increase, and we cannot pass those price increases on to our customers, our results of operations and financial condition would suffer. We use a number of raw materials including polymer plastics. The prices of many of these raw materials, such as those sourced from petroleum-based raw materials, are cyclical and volatile. While we would generally attempt to pass along increased costs to our customers in the form of sales price increases, we might not be able to do so, for competitive or contract-related reasons or otherwise. If we could not set our prices to reflect the costs of our raw materials, our results of operations and our financial condition would suffer. Disruptions in the supply of key raw materials and difficulties in the supplier qualification process could adversely impact our operations. We employ a supply chain management strategy which seeks to source components and materials from a number of established third party companies. Where possible, we seek to establish dual contracts for the supply of particular components or services. However, there is a risk that our supply lines may be interrupted in the event of a supplier production problem, material recall or financial difficulties. If one of our suppliers is unable to supply materials required for production of our products or our strategies for managing these risks are unsuccessful, we may be unable to complete the production of sufficient quantities of product to fulfill customer orders, or complete the qualification of new replacement materials for some programs in time to meet future production requirements. Prolonged disruptions in the supply of any of our key raw materials, difficulty in completing qualification of new sources of supply, or in implementing the use of replacement materials or new sources of supply, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, our financial condition or cash flows. Some companies we may utilize for the supply of components are also competitors, and they could elect to cease supply relationships with us in the future for competitive reasons. Some companies we may utilize for the supply of components for the Unifill syringe also develop and market their own safety products which can be attached onto standard prefilled syringes. These companies may elect to cease supply relationships with us in the future for competitive reasons. This may disrupt our supply chain, cause difficulties in the qualification of new sources of supply and impair our ability to supply customer orders. Such events may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, our financial condition and/or cash flows. The medical device industry is very competitive. Competition in the medical device industry is intense. We face this competition from a wide range of companies. These include large medical device companies, most of which have greater financial and human resources, distribution channels and sales and marketing capabilities than we do. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to distinguish our company and our products from our competitors and their products. Factors affecting our competitive position include, for example, product design and performance, product safety, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, success and timing of new product development and introductions and intellectual property protection. 20 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive regulation by governments around the world, and if these regulations are not complied with, existing and future operations may be curtailed, and we could be subject to liability. The design, development, manufacturing, marketing and labeling of our products are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States, Europe and other countries, including the FDA. Our products must receive clearance or approval from the FDA or its non-U.S. counterparts before they can be marketed or sold. The regulatory process can result in required modification or withdrawal of existing products and a substantial delay in the introduction of new products. Also, it is possible that regulatory approval may not be obtained for a new product. Our business may be adversely affected by changes in the regulation of drug products and medical devices. The process for obtaining marketing approval or clearance may take a significant period of time and require the expenditure of substantial resources. The process may also require changes to our products or result in limitations on the indicated uses of the products. As a result, our expectations with respect to marketing approval or clearance may prove to be inaccurate and we may not be able to obtain marketing approval or clearance in a timely manner or at all. In addition, regulatory requirements outside the U.S. change frequently, requiring prompt action to maintain compliance, particularly when product modifications are required. Following the introduction of a product, these agencies also periodically review our manufacturing processes and product performance. Our failure to comply with the applicable good manufacturing practices, adverse event reporting, clinical trial and other requirements of these agencies could delay or prevent the production, marketing or sale of our products and result in fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory clearances, closure of manufacturing sites, seizures or recalls of products and damage to our reputation. Our target pharmaceutical customers are also subject to government regulations for the manufacturing, approval, marketing and labeling of therapeutic drug products. An effect of the governmental regulation of our customers’ drug products and manufacturing processes is that compliance with regulations makes it costly and time consuming to transition to the use of our devices for existing products, or to secure approval for pipeline products targeted for use with our devices. If regulation of our customers’ products incorporating our devices increases over time, it is likely that this would adversely affect our sales and profitability. The FDA 510(k) clearance or premarket approval processes may impact our ability to market and sell our products. Before a new medical device, or a significant change involving a new use of or claim for an existing medical device, can be distributed commercially in the United States, it must receive either 510(k) clearance or premarket approval from the FDA, unless an exemption exists. Either process can be expensive and lengthy. We have previously received 510(k) clearances for proprietary devices by a contractor outside the United States as well as at our Pennsylvania manufacturing facility. Our Unifill syringe does not require 510(k) clearance because it will be sold to drug manufacturers for use as drug packaging. The FDA may, however, revise existing regulations or adopt additional regulations, each of which could prevent or delay 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of our new or modified devices, or could impact our ability to market our currently cleared devices. The FDA, for example, has recently announced its intention to review the 510(k) process and consider enhancements that could impact future 510(k) submissions. It has also encouraged manufacturers to consult with the FDA as to the appropriate 510(k) clearance process for any new product. Such changes could result in additional scrutiny by the FDA of 510(k) applications that we will submit for our new or modified devices and could result in delays and increased costs in obtaining FDA clearances, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also may be required to obtain either 510(k) clearance or premarket approval from the FDA for some of our new injectable drug delivery systems. Obtaining such FDA clearances could result in delays in bringing these new injectable drug delivery systems to market and could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may face significant uncertainty in the industry due to government healthcare reform. The healthcare industry in the United States is subject to fundamental changes due to the ongoing healthcare reform and the political, economic and regulatory influences. In March 2010, comprehensive healthcare reform legislation was signed into law in the United States through the passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act. Among other initiatives, the legislation provides for a 2.3% annual excise tax on the sales of certain medical devices in the United States, commencing in January 2013. This enacted excise tax may adversely affect our operating expenses and results of operations. In addition, various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. We cannot predict with certainty what healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the state level, or what ultimate effect of federal healthcare reform or any future legislation or regulation may have on us or on our customers’ purchasing decisions regarding our products and services. 21 Table of Contents Product defects could adversely affect the results of our operations. The design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices involve certain inherent risks. Manufacturing or design defects, unanticipated use of our products, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of the product can lead to injury or other adverse events. These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products (either voluntary or required by the FDA or similar governmental authorities in other countries), and could result, in certain cases, in the removal of a product from the market. Any recall could result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products. Personal injuries relating to the use of our products can also result in product liability claims being brought against us. In some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in new product approvals. We may be sued for product liability, which could adversely affect our business. The design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices carries a significant risk of product liability claims. We may be held liable if any product we develop and commercialize causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale or consumer use. In addition, the safety studies we must perform and the regulatory approvals required to commercialize our medical safety products will not protect us from any such liability. We carry product liability insurance. However, if there were to be product liability claims against us, our insurance may be insufficient to cover the expense of defending against such claims, or may be insufficient to pay or settle such claims. Furthermore, we may be unable to obtain adequate product liability insurance coverage for commercial sales of any of our approved products. If such insurance is insufficient to protect us, our results of operations will suffer. If any product liability claim is made against us, our reputation and future sales will be damaged, even if we have adequate insurance coverage. We also intend to seek product liability insurance for any approved products that we may develop or acquire in the future. There is no guarantee that such coverage will be available when we seek it or at a reasonable cost to us. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights or may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection in the United States and other countries of the intellectual property relating to or incorporated into our technology and products. Our issued patents expire at various dates between 2018 and 2030. Our pending and future patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will provide us with any competitive advantage or adequate protection. In particular, the injectable drug delivery systems which we are developing and for which we have filed patent applications are relatively new inventions, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain patents on these inventions. Our issued and future patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of terms of patent protection we may have for our products. Changes in patent laws or their interpretation in the United States and other countries could also diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. In addition, the legal systems of certain countries do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents, and the laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. As a result, our patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours. In order to preserve and enforce our patent and other intellectual property rights, we may need to make claims or file lawsuits against third parties. This can entail significant costs to us and divert our management’s attention from developing and commercializing our products. There also can be no assurance that third parties will not assert that our products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or require us to pay substantial damages. If we are unsuccessful in defending ourselves against these types of claims, we may be required to do one or more of the following: • stop, delay or abandon our ongoing or planned commercialization of the product that is the subject of the suit; • attempt to obtain a license to sell or use the relevant technology or substitute technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; • redesign those products that use the relevant technology; or • pay substantial damages which could adversely impact our financial condition and ability to execute our business plan and operations. 22 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. In addition to patented technology, we rely on our unpatented proprietary technology, trade secrets, processes and know-how. We generally seek to protect this information by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors and third parties. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. Impairment of our goodwill, which represents a significant portion of our total assets, would adversely affect our operating results and we may never realize the full value of our goodwill. As of June 30, 2012, we had $12.7 million of goodwill on our balance sheet, which represented 15% of our total assets. We recorded this goodwill primarily from our historical acquisition activities. Goodwill is subject to, at a minimum, an annual impairment assessment of its carrying value. Any material impairment of our goodwill would likely have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates can affect the value of our assets and liabilities, and the amount of our revenues and expenses. We do not currently try to mitigate our exposure to currency exchange rate risks by using hedging transactions. We cannot predict future changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and as a result, we may suffer losses as a result of future fluctuations. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel and the loss of them could adversely affect our business. Our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly Mr. Alan Shortall, our Chief Executive Officer, and Dr. Ramin Mojdeh, our Chief Operating Officer, to provide strategic direction, manage our operations and maintain a cohesive and stable environment. Although we have employment agreements with Mr. Shortall and Dr. Mojdeh, as well as incentive compensation plans that provide various economic incentives for them to remain with us, these agreements and incentives may not be sufficient to retain them. Our ability to operate successfully and manage our potential future growth also depends significantly upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled and qualified research, technical, clinical, regulatory, sales, marketing, managerial and financial personnel. We face intense competition for such personnel, and we may not be able to attract, retain and motivate these individuals. The loss of our executive officers or other key personnel for any reason or our inability to hire, retain and motivate additional qualified personnel in the future could prevent us from sustaining or growing our business. Risk Factors Related to Our Shares of Common Stock The trading price of our shares of common stock may fluctuate significantly. The price of our shares of common stock may be volatile, which means that it could decline substantially within a short period of time. The trading price of the shares may fluctuate, and investors may experience a decrease in the value of the shares that they hold, sometimes regardless of our operating performance or prospects. The trading price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including the following: • future announcements concerning our business and that of our competitors including in particular, the progress of our commercial sales for the Unifill syringe and the development programs for the other injectable drug delivery systems; • regulatory developments, enforcement actions bearing on advertising, marketing or sales of our current or pipeline products; • quarterly variations in operating results; • introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; • acquisition or loss of significant customers, distributors or suppliers; • business acquisitions or divestitures; • changes in third party reimbursement practices; • fluctuations of investor interest in the medical device sector; and • fluctuations in the economy, world political events or general market conditions. 23 Table of Contents If there are substantial sales of our shares of common stock, our share price could decline. As of September 5, 2012, we had 81,856,079 shares of common stock outstanding. All of those shares of common stock other than 7,894,391 shares held by our affiliates are freely tradable under the Securities Act. Shares held by our affiliates are eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144. As of June 30, 2012, approximately 35% of our common stock outstanding was held by U.S. institutions. Of the 79 registered institutional holders at that time, seven had disclosed holdings of between one million and 5.6 million shares of common stock each. We also had a declared short interest in our common stock of 9.7 million shares as of July 31, 2012. If our stockholders sell a large number of shares of common stock, or the short interest position increases significantly, the market may perceive that our stockholders might sell a large number of shares, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly. In addition, as of September 5, 2012, 12,962,592 shares of our common stock are subject to outstanding stock options and warrants. We have registered the shares issuable upon the exercise of options granted under our 2009 Stock Incentive Plan. In addition, we have effective registration statements covering the resale of shares of our common stock that are issuable upon the exercise of our remaining options and warrants. If these options and warrants are exercised and the holders choose to sell their shares, such sales could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. For the foreseeable future, we do not intend to declare or pay any dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain our earnings, if any, to finance the development and expansion of our business and product lines. Any future decision to declare or pay dividends will be made by our board of directors and will depend upon a number of factors including our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, under our current bank financing agreements, we are not permitted to pay cash dividends without the prior written consent of the lender. We may be subject to arbitrage risks. Investors may seek to profit by exploiting the difference, if any, in the price of our shares of common stock on the NASDAQ and our CDIs on the ASX. Such arbitrage activities could cause our stock price in the market with the higher value to decrease to the price set by the market with the lower value. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, the Delaware General Corporation Law and the terms of our industrialization agreement with Sanofi may delay or deter a change of control transaction. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of deterring takeovers, such as those provisions authorizing our board of directors to issue, from time to time, any series of preferred stock and fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of such series of preferred stock; prohibiting stockholders from acting by written consent in lieu of a meeting; requiring advance notice of stockholder intention to put forth director nominees or bring up other business at a stockholders’ meeting; prohibiting stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; requiring a 66 2/3% majority stockholder approval in order for stockholders to amend our bylaws or adopt new bylaws; and providing that, subject to the rights of preferred shares, the number of directors is to be fixed exclusively by our board of directors. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, from which we did not elect to opt out, provides that if a holder acquires 15% or more of our stock without prior approval of our board of directors, that holder will be subject to certain restrictions on its ability to acquire us within three years. In addition, our industrialization agreement with Sanofi provides to Sanofi the right to match a change of control proposal and to terminate the industrialization agreement under certain circumstances of a change of control event. See “Business — Commercial Relationships — Sanofi.” These provisions may delay or deter a change of control of us, and could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 24 Table of Contents 