Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Crumbs’ Business and Industry If Crumbs is unable to achieve its growth strategy, its business could be materially and adversely affected. Crumbs’ growth strategy depends on its ability to open new stores on a timely and profitable basis. Crumbs has experienced delays in store openings from time to time. Crumbs may experience delays in the future, and there can be no assurance that Crumbs will be able to achieve its expansion goals in the future. Any inability to implement Crumbs’ growth strategy could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Crumbs’ ability to expand successfully will depend on a number of factors, some of which are beyond its control. Crumbs may also, from time to time, choose to alter its stated growth plans based on any or all of the following factors: • identification and availability of suitable store sites; • competition for prime real estate sites; • negotiation of favorable leases; • management of construction and development costs of new stores; • securing required governmental approvals and permits; • recruitment of qualified operating personnel; • the availability of, and Crumbs’ ability to obtain, adequate suppliers of ingredients that meet its quality standards; • the impact of inclement weather, natural disasters and other calamities; • competition in new and existing markets; and • general economic conditions. Any inability to manage Crumbs’ growth effectively could materially and adversely affect its operating results and cause its future results to be unpredictable. Crumbs has grown significantly since its inception. Its existing store management systems, financial and management controls and information systems may not be adequate to support its planned expansion. Crumbs’ ability to manage its growth effectively will require it to continue to enhance these systems, procedures and controls and to locate, hire, train and retain operating personnel. 9 Additionally, Crumbs’ growth strategy and the substantial investment associated with the development of each new store may cause Crumbs’ operating results to fluctuate and be unpredictable or adversely affect its profits. There can be no assurance that Crumbs will be able to respond on a timely basis to all of the changing demands that its planned expansion will impose on management and on its existing infrastructure. If Crumbs is unable to manage its growth effectively, its business and operating results could be materially and adversely impacted and its future results will be unpredictable. Crumbs’ expansion into new markets may present increased risks due to its unfamiliarity with those areas. Some of Crumbs’ new stores are planned for markets where it has little or no operating experience. Those markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than its existing markets. Consumers in a new market may not be familiar with the Crumbs brand, and Crumbs may need to build brand awareness in such market through greater investments in advertising and promotional activity than it originally planned. Crumbs may find it more difficult in new markets to hire, motivate and keep qualified employees. Stores opened in new markets may also have lower average store revenue than stores opened in existing markets, and may have higher construction, occupancy or operating costs than stores in existing markets. Further, Crumbs may have difficulty in finding reliable commercial bakers, suppliers or distributors that can provide it, either initially or over time, with adequate supplies of ingredients meeting its quality standards. Revenue at stores opened in new markets may not reach expected revenue and profit levels, negatively impacting overall profitability. CBS securityholders should not rely on average store sales experienced by Crumbs in the past because they may not be indicative of future results. Crumbs’ average store sales may not continue at the rates achieved over the past several years. A number of factors have historically affected, and may affect in the future, Crumbs’ average store sales, including: • introduction of new menu items; • initial sales performance by new stores and the impact of cannibalization; • weather conditions; • competition; • consumer trends; • Crumbs’ ability to execute its business strategy effectively; and • general regional and national economic conditions. Changes in Crumbs’ average store sales or Crumbs’ inability to increase its average unit sales could cause its operating results to vary adversely from expectations, which could adversely affect its results of operations. Changes in Crumbs’ average sales results may not meet the expectations of analysts or investors which could cause the price of CBS common stock to fluctuate. Crumbs has a limited operating history and Crumbs may be unable to achieve or maintain profitability. The first Crumbs store was opened in 2003. As of December 31, 2011, Crumbs was operating 48 stores, 15 of which had been open for less than one year. Accordingly, there is limited information with which to evaluate Crumbs’ business and prospects. As a result, forecasts of Crumbs’ future revenue, expenses and operating results may not be as accurate as they would be if Crumbs had a longer history of operations. Crumbs cannot predict whether it will be able to achieve or maintain revenue growth, profitability or positive cash flow in the future. 10 Crumbs’ revenue and profit growth could be adversely affected if comparable store revenue is less than expected. Maintaining comparable store revenue enables fixed costs to be spread over a consistent revenue base. Crumbs may not achieve comparable store revenue. If this were to happen, revenue and profit growth would be adversely affected. Crumbs’ store expansion strategy includes further penetration of existing markets. This strategy can cause sales in some of Crumbs’ existing stores to decline. In accordance with Crumbs’ expansion strategy, Crumbs intends to open new stores, including in Crumbs’ existing markets. Since Crumbs’ customers typically represent customers from a relatively small radius around each of its stores, the sales performance and customer counts for stores near the area in which a new store opens may decline due to cannibalization, or competition between its closely-situated stores. As Crumbs expands its store base, it may be unable to achieve the comparable store sales that it has in the past, which could cause CBS’ stock price to decline. As Crumbs expands its store base, it may not be able to achieve the levels of comparable store sales that it experienced prior to its expansion efforts. In addition, Crumbs may not be able to maintain its historic average sales as it expands within current markets or moves into new markets. If Crumbs’ future comparable store sales decline or fail to meet market expectations, the price of CBS common stock could decline. In addition, the aggregate results of operations of its stores have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. A variety of factors affect comparable store sales, including, among others, consumer trends, competition, current economic conditions, pricing, inflation, changes in its product mix and the success of marketing programs. If Crumbs misjudges the market for its products, it may acquire excess inventory for some of its products and underestimate opportunities for other products. These factors may cause its comparable store sales results in the future to differ materially from previous periods and its expectations, which could harm its results of operations and result in a decline in the price of CBS common stock. Crumbs has grown rapidly in recent years and it has limited operating experience at its current scale of operations; if Crumbs is unable to manage its operations at its current size or unable to manage any future growth effectively, its brand image and financial performance may suffer. Crumbs has expanded its operations rapidly. If its operations continue to grow, Crumbs will be required to continue to expand its organization, to upgrade its management information systems and other processes and to obtain more space for its expanding administrative support and other headquarter personnel. Crumbs could experience difficulties in hiring, training and managing an increasing number of employees, difficulties in obtaining sufficient raw materials and baking capacity to produce its products. These difficulties could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and operating results. The geographic concentration of Crumbs’ stores in the Northeast region of the United States subjects it to an increased risk of loss of revenue from facts affecting those areas. As of December 31, 2011, Crumbs operated 33 of its 48 stores in the Northeast, of which 20 are located in Manhattan, New York. As a result, Crumbs is particularly susceptible to adverse trends, severe weather, competition and economic conditions in that area. In addition, given Crumbs’ geographic concentration, negative publicity regarding any of its stores could have a material adverse effect on its business and operations, as could other regional factors impacting the local economies in that market. Crumbs is subject to all of the risks associated with leasing space subject to long-term non-cancelable leases and with respect to the real property. Crumbs competes for real estate, and Crumbs’ inability to secure real estate in desirable locations or on favorable lease terms could impact Crumbs’ ability to grow. Crumbs’ leases generally have initial terms of between 11 10 and 15 years, and generally can be extended in up to five-year increments (at increased rates) if at all. Additionally, in certain instances, there may be change in control provisions in the lease which put Crumbs in a competitive disadvantage when negotiating extensions or which require Crumbs to get landlord consent for certain transactions. All of its leases require a fixed annual rent, although some require the payment of additional rent if store revenue exceeds a negotiated amount. Crumbs’ leases include “net” leases, which require it to pay a proportionate share of the cost of insurance, taxes, maintenance and utilities. Crumbs generally cannot cancel these leases. Some additional sites that Crumbs may lease are likely to be subject to similar long-term non-cancelable leases. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and Crumbs decides to close a particular store, it may nonetheless be committed to perform its obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. In addition, as each of its leases expires, Crumbs may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause it to close stores in desirable locations. Current locations of Crumbs’ stores may become unattractive as demographic patterns change. Crumbs may face difficulties entering into new or modified arrangements with existing or new suppliers or new service providers. As Crumbs expands its operations, it may have to seek new commercial bakers, suppliers and service providers or enter into new arrangements with existing ones, and it may encounter difficulties or be unable to negotiate pricing or other terms as favorable as those it currently enjoys. Crumbs’ inability to enter into such new agreements on favorable terms may harm its business and operating results. Crumbs may not be able to protect its intellectual property adequately, which could harm the value of its brand and adversely affect its business. Crumbs’ intellectual property is material to the conduct of its business. Crumbs’ ability to implement its business plan successfully depends in part on its ability to build further brand recognition using its trademarks, service marks and other proprietary intellectual property, including its name and logos. Crumbs has registered its trademarks in the United States, the European Community and Japan; however, if Crumbs’ efforts to protect its intellectual property are inadequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on its intellectual property, the value of its brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on its business and might prevent its brands from achieving or maintaining market acceptance. While Crumbs has not encountered claims from prior users of intellectual property relating to its bake shop operations in areas where it operates or intends to conduct operations, there can be no assurances that it will not encounter such claims. If so, this could harm Crumbs’ image, brand or competitive position and cause it to incur significant penalties and costs. Crumbs’ results may fluctuate and could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors due to various factors beyond its control, resulting in a decline in the market prices of the Registrant’s securities. Crumbs’ quarterly and yearly results have varied in the past, and Crumbs believes that its quarterly operating results will vary in the future. Factors such as extreme weather conditions, labor availability and wages of store management and employees, infrastructure costs, changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending, general economic conditions, commodity, energy, insurance or other operating costs may cause Crumbs’ quarterly results to fluctuate. For these reasons, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year. Holders of the Registrant’s securities should not rely upon Crumbs’ historical quarterly operating results as indications of future performance. Changes in its operating results, whether due to the foregoing factors or otherwise, could cause the market prices of the Registrant’s securities to decline. Crumbs may need additional capital in the future and it may not be available on acceptable terms. The development of Crumbs’ business may require significant additional capital in the future to, among other things, fund its operations, expand the range of products Crumbs offers and finance future acquisitions and investments. To meet its capital needs, Crumbs expects to rely on its cash flow from operations and cash generated from the Merger. There can be no assurance, however, that these sources of financing or alternative sources will be available on terms favorable to Crumbs, or at all. Crumbs’ ability to obtain additional financing will be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions, its operating performance and investor sentiment. These factors may 12 make the timing, amount, terms and conditions of additional financings unattractive to Crumbs. If Crumbs is unable to raise additional capital, its growth and its business could be impeded. Crumbs’ success depends substantially upon the continued retention of certain key personnel. Crumbs believes that its success has been dependent and continues to be dependent to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of its senior management team. Certain members of its management team currently are employed on an “at-will” basis and may resign from employment at any time. Each of Julian R. Geiger, the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer, Jason Bauer, its Senior Vice-President of Business Development, Mia Bauer, its Vice-President and Creative Director, and John D. Ireland, its Senior Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer, have entered into employment agreements with CBS and Holdings. Crumbs’ failure to retain any of these individuals could adversely affect its ability to build on the efforts they have undertaken with respect to the Crumbs business. CBS will incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, CBS incurs significant legal, accounting and other expenses. The U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 and related rules of the SEC, regulate corporate governance practices of public companies. Compliance with these public company requirements increases its costs and makes some activities more time-consuming. In addition, CBS incurs additional expenses associated with its SEC reporting requirements. A number of those requirements require CBS to carry out activities it had not done previously. For example, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, CBS needs to document and test its internal control procedures, and its management needs to assess and report on CBS’ internal control over financial reporting. Furthermore, if CBS identifies any issues in complying with those requirements (for example, if CBS or its independent registered public accounting firm identifies a material weakness or significant deficiency in Crumbs’ internal control over financial reporting), CBS could incur additional costs rectifying those issues, and the existence of those issues could adversely affect CBS’ reputation or investor perceptions of CBS. The terms of the director and officer liability insurance maintained by CBS may not be sufficient to attract and retain directors. As a result, it may be more difficult for CBS to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on its board of directors or as executive officers. Advocacy efforts by stockholders and third parties may also prompt changes in governance and reporting requirements. CBS cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs CBS may incur or the timing of such costs. Crumbs’ business is affected by changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending. Crumbs’ success depends, in part, upon the popularity of its food products and its ability to develop new menu items that appeal to consumers. Shifts in consumer preferences away from Crumbs’ stores or its menu items, Crumbs’ inability to develop new menu items that appeal to consumers, or changes in Crumbs’ menu that eliminate items popular with some consumers could harm its business. Also, Crumbs’ success depends to a significant extent on discretionary consumer spending, which is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. Accordingly, Crumbs may experience declines in sales during economic downturns or during periods of uncertainty. Any material decline in the amount of discretionary spending could have a material adverse effect on Crumbs’ sales, results of operations, business and financial condition. Crumbs’ success depends on its ability to compete with cupcake specific bakeries, traditional bakeries and other food service businesses. The industry in which Crumbs operates is intensely competitive and Crumbs competes with many well-established traditional bakeries, cupcake-specific bakeries and other companies providing baked goods and coffee, on the basis of taste, quality and price of products offered, customer service, atmosphere, location, convenience and overall customer experience. Crumbs also competes with certain quick-services restaurants, delicatessens, cafés, take-out food service companies, supermarkets and convenience stores that offer the same types of baked goods. Aggressive discounts by Crumbs’ competitors or the entrance of new competitors into Crumbs’ markets could reduce its sales and profit margins. Crumbs also competes with these competitors for desirable locations. 13 Many of Crumbs’ competitors or potential competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than Crumbs, which may allow them to compete more effectively than Crumbs with respect to some or all of the factors set forth in the preceding paragraph. As Crumbs’ competitors expand their operations, Crumbs expects competition to intensify. In addition, other new or established companies may develop baked goods stores that operate with concepts similar to Crumbs’, including the sale of gourmet cupcakes. Competition also could cause Crumbs to modify or evolve its products, designs or strategies. If Crumbs does so, Crumbs cannot guarantee that it will be successful in implementing the changes or that Crumbs’ profitability will not be negatively impacted by them. Crumbs also competes with other employers in its markets for hourly workers and may be subject to higher labor costs. If Crumbs is unable to successfully compete in its markets, Crumbs may be unable to sustain or increase its revenues and profitability. Crumbs is dependent upon a small number of independent commercial bakeries for a significant amount of its menu items. The loss of any supplier, other disruptions to Crumbs’ supply chain, and/or Crumbs’ inability to predict demand could adversely affect Crumbs’ operating results. Crumbs currently relies on four independent commercial bakeries for the manufacture and daily delivery of its baked goods products. As of December 31, 2011, Crumbs had agreements with four commercial bakeries, one for each of the New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and Washington, D.C. area markets. Accordingly, Crumbs is particularly susceptible to risks related to these suppliers, including their continued ability to maintain sufficient production of baked goods, to produce baked goods that meet Crumbs’ quality standards, and the risk of delivery disruptions that could arise due to a number of factors including adverse weather, traffic conditions and mechanical issues related to their delivery trucks. Crumbs’ dependence on frequent deliveries to its stores by regional distributors could cause shortages, supply interruptions and/or the need to quickly seek alternative suppliers at higher prices, all of which could adversely impact its operations. Additionally, because none of Crumbs’ stores bake the baked goods they sell, each Crumbs store is required to estimate and order sufficient inventory for each day. If stores are unable to predict the demand accurately, Crumbs’ profitability and operating results may be adversely affected. There are many factors which could cause shortages or interruptions in the supply of Crumbs’ products, including weather, unanticipated demand, labor, production or distribution problems, quality issues and cost, and the financial health of Crumbs’ suppliers, most of which are beyond Crumbs’ control, and which could have an adverse effect on Crumbs’ business and results of operations. Crumbs’ industry is affected by litigation and publicity concerning food quality, health and other issues, which can cause customers to avoid Crumbs’ products and result in liabilities. Food service businesses, such as bakeries, can be adversely affected by litigation and complaints from customers or government authorities resulting from food quality, illness, injury or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one store or a limited number of stores. Adverse publicity about these allegations may negatively affect Crumbs, regardless of whether the allegations are true, by discouraging customers from buying Crumbs’ products. Crumbs could also incur significant liabilities if a lawsuit or claim results in a decision against Crumbs or litigation costs regardless of the result. Crumbs’ business could be adversely affected by increased labor costs or labor shortages. Labor is a primary component in the cost of operating Crumbs’ business. Crumbs devotes significant resources to recruiting and training its managers and hourly employees. Increased labor costs due to competition, increased minimum wage or employee benefits costs or otherwise, would adversely impact Crumbs’ operating expenses. In addition, Crumbs’ success depends on its ability to attract, motivate and retain qualified employees, including store managers and staff, to keep pace with Crumbs’ growth strategy. If Crumbs is unable to attract, motivate and retain qualified employees, its results of operations may be adversely affected. 14 Fluctuations in various food and supply costs, including dairy, could adversely affect Crumbs’ operating results. The prices of butter, flour, milk, sugar and eggs, which are the main ingredients in Crumbs’ baked goods, and coffee, may fluctuate. Supplies and prices of the various products that are used to prepare Crumbs’ baked goods or coffee can be affected by a variety of factors, such as weather, seasonal fluctuations, demand, politics and economics in the producing countries. An increase in pricing of any ingredient that is used in Crumbs’ baked goods could result in an adjustment to the compensation due to suppliers, and Crumbs may not be able to increase prices to cover increased costs which would have an adverse effect on Crumbs’ operating results and profitability. Crumbs could be party to litigation that could adversely affect it by distracting management, increasing its expenses or subjecting it to material money damages and other remedies. Crumbs may be subject to the filing of complaints or lawsuits against it alleging that it is responsible for some illness or injury suffered at or after a visit to its stores, or alleging that Crumbs has problems with food quality or operations. Crumbs is also subject to a variety of other claims arising in the ordinary course of its business, including personal injury claims, contract claims and claims alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters, and it could become subject to class action or other lawsuits related to these or different matters in the future. Claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from Crumbs’ operations and hurt its performance. A judgment in excess of Crumbs’ insurance coverage or its insurance carriers’ decision to deny or limit insurance coverage for any claims could materially and adversely affect Crumbs’ financial condition or results of operations. Any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also materially and adversely affect Crumbs’ reputation or prospects, which in turn could adversely affect its results of operations and profitability. If Crumbs fails to comply with governmental laws or regulations or if these laws or regulations change, its business could suffer. In connection with the operation of Crumbs’ business, it is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to: • building construction and zoning requirements; • nutritional content labeling and disclosure requirements; • management and protection of the personal data of Crumbs’ employees and customers; • environmental matters; and • sales tax. Crumbs’ stores are licensed and subject to regulation under federal, state and local laws, including business, health, fire and safety codes. Various federal and state labor laws govern Crumbs’ operations and its relationship with its employees, including minimum wage, overtime, and accommodation and working conditions, benefits, citizenship requirements, insurance matters, workers’ compensation, disability laws such as the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act, child labor laws and anti-discrimination laws. These labor laws are complex and vary from location to location, which complicates monitoring and compliance. As a result, regulatory risks are inherent in Crumbs’ operations. Crumbs may experience material difficulties or failures with respect to compliance with these labor laws in the future. Crumbs’ failure to comply with these labor laws could result in required renovations to its facilities, litigation, fines, penalties, judgments or other sanctions including the temporary suspension of the operation of Crumbs’ stores or a delay in construction or opening of stores, any of which could adversely affect Crumbs’ business, operations and reputation. In recent years, there has been an increased legislative, regulatory and consumer focus at the federal, state and municipal levels on the food industry, including nutrition and advertising practices. For example, several states 15 and individual municipalities, including New York City and the state of California, have adopted regulations requiring that certain restaurants include caloric or other nutritional information on their menu boards and on printed menus, which must be plainly visible to consumers at the point of ordering. Likewise, there have been several similar proposals on the national level. As a result, Crumbs may in the future become subject to other regulations in the area of nutrition disclosure or advertising, such as requirements to provide information about the nutritional content of Crumbs’ food, which could increase its expenses or slow customer flow. The continuing challenging economic conditions could adversely affect Crumbs’ business and financial results and have a material adverse effect on its liquidity and capital resources. As widely reported, the U.S. economy continues to experience adverse economic conditions and uncertainty about economic stability. While there are signs that conditions may be improving, there is no certainty that this trend will continue or that credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions will not deteriorate again. Crumbs’ customers may make fewer discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, reduced access to credit and falling home prices. Because a key point in Crumbs’ business strategy is maintaining its transaction count and margin growth, any significant decrease in customer traffic or average profit per transaction will negatively impact Crumbs’ financial performance as reduced revenue creates downward pressure on margins. Financial difficulties experienced by Crumbs’ suppliers could result in product delays or shortages. Additionally, it is unknown when the broader national economy will fully recover. An economy that continues to deteriorate or fails to improve could have a material adverse effect on Crumbs’ liquidity and capital resources, including its ability to raise additional capital if needed, the ability of its financial institutions to honor draws on Crumbs’ standby letters of credit, or otherwise negatively impact Crumbs’ business and financial results. Crumbs may also incur costs resulting from other security risks it may face in connection with its electronic processing and transmission of confidential customer information. Crumbs uses commercially available software and other technologies to provide security for processing and transmission of customer debit and credit card data. As of December 31, 2011 approximately 62% of Crumbs’ current revenue is attributable to debit and credit card transactions. Crumbs’ systems could be compromised in the future, which could result in the misappropriation of customer information or the disruption of systems. Either of those consequences could have a material adverse effect on Crumbs’ reputation and business or subject it to additional liabilities. Risks Related to an Investment in CBS Securities CBS is a holding company and relies on dividends, distributions, loans and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from Holdings to pay dividends, pay expenses and meet its other obligations. CBS has no direct operations and no significant assets other than ownership of all the Class A Voting Units (the “Class A Voting Units”) of Holdings. Because CBS conducts its operations through Holdings and its subsidiaries, CBS depends on those entities for dividends, loans and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet its financial obligations, including payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement (“Tax Receivable Agreement”) entered into by and among CBS and the Members in connection with the Merger, and its expenses as a publicly traded company, and to pay any dividends with respect to CBS common stock. Under the terms of Holdings’ Third Amended and Restated LLC Agreement (“the “Third Amended and Restated LLC Agreement”), which was also entered into in connection with the Merger, all proceeds of any issuance by CBS of securities are, subject to certain exceptions, required to be contributed or otherwise provided to Holdings and, pursuant to an Exchange and Support Agreement among the Members, Holdings and CBS that was entered into in connection with the Transaction (the “Exchange and Support Agreement”), CBS is generally prohibited from conducting operations outside those activities related to its role as a publicly traded holding company owning the Class A Voting Units of Holdings. In addition, CBS is generally required to reserve excess cash generated from tax distributions from Holdings for the purpose of providing additional working capital to Holdings. Legal and contractual restrictions in agreements governing future indebtedness of Holdings and its subsidiaries, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of Holdings and its subsidiaries, may limit CBS’ ability to obtain cash from its subsidiaries. The earnings from, or other available assets of, Holdings may not be sufficient to make distributions or loans to enable CBS to pay any dividends on its common stock or satisfy its other financial obligations. CBS’ ability to pay 16 cash dividends to holders of common stock, or satisfy its operating expenses and/or other financial obligations, may be limited by the terms of the Third Amended and Restated LLC Agreement, which generally requires distributions by Holdings to be pro rata to all its members, including CBS and the holders of Class B Units, except in the case of distributions for public company expenses. Concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. CBS’ initial stockholder, 57th Street GAC Holdings LLC, and the members of Holdings own approximately 8.57% and 48.28%, respectively, of the combined voting power of CBS, assuming in each case no Contingency Consideration (as described below) is issued pursuant to the terms of the Business Combination Agreement, none of the outstanding warrants are exercised and no securities are issued pursuant to CBS’ Equity Incentive Plan (the “CBS Equity Plan”). As a result, such persons, if acting together, have the ability to influence the outcome of corporate actions of CBS requiring stockholder approval. In addition, in the event that CBS common stock achieves trading prices of $15, $17.50 and/or $20 per share and/or CBS achieves adjusted EBITDA (as defined in the Business Combination Agreement) of $17.5 million, $25.0 million, and/or $30.0 million at particular points in time during the period beginning May 6, 2011 and ending on December 31, 2015 (such period referred to as the “Earnout Period”), certain members of Holdings will be entitled to receive additional securities, which it refers to as “Contingency Consideration”, exchangeable for up to 4,400,000 shares of CBS common stock. During the Earnout Period, the holders of the Series A Voting Preferred Stock (the “Series A Holders”), exclusively and as a separate class, are entitled to elect such number of CBS’ directors substantially equivalent to a number of directors commensurate with the then aggregate beneficial ownership of the Series A Holders (the “Commensurate Ownership”); provided, however, that to the extent that the Commensurate Ownership would result in the ability of the Series A Holders to elect a fraction of a seat on the Board of Directors, that the Series A Holders are permitted to “round-up” to the nearest whole-number the number of directors the Series A Holders could appoint to the Board of Directors such that the aggregate number of the directors the Series A Holders could elect would exceed the Commensurate Ownership of the Series A Holders, so long as such rounding-up would not result in the Series A Holders electing a majority of CBS’ Board of Directors. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of CBS common stock. CBS’ ability to request indemnification from the Members for damages arising out of claims for indemnification pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement is limited to approximately 16.05% of the equity consideration issued in the Merger transaction which is held in escrow. The indemnification obligations of the Members to CBS against losses that CBS may sustain and that result from, arise out of, or relate to, any breach by the Members of any of their representations, warranties, or the covenants or agreements contained in the Business Combination Agreement is limited to an aggregate of 650,000 of the Class B Units and 65,000 shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock placed in escrow, or at the Members’ option, cash. Other than with respect to claims of fraud or intentional or willful misrepresentation or omission, the foregoing shares in escrow will be the sole remedy for CBS for its rights to indemnification pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement. Claims for indemnification may be asserted against the escrow by CBS once its damages exceed a $200,000 deductible and will be reimbursable to the full extent of the damages in excess of such amount up to a maximum of the escrowed common stock. Claims for indemnification may be asserted until the date CBS files its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. As a consequence of these limitations, CBS may not be able to be entirely compensated for indemnifiable damages that it may sustain. If the Transaction’s benefits do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of CBS’ securities may decline. The market price of CBS’ securities may decline if: • CBS does not achieve the perceived benefits of the Transaction as rapidly, or to the extent anticipated by, financial or industry analysts; or • the effect of the Transaction on CBS’ financial results is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts. 17 Accordingly, securityholders may experience a loss as a result of a decline in the market price of CBS’ securities. A decline in the market price of CBS’ securities also could adversely affect CBS’ ability to issue additional securities and its ability to obtain additional financing in the future. The existing members of Holdings will receive payments for certain tax benefits that CBS may claim arising in connection with the Merger and related transactions, and the amounts CBS may pay could be significant. In connection with the Merger, CBS entered into a Tax Receivable Agreement with the Members that provides for the payment by CBS to the Members of up to 75% of the benefits, if any, that CBS is deemed to realize as a result of (i) the payment of the Merger consideration other than the Class B Units, (ii) the exchange of Class B Units for common stock, and (iii) certain other tax benefits in connection with the Merger and related transactions, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement. It is expected that the payments that CBS may make under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be substantial. Assuming no material changes in the relevant tax law, and that CBS earns sufficient taxable income to realize all tax benefits that are attributable to the payment of the Merger consideration other than the Class B Units, CBS expects that initial payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement relating to such payments could total up to approximately $4.6 million. Future payments to the existing members of Holdings in respect of subsequent exchanges of Class B Units for CBS common stock would be in addition to this initial amount and are expected to be substantial as well. It is possible that future transactions or events could increase or decrease the actual tax benefits realized and the corresponding Tax Receivable Agreement payments. There may be a material negative effect on CBS’ liquidity if, as a result of timing discrepancies or otherwise, the payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement exceed the actual benefits CBS realizes in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement. The payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement are not conditioned upon continued ownership of the CBS’ securities by the existing members of Holdings. In certain cases, payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement to the existing members of Holdings may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits CBS realizes in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement. The Tax Receivable Agreement provides that upon certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control, or if, at any time, CBS elects an early termination of the Tax Receivable Agreement, CBS’ (or its successor’s) obligations would be based on certain assumptions, including that CBS would have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the potential tax benefits arising from the Merger and related transactions (including as a result of entering into the Tax Receivable Agreement). As a result, (i) CBS could be required to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement that are greater than or less than the specified percentage of the actual benefits it realizes in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement and (ii) if CBS elects to terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement early, it would be required to make an immediate payment equal to the present value of the anticipated future tax benefits, which upfront payment may be made years in advance of the actual realization of such future benefits. In these situations, CBS’ obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement could have a substantial negative impact on its liquidity. There can be no assurance that CBS will be able to finance its obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement. Payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be based on the tax reporting positions that CBS determines. Although CBS is not aware of any issue that would cause the Internal Revenue Service to challenge its expected tax reporting positions, CBS will not be reimbursed for any payments previously made under the Tax Receivable Agreement. As a result, in certain circumstances, payments could be made under the Tax Receivable Agreement in excess of the benefits CBS actually realizes. New classes of Holdings securities exchangeable into common stock were issued in connection with the Merger and when exchanged for common stock will become eligible for future resale in the public market, which will result in substantial dilution and could have an adverse effect on the market price of those shares. Upon consummation of the Merger, 4,541,394 Class B Units and 454,139.4 shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock were issued to the Members and therefore they collectively owned securities that would (if fully 18 exchanged) represent approximately 48.28% of CBS common stock on a fully diluted basis (assuming no issuance of Contingency Consideration and exclusive of any stock-based awards that may be granted under the CBS Equity Plan). Subsequently, 64,139.4 of such Series A Voting Preferred Stock were automatically redeemed by CBS in connection with the exchange of 641,394 Class B Units for 641,394 shares of CBS common stock by EHL Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company owned and controlled by Edwin H. Lewis, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Board of Managers of CBS and Holdings, respectively, and cancelled by CBS, and pursuant to the Exchange and Support Agreement. Subsequently, in connection with the appointment of Julian R. Geiger as the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer, an aggregate of 799,000 Class B Units and 79,900 shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock were first forfeited by certain holders, and then an equal amount of these securities were issued to Mr. Geiger by Holdings and CBS, respectively. Currently, 3,900,000 Class B Units and 390,000 shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock remain outstanding. In addition, the existing members of Holdings may be entitled to receive up to an additional 4,400,000 Class B Units and 440,000 shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock as Contingency Consideration and therefore they will, collectively, own securities that would (if fully exchanged) represent approximately 64.77% of CBS common stock on a fully diluted basis (exclusive of any stock-based awards that may be granted under the CBS Equity Plan). CBS’ securities may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market if CBS fails to comply with the continued listing standards. Shares of CBS common stock, warrants to purchase one share of CBS common stock (“Warrants”), and units comprised of one share of CBS common stock and a warrant to purchase one share of CBS common stock (“Units”) are currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. There can be no assurance that CBS will be able to maintain the listing of these securities on NASDAQ. If the NASDAQ Capital Market delists any of these securities from trading on its exchange for failure to meet the continued listing standards or timely regain compliance, CBS and its securityholders could face significant material adverse consequences including: • a limited availability of market quotations for CBS’ securities; • a determination that CBS common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in its common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for its common stock; • a limited amount of analyst coverage; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. CBS may choose to redeem its outstanding Warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to the Warrant holders. Subject to there being a current prospectus under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, CBS may redeem all of its outstanding Warrants at any time at a price of $.01 per Warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days prior written notice of redemption if, and only if, the last sale price of shares of CBS common stock equals or exceeds $17.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before CBS sends the notice of redemption. If CBS were to call all of its outstanding Warrants for redemption, the Warrant holders could be forced: • to exercise the Warrants and pay the exercise price for such Warrants at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so; • to sell the Warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the Warrants; or • to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the Warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the Warrants. 19 Although CBS filed a registration statement covering the issuance of the common stock underlying the Warrants, such registration statement might not be current at the time that the Warrant holders exercise their Warrants, in which case the Warrant holders may not be able to exercise their Warrants and the Warrants could expire worthless. Holders of the Warrants will be able to exercise the Warrants for cash only if CBS has an effective registration statement covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrants and a current prospectus relating to such common stock and, even in the case of a cashless exercise which is permitted in certain circumstances, such shares of common stock are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities laws of the states in which the various holders of Warrants reside. Although CBS has an effective registration statement on file with the SEC covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrants, and has undertaken an obligation in the Warrant agreement to use its best efforts to maintain an effective registration statement covering these shares, CBS may not be able to do so. Factors such as an unexpected inability by CBS to remain current in its SEC reporting obligations or other material developments concerning its business could present difficulties in maintaining an effective registration statement and a current prospectus. Holders of Warrants will not be entitled to a cash settlement for their Warrants if CBS fails to have an effective registration statement or a current prospectus available relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrants. The expiration of Warrants prior to exercise would result in each Unit holder paying the full unit purchase price solely for the common stock underlying the Unit. CBS securityholders would experience substantial dilution in their investment as a result of subsequent exercises of outstanding Warrants and the issuance of additional shares of common stock. CBS has approximately 5,456,300 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding Warrants. CBS could also issue substantial shares in connection with a contingent payment of up to 4,400,000 shares associated with the Transaction pursuant to which Holdings became a subsidiary of CBS. Upon exercise of the outstanding Warrants for shares of CBS common stock or issuance of shares in satisfaction of the contingent payment, these shares will dilute CBS’ existing stockholders. CBS may also issue shares in connection with future acquisitions, financings or pursuant to the CBS Equity Plan that would also be dilutive. Shares of CBS’ common stock, its Units and its Warrants are not insured. The shares of CBS’ common stock, the Units and the Warrants are not deposits and are not insured against loss by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other governmental or private agency. The prices of CBS’ securities may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors in CBS’ securities. The stock markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading prices of CBS common stock, Units and Warrants. The market prices of these securities may also fluctuate significantly in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond the Company’s control: • variations in its quarterly operating results; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of its financial performance; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • announcements by Crumbs or its competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments, new products or product enhancements; • loss of a major customer or failure to complete significant transactions; and • additions or departures of key personnel. 20 On March 26, 2012, the closing sales price of CBS common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market was $3.68 per share. The most recent reported sale of Units occurred on February 23, 2012 and the sales price as reported on the NASDAQ Capital Market was $4.00 per Unit. The most recent reported sale of Warrants occurred on March 26, 2012 and the sales price as reported on the NASDAQ Capital Market was $.19 per Warrant. Shares of CBS’ common stock, its Units and its Warrants are not heavily traded. Shares of CBS’ common stock, its Units and its Warrants are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, but these securities are not heavily traded. Securities that are not heavily traded can be more volatile in price than securities trading in an active public market. Factors such as financial results, the introduction of new products and services by Crumbs or its competitors, and various factors affecting the industry generally may have a significant impact on the market price of CBS’ securities. Management cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for any of CBS’ securities will develop or be sustained in the future. Accordingly, holders of CBS’ securities may not be able to sell such securities at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. CBS is subject to anti-takeover effects of certain charter and bylaw provisions and Delaware law, as well as its substantial insider ownership. CBS has provisions in its Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws that: • make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of CBS, discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of CBS; and may limit the price some investors are willing to pay for CBS common stock; • enable CBS to issue preferred stock without a vote of stockholders or other stockholder action; • make it more difficult for stockholders to take certain corporate actions; and • may delay or prevent a change of control. These and other provisions of CBS’ charter documents, certain provisions of Delaware law and its substantial insider ownership could delay or make more difficult certain types of transactions involving a change of control of CBS or its management. As a result, the price of CBS common stock may be adversely affected. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. This item is not applicable because CBS is a “smaller reporting company.” 