Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We may need additional capital in the future, which may not be available on acceptable terms. Our future capital needs will depend on various factors, such as market acceptance of our existing products and any new products that we develop, marketing and sales costs, our ability to control operating expenses, and the extent to which we implement our growth and business strategies. None of these factors can be predicted with any certainty. In the event that our cash reserves and cash flow from operations are not sufficient to fund our future operations, we may need to raise additional capital. No assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain additional capital in the future or that such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms. Our ability to obtain additional capital will be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions, our operating performance and investor sentiment, which may make it difficult for us to consummate a transaction at the time, in the amount and/or upon the terms and conditions that we desire. If we are unable to raise additional capital at the times, in the amounts, or upon the terms and conditions that we desire, then we might have to delay, scale back or abandon our plans, and, even with such changes in our plans, our operations could consume our capital resources and liquidity. To facilitate executing on our financial initiatives and to fund our growth strategy, CBS entered into a binding term sheet, dated April 11, 2013, with an accredited investor relating to the potential sale by CBS of not less than $10,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its senior unsecured convertible promissory notes in a private placement transaction. Although the term sheet sets forth the material terms of the proposed transaction, it does not obligate either party to consummate the transaction. Rather, it requires the parties to use their good faith best efforts to negotiate, finalize, execute and deliver definitive agreements relating to the transaction. There can be no assurance that CBS will successfully negotiate and enter into these definitive agreements. Moreover, even if CBS does enter into definitive agreements, those agreements would require the parties to satisfy various conditions before the transaction may be consummated, including, without limitation, that CBS has received the approval of The NASDAQ Stock Market for the listing of the shares of common stock that may be issued under the convertible notes and that no material adverse change has occurred with respect to the Company before the closing. It is possible that CBS may need to seek the approval of its stockholders before the transaction can be fully funded. As a result of the foregoing, no assurance can be given that CBS will consummate this transaction and raise the anticipated capital needed to fund its initiatives. Moreover, if CBS is unable to successfully negotiate and enter into the definitive agreements or if CBS otherwise fails to consummate the transaction, our reputation and prospects for capital in the future would likely be materially and adversely harmed and investors could lose confidence in us and our strategies, which could cause the market prices of CBS’ securities to decline and/or limit the trading market for those securities. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to achieve our growth strategy. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to open new stores on a timely and profitable basis. We have experienced delays in store openings from time to time. We may experience delays in the future, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our expansion goals in the future. Any inability to implement our growth strategy could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Our ability to expand successfully will depend on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. We may also, from time to time, choose to alter our current growth plans based on any one or more of the following factors: ·identification and availability of suitable store sites; 9 ·negotiation of favorable leases; ·management of construction and development costs of new stores; ·securing required governmental approvals and permits; ·recruitment of qualified operating personnel; ·the availability of, and our ability to obtain, adequate suppliers of ingredients that meet our quality standards; ·the impact of inclement weather, natural disasters and other calamities; ·competition in new and existing markets; and ·general economic conditions. Our results may fluctuate and could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors due to various factors beyond our control, resulting in a decline in the market prices of the Company’s securities. Our quarterly and yearly results have varied in the past, and we believe that our operating results will continue to vary in the future. Factors such as extreme weather conditions, labor availability and wages of store management and employees, infrastructure costs, changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending, general economic conditions, commodity, energy, insurance and other operating costs may cause our quarterly results to fluctuate. In addition, CBS has outstanding publicly-traded warrants to purchase 5,456,300 shares of CBS’ common stock. Each of these warrants is classified as a derivative liability and, accordingly, the fair value of the warrants is recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as a liability, and such fair value is adjusted at each financial reporting date with the adjustment reflected in our consolidated statement of operations. The fair value of the warrants is determined based on the market price of the warrants as of the end of the reporting period. The market prices may be volatile and change significantly from reporting period to reporting period. For these reasons, quarterly results are difficult to forecast and results for any one quarter may not be indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year. Accordingly, holders of CBS’ securities should not rely upon our historical quarterly results as indications of future performance. Changes in our results, whether due to the foregoing factors or otherwise, could cause the market prices of CBS’ securities to decline. The geographic concentration of our stores in the Northeast region of the United States subjects us to an increased risk of loss of revenue from events beyond our control or conditions affecting that region. As of December 31, 2012, we operated 47 of our 59 stores in the Northeast, of which 21 are located in Manhattan, New York. As a result, we are particularly susceptible to adverse trends, severe weather, competition and economic conditions in that area. In addition, given our geographic concentration, negative publicity regarding any of our stores could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations, as could other regional factors impacting the local economies in a market. Our future expansion into new markets may present increased risks due to our unfamiliarity with those areas. Some of our new stores are planned for markets where we have little or no operating experience. Those markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets. Consumers in a new market may not be familiar with the Crumbs brand, and we may need to build brand awareness in such markets through greater investments in advertising and promotional activity than we originally planned. We may find it more difficult in new markets to hire, motivate and keep qualified employees. Stores opened in new markets may also have lower average store revenue than stores opened in existing markets, and may have higher construction, occupancy or operating costs than stores in existing markets. Further, we may have difficulty finding: (i) reliable commercial bakers or (ii) suppliers or distributors that can provide us, either initially or over time, with adequate supplies of ingredients meeting our quality standards. Revenue at stores opened in new markets may not achieve expected revenue and profit levels, which could negatively impact overall profitability. 10 We have a limited operating history and may be unable to achieve or maintain profitability. The first Crumbs Bake Shop store was opened in 2003. As of December 31, 2012, we were operating 59 stores, 11 of which had been open for less than one year. Accordingly, there is limited information with which to evaluate our business and prospects. As a result, forecasts of our future revenue, expenses and operating results will not be as accurate as they would be if we had a longer history of operations. We cannot predict whether we will be able to achieve or maintain revenue growth, profitability or positive cash flow in the future. Stockholders should not rely on our historical average store sales because they may not be indicative of future results. Our average store sales may not continue at the levels achieved over the last several years. A number of factors have historically affected, and may affect in the future, our average store sales, including: ·introduction of new menu items; ·initial sales performance by new stores and the impact of cannibalization; ·weather conditions; ·competition; ·consumer trends; ·our ability to execute our business strategy effectively; and ·general regional and national economic conditions. Changes in our average store sales or our inability to increase our average unit sales could cause our operating results to vary adversely from expectations, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in our average sales results may not meet the expectations of investment analysts or investors, which could cause the market prices of CBS’ securities to decrease. Our revenue and profit growth could be adversely affected if same store sales are less than expected. The aggregate results of operations of our stores have fluctuated in the past and we may not be able to grow or even maintain same store sales in any future period. A variety of factors affect same store sales, including, among others, consumer trends, competition, current economic conditions, pricing, inflation, changes in our product mix and the success of marketing programs. These factors may cause our same store sales results in the future to differ materially from previous periods and our expectations. If this were to happen, our results of operations and profit growth could be adversely affected, which could result in a decline in the price of CBS’ securities. Our success depends substantially upon the continued retention of certain key personnel. We believe that our success has been, and continues to be, dependent to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management team. Certain members of management are currently employed on an ‘‘at-will’’ basis and may resign from employment at any time. Julian R. Geiger, our President and Chief Executive Officer and John D. Ireland, our Senior Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer, have entered into employment agreements with CBS and Holdings. Our inability to retain employees who are key to our success could adversely affect our future performance. 11 We may face difficulties entering into new or modified arrangements with existing or new suppliers or new service providers. As we expand our operations, we may have to seek new commercial bakers, suppliers and service providers or enter into new arrangements with existing ones, and we may encounter difficulties or be unable to negotiate pricing or other terms on as favorable a basis as those we currently have negotiated. Our inability to enter into new agreements on favorable terms may harm our business and operating results. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property adequately, which could harm the value of our brand and adversely affect our business. Our intellectual property is material to the conduct of our business. Our ability to implement our business plan successfully depends in part on our ability to build further brand recognition using our trademarks, service marks and other proprietary intellectual property, including our name and logos. Crumbs has made a practice of registering its core trademarks in the United States. Crumbs also has registered certain marks in the European Community and Japan; however, if Holdings’ efforts to protect its intellectual property are inadequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on such intellectual property, then the value of our brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and might prevent our brands from achieving or maintaining market acceptance. Although we have not encountered claims against us from prior users of intellectual property relating to our bake shop operations in areas where we operate or intend to conduct operations, there can be no assurances that we will not encounter such claims in the future. Additionally, although we monitor third party uses of our brands, infringing uses could occur, which could dilute the distinctive nature of our brands. Any claims against us, or unresolved use by third parties, could harm our image, brand or competitive position or cause us to incur significant costs. We are subject to all of the risks associated with leasing space subject to long-term non-cancelable leases and with respect to the real property. Crumbs’ leases executed prior to 2012 generally had initial terms between 10 and 15 years. We generally cannot cancel those leases so if an existing store is not profitable and we decide to close a particular store, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, payment of the base rent for the remainder of the lease term. Since 2012, the majority of our new leases contain more favorable provisions with regard to early termination. In certain instances, there may be change in control provisions in the leases which put us at a competitive disadvantage when negotiating extensions or which require us to obtain landlord consent for certain transactions. Our leases generally require us to pay a proportionate share of the cost of insurance, taxes, maintenance and utilities. In addition, as each of our leases expires, we may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores in desirable locations. Finally, locations that we believe are desirable at the time we enter into a lease may become unattractive over time as demographic patterns change, and the risks regarding lease terminations discussed above may limit our ability to relocate or close those locations. Our business is affected by changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending. Our success depends, in part, upon the popularity of our products and our ability to develop new menu items that appeal to consumers. Shifts in consumer preferences away from our stores or our menu items, our inability to develop new menu items that appeal to consumers, or changes in our menu that eliminate items popular with some consumers could harm our business. Also, our success depends to a significant extent on discretionary consumer spending, which is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. Accordingly, we may experience declines in sales during economic downturns or during periods of uncertainty. Any material decline in the amount of discretionary spending could have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations, business and financial condition. 12 Our success depends on our ability to compete with cupcake-specific bakeries, traditional bakeries and other food service businesses. The retail consumable foods industry is intensely competitive and we compete with many well-established traditional bakeries, cupcake-specific bakeries and other companies providing baked goods and coffee, on the basis of taste, quality and price of products offered, customer service, atmosphere, location, convenience and overall customer experience. We also compete with quick-services restaurants, delicatessens, cafés, take-out food service companies, supermarkets and convenience stores that offer the same types of baked goods. Aggressive discounts by our competitors or the entrance of new competitors into our markets could reduce our sales and profit margins. Many of our competitors or potential competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than us, which may allow them to compete more effectively than us with respect to some or all of the factors set forth in the preceding paragraph. As our competitors expand their operations, we expect competition to intensify. In addition, other new or established companies may develop baked goods stores that operate with concepts similar to ours, including the sale of gourmet cupcakes. Competition also could cause us to modify or evolve our products, designs or strategies. If we do so, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in implementing the changes or that our profitability will not be negatively impacted by them. We also compete with other employers in our markets for hourly workers and may be subject to higher labor costs. Finally, we compete with all retail establishments in our markets for desirable store locations. If we are unable to successfully compete in our markets, then we may be unable to sustain or increase our revenues and profitability. We are dependent upon a small number of independent commercial bakeries for a significant amount of our menu items. The loss of a supplier, other disruptions to our supply chain, and/or our inability to predict demand could adversely affect our operating results. We currently rely on, and have agreements with, five independent commercial bakeries for the manufacture and daily delivery of our baked goods products in the New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Boston and Washington, D.C. area markets. Accordingly, we are particularly susceptible to risks related to these suppliers, including their continued ability to maintain sufficient production of baked goods, to produce baked goods that meet our quality standards, and the risk of delivery disruptions that could arise due to a number of factors including adverse weather, traffic conditions and mechanical issues related to their delivery trucks. Our dependence on frequent deliveries to our stores by regional distributors could cause shortages, supply interruptions and/or the need to quickly seek alternative suppliers at higher prices, all of which could adversely impact our operations. Additionally, because none of our stores bake the baked goods they sell, each of our stores is required to estimate and order sufficient inventory daily. If stores are unable to predict the demand accurately, then our profitability and operating results may be adversely affected. There are many factors which could cause shortages or interruptions in the supply of our products, including weather, unanticipated demand, labor, production or distribution problems, quality issues and cost, and the financial health of our suppliers, most of which are beyond our control, and which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by increased labor costs or labor shortages. Labor is a primary component in the cost of operating our business. We devote significant resources to recruiting and training our managers and hourly employees. Increased labor costs due to competition, increased minimum wage or employee benefits costs or otherwise, would adversely impact our operating expenses. In addition, our success depends on our ability to attract, motivate and retain qualified employees, including store managers and staff, to keep pace with our growth strategy. If we are unable to attract, motivate and retain qualified employees, then our results of operations may be adversely affected. 13 Moreover, our costs may materially increase as a result of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010. This law imposed new mandates on employers, including a requirement, effective January 1, 2014, that employers with 50 or more full-time employees pay a financial penalty unless they provide “credible” health insurance to employees. If we choose to opt out of offering health insurance to our employees, we may become less attractive as an employer and it may be harder for us to compete for qualified employees. Fluctuations in various food and supply costs, including dairy, could adversely affect our operating results. Supplies and prices of the various products that are used to prepare our baked goods (including flour, milk, sugar and eggs) or coffee can be affected by a variety of factors, such as weather, seasonal fluctuations, demand, politics and economics in the producing countries, and such prices may fluctuate. An increase in pricing of any ingredient that is used in our baked goods could result in an increase in costs from our suppliers, and we may not be able to increase prices to cover increased costs which would have an adverse effect on our operating results and profitability. We could become a party to litigation that could adversely affect us by distracting management, increasing our expenses or subjecting us to material money damages and other remedies. We may be subject to the filing of complaints or lawsuits against us alleging that we are responsible for some illness or injury suffered at our stores or after consuming our products, or alleging problems with quality or other concerns regarding our products or operations. We are also subject to a variety of other claims arising in the ordinary course of our business, including personal injury claims, contract claims and claims alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters, and we could become subject to class action or other lawsuits related to these or different matters in the future. Claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt its performance. A judgment in excess of our insurance coverage or our insurance carriers’ decision to deny or limit insurance coverage for any claims could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also materially and adversely affect our reputation or prospects, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. If we fail to comply with governmental laws or regulations or if these laws or regulations change, then our business could suffer. In connection with the operation of our business, we are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to: ·building construction and zoning requirements; ·nutritional content labeling and disclosure requirements; ·management and protection of the personal data of our employees and customers; ·environmental matters; ·sales tax; and ·licensing and regulation of our stores under federal, state and local laws relating to, among other things, business, health, fire and safety codes. Various federal and state labor laws govern our operations and our relationship with our employees, including minimum wage, overtime, and accommodation and working conditions, benefits, citizenship requirements, insurance matters, workers’ compensation, disability laws such as the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act, child labor laws and anti-discrimination laws. 14 These labor laws are complex and vary from location to location, which complicates monitoring and compliance. As a result, regulatory risks are inherent in our operations. We may experience material difficulties or failures with respect to compliance with these labor laws in the future. Our failure to comply with these labor laws could result in required renovations to our facilities, litigation, fines, penalties, judgments or other sanctions including the temporary suspension of the operation of our stores or a delay in construction or opening of stores, any of which could adversely affect our business, operations and reputation. In recent years, there has been an increased legislative, regulatory and consumer focus at the federal, state and municipal levels on the food industry, including nutrition and advertising practices. For example, several states and individual municipalities, including New York City and the State of California, have adopted regulations requiring that certain restaurants include caloric or other nutritional information on their menu boards and on printed menus, which must be plainly visible to consumers at the point of ordering. Likewise, there have been several similar proposals on the national level. As a result, we may in the future become subject to other regulations in the area of nutrition disclosure or advertising, such as requirements to provide information about the nutritional content of our food, which could increase our expenses or slow customer flow. The continuing challenging economic conditions could adversely affect our business and financial results and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources. Challenging economic conditions could adversely affect our business and financial results. Our customers may make fewer discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, reduced access to credit and falling home prices. Because a key point in our business strategy is maintaining our transaction count and margin growth, any significant decrease in customer traffic or average profit per transaction will negatively impact our financial performance as reduced revenue creates downward pressure on margins. Financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers could result in product delays or shortages. Additionally, it is unknown when the broader national economy will fully recover. An economy that fails to improve or that further deteriorates could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources, including our ability to raise additional capital if needed, or the ability of financial institutions to honor draws on our standby letters of credit, and could otherwise negatively impact our business and financial results. We may incur costs resulting from security risks that we face in connection with our electronic processing and transmission of confidential customer information. We use commercially available software and other technologies to provide security for processing and transmission of customer debit and credit card data. For the quarter ended December 31, 2012, approximately 61.6% of our revenue is attributable to debit and credit card transactions. Our systems could be compromised in the future, which could result in the misappropriation of customer information or the disruption of systems. These consequences could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business or subject us to additional liabilities. Our industry is affected by litigation and publicity concerning food quality, health and other issues, which can cause customers to avoid our products and result in liabilities. Food service businesses, such as bakeries, can be adversely affected by litigation and complaints from customers or government authorities resulting from food quality, illness, injury or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one store or a limited number of stores. Adverse publicity about these allegations may negatively affect us, regardless of whether the allegations are true, by discouraging customers from buying our products. We could also incur significant litigation costs or liabilities in connection with a lawsuit or claim against us. 15 CBS will incur significant costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, CBS incurs significant legal, accounting and other expenses. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, and related rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) regulate corporate governance practices of public companies. For example, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, CBS must document and test its disclosure and internal control procedures, and its management must periodically assess and report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Furthermore, if CBS identifies any issues in complying with those requirements (for example, if CBS or its independent registered public accounting firm identifies a material weakness or significant deficiency in CBS’ internal control over financial reporting), then CBS could incur additional costs in rectifying those issues. In addition, CBS incurs additional expenses associated with its SEC reporting requirements. Compliance with these public company requirements can be costly and may require management to divert time and attention away from running the Company. A material weakness or significant deficiency in our disclosure or internal controls could have an adverse effect on us. CBS is required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to establish and maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. These control systems are intended to provide reasonable assurance that material information relating to the Company is made known to management and reported as required by the Exchange Act, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability and preparation of our financial statements, and to provide reasonable assurance that fraud and other unauthorized uses of our assets are detected and prevented. As evidenced by the disclosures made in Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we may not be able to maintain controls and procedures that are effective at the reasonable assurance level. If that were to happen, our ability to provide timely and accurate information about the Company, including financial information, to investors could be compromised and our results of operations could be harmed. Moreover, if CBS or its independent registered public accounting firm were to identify a material weakness or significant deficiency, our reputation could be harmed and investors could lose confidence in us, which could cause the market prices of CBS’ securities to decline and/or limit the trading market for those securities. Risks Related to an Investment in CBS’ Securities Shares of CBS’ common stock, its Warrants and its Units are not insured. The shares of CBS’ common stock, its warrants to purchase one share of common stock (“Warrants”), its units comprised of one share of common stock and a warrant to purchase one share of common stock (“Units”) are not deposits and are not insured against loss by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other governmental or private agency. Shares of CBS’ common stock, its Warrants and its Units are not heavily traded. Shares of CBS’ common stock, its Warrants and its Units are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, but these securities are not heavily traded. Securities that are not heavily traded can be more volatile in price than securities trading in an active public market. Factors such as financial results, the introduction of new products and services by Crumbs or its competitors, and various factors affecting the industry generally may have a significant impact on the market price of CBS’ securities. Management cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for any of CBS’ securities will develop or be sustained in the future. Accordingly, holders of CBS’ securities may not be able to sell such securities at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. The prices of the shares of CBS’ common stock, its Warrants and its Units have been volatile, and continued volatility could result in a substantial decline in value or substantial losses for investors. The market prices of CBS’ securities have been, and are likely to continue to be, highly volatile. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2012, CBS’ common stock traded at prices ranging from $2.00 per share to $4.20 per share and the daily reported volume of shares traded ranged from 100 shares to 1.5 million shares. In addition, the stock markets in general have experienced volatility over the last several years that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading prices of CBS’ securities. Although it is not possible for us to determine the reasons for prior volatility or to predict future volatility, some specific factors, in addition to broad market fluctuations and the other risk factors identified in this Annual Report, that could have a significant effect on the price and trading volume of CBS’ securities include but are not limited to: 16 ·variations in our quarterly operating results; ·changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; ·changes in market valuations of similar companies; ·announcements by us of financial news, significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments, new products or product enhancements; ·announcements by our competitors regarding their businesses and prospects; ·the public’s reaction to our public announcements and filings with the SEC and those of our competitors; ·our loss of a major supplier or other strategic partner; ·additions or departures of key personnel; or ·changes in financial markets or general economic conditions. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Any of these factors could cause the trading price of the Company’s common stock to fluctuate significantly from one trading day to the next trading day, and public disclosure by us regarding these factors, such as our financial results, business developments or other material news, may exacerbate that volatility. As a result, investors may not be able to sell their shares of the Company’s common stock at prices that equal or exceed the prices at which the shares were originally purchased. CBS is a holding company and relies on dividends, distributions, loans and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from Holdings to pay dividends, pay expenses and meet its other obligations. CBS has no direct operations and no significant assets other than its ownership of all of the New Crumbs Class A Voting Units (the “Class A Voting Units”) and the deferred tax asset discussed below. Because CBS conducts its operations through Holdings and the subsidiaries of Holdings, CBS depends in large part on those entities for dividends, loans and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet its financial obligations, including payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement (“Tax Receivable Agreement”) entered into by and among CBS, Holdings and the Members in connection with the Merger, and CBS’ expenses as a publicly traded company, and to pay any dividends with respect to CBS’ common stock. Under the terms of Holdings’ Third Amended and Restated LLC Agreement (the “LLC Agreement”), which was also entered into in connection with the Merger, all proceeds of any securities issuance by CBS are, subject to certain exceptions, required to be contributed or otherwise provided to Holdings and, pursuant to an Exchange and Support Agreement among the Members, Holdings and CBS that was entered into in connection with the Merger, CBS is generally prohibited from engaging in activities other than serving as a publicly traded holding company owning the Class A Voting Units. In addition, CBS is generally required to reserve excess cash generated from income tax distributions from Holdings for the purpose of providing additional working capital to Holdings. Legal and contractual restrictions in agreements governing future indebtedness of Holdings and its subsidiaries, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of Holdings and its subsidiaries, may limit CBS’ ability to obtain cash from its subsidiaries. The earnings from, or other available assets of, Holdings may not be sufficient to make distributions or loans to enable CBS to pay any dividends on its common stock or satisfy its other financial obligations. CBS’ ability to pay cash dividends to holders of common stock, or satisfy its operating expenses and/or other financial obligations, may be limited by the terms of the LLC Agreement, which generally requires distributions by Holdings to be pro rata to all its members, including CBS and the holders of Class B Units, except in the case of distributions for public company expenses. 17 These factors, coupled with the Company’s results of operations for the last two years, make it unlikely that CBS will pay dividends on its common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, an investor’s only opportunity to achieve a return on an investment in CBS’ securities may be limited to sales of those securities at times when their market prices have appreciated above the prices paid by the investor at the time of investment. Concentration of ownership of CBS may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. CBS’ directors and executive officers beneficially own, in the aggregate, 27.8% of the outstanding voting power of CBS. Such persons, if acting together, have the ability to significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the nomination and election of directors, the determination of the Company’s corporate and management policies and the determination of the outcome of significant corporate transaction such as mergers or acquisitions and asset sales. In addition, in the event that CBS’ common stock achieves trading prices of $20 per share for 20 out of 30 consecutive trading days in 2013 and/or the Company achieves adjusted EBITDA (as defined in the Business Combination Agreement) of $17.5 million, $25.0 million, and/or $30.0 million at particular points in time during the period beginning May 6, 2011 and ending on December 31, 2015 (such period referred to as the “Earnout Period”), then certain members of Holdings will be entitled to receive additional securities that will be exchangeable for up to 4,400,000 shares of CBS’ common stock (“Contingency Consideration”). During the Earnout Period, the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock (the “Series A Holders”), exclusively and as a separate class, are entitled to elect such number of directors of CBS substantially equivalent to a number of directors commensurate with the then-aggregate beneficial ownership of the Series A Holders (the “Commensurate Ownership”); provided, however, that, to the extent that the Commensurate Ownership would result in the ability of the Series A Holders to elect a fraction of a seat on the Board of Directors, the Series A Holders are permitted to “round-up” to the nearest whole-number the number of directors the Series A Holders could appoint to the Board of Directors such that the aggregate number of the directors the Series A Holders could elect would exceed the Commensurate Ownership of the Series A Holders, so long as such rounding-up would not result in the Series A Holders electing a majority of the Board of Directors. Some of our directors and executive officers are members of Holdings who may become entitled to receive such Contingency Consideration. These concentrations of voting power and ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. Holders of the shares of CBS’ common stock would experience substantial dilution in their investment as a result of subsequent exercises of outstanding warrants, exchanges of other outstanding securities and/or the issuance of additional shares of CBS’ common stock. As of the date of this Annual Report, there were outstanding warrants to purchase 5,456,300 shares of CBS’ common stock and 2,340,000 outstanding Class B Units that are exchangeable for shares of CBS’ common stock on a one-for-one basis. Pursuant to the arrangements under which the Contingency Consideration were issued, Holdings could be required to issue up to an additional 4,400,000 Class B Units. The exercise of the warrants and/or the exchange of the Class B Units would result in the issuance of a significant number of new shares of common stock. In addition, CBS could issue a significant number of shares of common stock in connection with future acquisitions or financings or pursuant to CBS’ Equity Incentive Plan. Any of these issuances would dilute CBS’ existing stockholders, and such dilution could be significant. Moreover, such dilution could have a material adverse effect on the market price for the shares, as well as the market prices for CBS’ other securities. The existing members of Holdings will receive payments for certain tax benefits that CBS may claim arising in connection with the Merger and related transactions, and the amounts that CBS may pay could be significant. In connection with the Merger, CBS entered into a Tax Receivable Agreement with the Members that provides for the payment by CBS to the Members of up to 75% of the benefits, if any, that CBS is deemed to realize as a result of (i) the payment of the Merger consideration other than the Class B Units, (ii) the exchange of Class B Units for shares of common stock, and (iii) certain other tax benefits in connection with the Merger and related transactions, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement. 18 It is expected that the payments that CBS may make under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be substantial. It is possible that future transactions or events could increase or decrease the actual tax benefits realized and the corresponding Tax Receivable Agreement payments. There may be a material negative effect on CBS’ liquidity if, as a result of timing discrepancies or otherwise, the payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement exceed the actual benefits CBS realizes in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement. The payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement are not conditioned upon continued ownership of CBS’ securities by the Members. In certain cases, payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement to the members of Holdings may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits that CBS realizes in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement. The Tax Receivable Agreement provides that upon certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control, or if at any time CBS elects an early termination of the Tax Receivable Agreement, CBS’ (or its successor’s) obligations would be based on certain assumptions, including that CBS would have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the potential tax benefits arising from the Merger and related transactions (including as a result of entering into the Tax Receivable Agreement). As a result, (i) CBS could be required to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement that are greater than or less than the specified percentage of the actual benefits it realizes in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement and (ii) if CBS elects to terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement early, it would be required to make an immediate payment equal to the present value of the anticipated future tax benefits, which upfront payment may be made years in advance of the actual realization of such future benefits. In these situations, CBS’ obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement could have a substantial negative impact on its liquidity. There can be no assurance that CBS will be able to finance its obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement. Payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be based on the tax reporting positions determined by CBS. Although CBS is not aware of any issue that would cause the Internal Revenue Service to challenge its expected tax reporting positions, CBS will not be reimbursed for any payments, if any, previously made under the Tax Receivable Agreement. As a result, in certain circumstances, payments could be made under the Tax Receivable Agreement in excess of the benefits that CBS actually realizes. CBS’ securities may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market if CBS fails to comply with the continued listing standards. Shares of CBS’ common stock, its Warrants and its Units are currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. There can be no assurance that CBS will be able to maintain the listing of these securities on NASDAQ. If the NASDAQ Capital Market delists any of these securities from trading on its exchange for failure to meet the continued listing standards or timely regain compliance, CBS and its securityholders could face significant material adverse consequences including: ·a limited availability of market quotations for CBS’ securities; ·a determination that CBS common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in its common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for its common stock; ·a limited amount of analyst coverage; and ·a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. CBS is subject to anti-takeover effects of certain charter and bylaw provisions and Delaware law, as well as its substantial insider ownership. CBS’ Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions that: ·make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of CBS and discourage a third party from attempting to acquire such control; ·enable CBS to issue preferred stock without a vote of stockholders or other stockholder action; 19 ·make it more difficult for stockholders to take certain corporate actions; and ·may delay or prevent a change of control. These and other provisions of CBS’ charter documents, certain provisions of Delaware law and the substantial insider ownership of CBS’ securities could delay or make more difficult certain types of transactions involving a change of control of CBS or its Board of Directors. These factors could cause adversely affect the market prices of CBS’ securities. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. This item is not applicable because CBS is a “smaller reporting company.” 