Risk Factors Related to Our Shares of Common Stock The trading price of our shares of common stock may fluctuate significantly. Our common stock has been listed on the Nasdaq since February 2010 and on the ASX in the form of CDIs since January 2010. The price of our shares of common stock may be volatile, which means that it could decline substantially within a short period of time. The trading price of the shares may fluctuate, and investors may experience a decrease in the value of the shares that they hold, sometimes regardless of our operating performance or prospects. The trading price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including the following: • future announcements concerning our business and that of our competitors including in particular, the progress of our industrialization program for the Unifill syringe; • regulatory developments, enforcement actions bearing on advertising, marketing or sales of our current or pipeline products; • quarterly variations in operating results; • introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; • acquisition or loss of significant customers, distributors or suppliers; • business acquisitions or divestitures; • changes in third party reimbursement practices; • fluctuations of investor interest in the medical device sector; and • fluctuations in the economy, world political events or general market conditions. If there are substantial sales of our shares of common stock, our share price could decline. As of September 15, 2010, we had 55,230,454 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. All of those shares of common stock other than 4,735,314 shares held by our affiliates, are freely tradable under the Securities Act. Shares held by our affiliates are eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144. If our stockholders sell a large number of shares of common stock or the public market perceives that our stockholders might sell a large number of shares, the prices at which our common stock trades could decline significantly. In addition, as of September 15, 2010, 10,129,404 shares of our common stock are subject to outstanding stock options. We have filed a registration statement on Form S-8 to cover the issuance of 9,151,667 shares of our common stock that are issuable upon the exercise of outstanding options. During June 2010, our registration statement on Form S-1 was declared effective to cover the resale of 5,444,633 shares of our common stock that are issuable upon the exercise of options not eligible for inclusion in our registration statement on Form S-8. The exercise of those options may have a dilutive effect on current stockholders and if those parties exercising their options choose to sell their shares, it could have an adverse effect on the market price for our shares. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. For the foreseeable future, we do not intend to declare or pay any dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain our earnings, if any, to finance the development and expansion of our business and product lines. Any future decision to declare or pay dividends will be made by our board of directors and will depend upon a number of factors including our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, under our current bank financing agreements, we are not permitted to pay cash dividends without the prior written consent of the lender. 28 Table of Contents We may be subject to arbitrage risks. Investors may seek to profit by exploiting the difference, if any, in the price of our shares of common stock on the Nasdaq and on the ASX. Such arbitrage activities could cause our stock price in the market with the higher value to decrease to the price set by the market with the lower value. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, the Delaware General Corporation Law and the terms of our industrialization agreement with sanofi-aventis may delay or deter a change of control transaction. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of deterring takeovers, such as those provisions authorizing our board of directors to issue, from time to time, any series of preferred stock and fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of such series of preferred stock; prohibiting stockholders from acting by written consent in lieu of a meeting; requiring advance notice of stockholder intention to put forth director nominees or bring up other business at a stockholders’ meeting; prohibiting stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; requiring a 662/3% majority stockholder approval in order for stockholders to amend our bylaws or adopt new bylaws; and providing that, subject to the rights of preferred shares, the number of directors is to be fixed exclusively by our board of directors. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, from which we did not elect to opt out, provides that if a holder acquires 15% or more of our stock without prior approval of our board of directors, that holder will be subject to certain restrictions on its ability to acquire us within three years. In addition, our industrialization agreement with sanofi-aventis provides to sanofi-aventis the right to match a change of control proposal and to terminate the industrialization agreement under certain circumstances of a change of control event. See “Business — Strategic Partnership with sanofi-aventis”. These provisions may delay or deter a change of control of us, and could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 