Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. We believe the risks described below are the material risks facing the Company. However, the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional unknown risks or risks that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our shares of common stock could decline significantly. Investors should consider the specific risk factors discussed below, and the other information contained or incorporated by reference herein and the other documents that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Risks Relating to Our Business We do not expect to be profitable until we either achieve commercial scale production and sales of our proprietary injectable drug delivery systems or receive sufficient upfront fees and other payments from customers to offset our total operating expenditures. At the present time, while some of our customers have approved therapies, none of our customers have received regulatory clearance or approval from the FDA or a foreign regulatory authority for the commercial sale of a drug-device combination product that incorporates any of our products. It is also our understanding that, at the present time, none of our customers have applied for regulatory approval of such a drug-device combination product. None of our products are currently being sold by our customers with their injectable therapies. To date, we have derived substantially all of our revenue from upfront payments, exclusivity fees and milestone-based fees from customers. Many of our customers’ injectable therapies that are planned to be used in combination with our products are in various stages of clinical development. We have a broad portfolio of proprietary product platforms, including pre-filled syringes, drug reconstitution delivery systems, auto-injectors, wearable injectors, ocular delivery systems and other novel injectable drug delivery systems. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant research and development expenses related to the development and manufacturing scale-up of our proprietary portfolio of injectable drug delivery systems. We have also continued to invest in our facilities and in capital equipment in the amount of $12.1 million during fiscal year 2014. We are also installing additional clean room manufacturing space within the existing footprint of our York facility that will accommodate additional assembly lines and related activities. In addition, during fiscal year 2014, we increased headcount by 45 employees (consisting mostly of employees focused on research and development) and invested $34.1 million to address our research and development requirements, including employee costs, equipment, materials, tooling, prototypes and outside contract services. We expect to continue investing in additional staff and capital equipment to support increasing customer demand for our products and services. We will also incur significant general and administrative expenses such as assisting our customers with seeking regulatory approvals and complying with the requirements related to being a public company in both the United States and Australia. We do not expect to be profitable until we generate sufficient revenue from product sales, upfront fees, milestone-based payments or royalty fees to offset our total operating expenditures. Even then, our research and development, capital and general and administrative expenses will need to be at a reasonable cost and volume level for us to be profitable. If we experience problems or delays in securing additional agreements to supply our products and services to customers, our business, including our ability to generate additional revenue, will be materially and adversely affected. To date, we have signed commercial supply contracts and other agreements with several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. However, our ability to generate additional revenue will also depend on our ability to successfully negotiate additional agreements for our proprietary product platforms with new or existing customers and, notwithstanding potential upfront or milestone-based payments, to begin supplying substantial commercial quantities of such products under such agreements. Given the substantial size, complexity and long-term duration of many of these prospective agreements, they can take significant time to negotiate and finalize. 16 Table of Contents While we are in advanced stages of negotiating some of these agreements, we cannot assure you if or when we will be able to enter into any additional agreements for our products or what the terms of any such agreements will be. If we are unable to secure additional supply agreements for our products and services in a timely manner or obtain favorable terms under such agreements, our ability to generate additional revenue aside from our existing contracts will be materially and adversely affected. Our customers’ drug-device combination products will be subject to regulatory oversight and approvals. We cannot be sure how the FDA, EMA or other foreign regulatory authority will regulate our customers’ drug-device combination products and/or whether our customers will be successful in obtaining and/or maintaining regulatory approval. Our products, outside of some of our auto-injectors, are designed to be supplied to customers as sub-assembly components ready for filling, assembly and/or packaging by our customers with a measured dose of an injectable therapy. Once our products have been filled, assembled and/or packaged by our customers with an injectable therapy, they become classified for regulatory purposes as a drug-device combination product. While we expect to submit our products to the FDA, as an MAF or DMF for reference by the FDA when our customers are seeking FDA approval for their specific drug-device combination products or as a 510(k) filing for clearance or premarket approval, as appropriate for the class of device (or other foreign regulatory processes), our customers are ultimately responsible for seeking regulatory approval of the drug-device combination product. Each of our supply agreements that are currently in effect reflect such business-to-business partnerships whereby we will sell our products to customers who are responsible for the regulatory approval, marketing and sale of the drug-device combination product. In order to be eligible to market and sell a drug-device combination, a customer will need to submit and receive approval of an NDA, BLA, ANDA or the foreign equivalent of any of the foregoing, which shall include documentation of summative human factor studies and records of completion of all required clinical trials. For a drug-device combination product, it is possible that our customers will be required to submit marketing applications through both the drug or biologic, and medical device pathways. The process of obtaining FDA marketing clearance or approval is lengthy, expensive, and uncertain. We cannot be sure how the FDA, EMA or other foreign regulatory authority will regulate our customers’ drug-device combination products, in which case the path to regulatory approval would be different and could be more lengthy and costly. We also cannot be sure that our customers’ drug-device combination products will be cleared or approved in a timely fashion, or at all, which could impact our customers’ ability to market their drug-device combination products that utilize our products. If the FDA does not approve or clear the drug-device combination products in a timely fashion or at all, or if there are ongoing issues with obtaining approval of drug-device combination products involving our proprietary product platforms and our customers’ injectable therapies, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. Moreover, the approval process may also require changes to our customers’ drug-device combination products or result in limitations on the indicated uses of our customers’ drug-device combination products, which will have an indirect effect on us. As a result, our customers’ expectations with respect to marketing approval or clearance may prove to be inaccurate, and our customers may not be able to obtain marketing approval or clearance in a timely manner or at all. In addition, regulatory requirements in the U.S. and outside the U.S. can, at any time, require prompt action to maintain compliance, particularly, when product modifications are required. Following the introduction of a drug-device combination product, these agencies will also periodically review our manufacturing processes and the performance of our customers’ drug-device combination products. Our failure to comply with cGMP, and our customers’ failure to comply with adverse event reporting, clinical trials and other requirements of these agencies could delay or prevent the production, marketing or sale of our customers’ drug-device combination products and result in fines, delays, suspensions or prevention of regulatory clearances, closure of manufacturing sites, seizures or recalls of products and damage to our and our customers’ reputation. 17 Table of Contents Our customers are subject to extensive regulation by governments around the world, and if these regulations are not complied with, existing and future operations may be curtailed, and we could be subject to liability. Our customers’ drug-device combination products that utilize our products are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States, Europe and other countries, including the FDA. Not only do these regulations present challenges during the regulatory approval process as discussed above, but after our customers’ drug-device combination products that utilize our products are approved and placed in the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply. These include, but are not limited to QSR, labeling regulations and FDA prohibitions against the promotion of products for uncleared, unapproved or “off label” uses, medical device reporting regulations and post-market surveillance regulations, and laws and regulations that govern the development, testing, manufacturing, advertising, marketing and distribution of medical devices, including our customers’ drug-device combination products that utilize our products. The FDA has broad post-market and regulatory enforcement powers. As a registered device manufacturer and supplier of the drug delivery device component of a combination product, we are subject to unannounced and preapproval inspections by the FDA of our manufacturing facility to determine our compliance with QSR and cGMP. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in an enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any or all of the following sanctions: fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties, recall or seizure of our products or our customers’ drug-device combination products, operating restrictions, partial suspensions or total shutdown of production, refusing our customers’ requests for regulatory approvals of their drug-device combination products or new intended uses, as applicable, withdrawing our customers’ regulatory approvals that are already granted and criminal prosecution. The therapeutic efficacy of many of our customers’ therapies is either unproven in humans or has only been proven in limited circumstances, and we may not be able to successfully develop and sell our products in combination with our customers’ therapies. While some of our customers will be using our products with established, approved therapies, in many instances, the benefits of our customers’ therapies as injectable therapies is either unproven or has only been proven in limited circumstances. Our ability to generate revenue from our products will depend heavily on the successful development, commercialization and sales of our customers’ therapies, which is subject to many potential risks. For example, data developed in clinical trials or following the commercialization of our customers’ therapies may show that such therapies do not prove to be effective treatments for the targets they are being designed to act against (or as effective as other treatments available). In clinical trials or following commercialization, it may be shown that our customers’ therapies interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways. If our customers’ therapies are associated with undesirable side effects or have characteristics that are unexpected, our customers may need to abandon clinical development or discontinue commercial sales or limit clinical development or sales to certain uses or subpopulations in which the undesirable side effects or other characteristics are less prevalent, less severe or more acceptable from a risk-benefit perspective. As a result of these and other risks described herein that are inherent in the development and sale of therapeutic agents, our customers may never successfully develop or successfully commercialize their therapies or the commercialization of our customers’ therapies may be abandoned or severely limited, which may limit our profitability with respect to such customers, and we may not be successful in achieving commercial scale production and sales of our injectable drug delivery systems in combination with our customers’ therapies. 18 Table of Contents Many of the injectable therapies being targeted for use with our products are not approved, but in various phases of clinical development. These injectable therapies may be independently terminated by our customers prior to submission of a regulatory filing or even after our customers receive regulatory approval, resulting in the cessation of any revenue associated with that contract or program. We work with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies who are targeting the use of our products with a variety of injectable therapies. While some of our customers have approved therapies, many of our customers’ injectable therapies are not approved, and in various phases of clinical development. Typically, we become associated with pipeline therapies when they are in Phase II or Phase III clinical trials. On some occasions, especially relating to specialized or novel requirements for the delivery of an injectable therapy, we may become involved with a therapy in pre-clinical development or Phase I clinical trials. The clinical development of these pipeline therapies can be terminated by our customers at any stage. Furthermore, our customers could obtain regulatory approval for their injectable therapies and their drug-device combination products that include our product, and decide for business reasons not to market and sell their drug-device combination product. Prior investments we have made in manufacturing capacity or research and development will then not result in the generation of revenue that would have previously been anticipated through our customers’ regulatory approval, launch and post-market sales of the drug-device combination product within target domestic and international markets. Our customers may terminate their contracts or cease doing business with us in the event of a breach by us, for strategic reasons or, in some cases, for no reason. While the term of our customer contracts may be for up to 15 years, our customers may decide to terminate their contracts or cease doing business with us in the event of a breach by us, for strategic reasons or, in some cases, for no reason. In such event, we may not receive associated payments or revenue from such customer or under the relevant contract and we may not be able to recoup investments we have made in manufacturing capacity or research and development in connection with such customer or customer contract. Accordingly, if our customers terminate their contracts with us, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our commercial success depends upon the attainment of significant market acceptance of our customers’ product candidates, if approved, among physicians, patients, healthcare payers or the medical community. Even if our customers obtain regulatory approval for their product candidates, their product candidates may not gain sufficient levels of market acceptance among physicians, healthcare payers, patients or the medical community to make them commercially feasible. Market acceptance of our customers’ product candidates, if they receive approval, depends on a number of factors, including the: • efficacy and safety of our customers’ product candidates; • clinical indications for which their product candidates are approved; • acceptance by physicians, patients and the medical community of their product candidates as a safe and effective treatment; • potential and perceived advantages of their product candidates over alternative treatments; • safety of their product candidates seen in a broader patient group, including their use outside the approved indications should physicians choose to prescribe for such uses; • prevalence and severity of any side effects; • product labeling or product insert requirements of the FDA or other regulatory authorities; • timing of market introduction of their product candidates as well as competitive products; 19 Table of Contents • cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments; • availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement and pricing by third-party payers and government authorities; • relative convenience and ease of administration; and • effectiveness of their sales and marketing efforts. If our customers’ product candidates are approved but fail to achieve market acceptance among physicians, patients or healthcare payers, we may not be able to generate anticipated revenue. This may limit our ability to generate anticipated revenue from our prior investment in assembly lines and other resources. Moreover, even if we achieve commercial scale production and sales of our injectable drug delivery systems in combination with our customers’ injectable therapies, such customers may face indirect competition from companies who develop and market other brand name, biosimilar or generic injectable therapies as well as alternative treatments and delivery methods that compete with our customers’ drug-device combination products that utilize our products, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, our financial condition and/or cash flows. Most brand name injectable therapies will face future competition from generic or biosimilar therapies, which could significantly reduce their commercial viability. Brand name injectable therapies will usually become exposed to competition from generic or biosimilar rivals at some time after their regulatory approval and commercial launch. The average selling price and market share of brand name injectable therapies can be significantly diminished following the introduction of generic or biosimilar competition. These factors may result in our customers using our products with their brand name injectable therapies seeking to withdraw such injectable therapy from the market, or change market tactics in a way that makes the use of our products cost prohibitive. This may result in the termination of supply contracts and the significant loss of revenue. Our debt obligations include covenants restricting our business which may adversely affect us. On March 12, 2014, Unilife Medical Solutions, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, or the Borrower, entered into a Credit Agreement, or the OrbiMed Credit Agreement, with ROS Acquisition Offshore LP, or the Lender. Pursuant to and subject to the terms of the OrbiMed Credit Agreement, the Lender agreed to provide term loans to the Borrower in the aggregate principal amount of up to $60 million. A first tranche loan of $40 million was drawn on the closing date of the loan and a further two tranches each of $10 million have been committed by the Lender and will be funded on each of December 15, 2014 and June 15, 2015, subject to and in accordance with the terms of the OrbiMed Credit Agreement. The interest rate is 9.25% plus the greater of the three month LIBO Rate (as defined in the OrbiMed Credit Agreement) or 1.0%. Unless the loan facility is otherwise terminated earlier pursuant to the terms of the OrbiMed Credit Agreement, the Borrower is required to repay in full the unpaid principal amount of the loans drawn down, together with all accrued and unpaid interest thereon plus a 6.0% repayment premium on March 12, 2020. The Borrower can make voluntary repayments at any time of any unpaid principal amount of the loans, plus a 6.0% repayment premium. The Borrower must make mandatory prepayments in certain prescribed circumstances, including, without limitation, certain dispositions of assets and certain casualty events. In such events, the Borrower must prepay to Lender 100% of the net cash proceeds received. The obligations of the Borrower under the OrbiMed Credit Agreement are: (i) secured by substantially all assets of the Borrower, and (ii) guaranteed by the Company and each of its subsidiaries. Such guarantees are secured by substantially all assets of the guarantors. The security interests granted by Borrower, the Company, Unilife Cross Farm LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, or Cross Farm, UMSL and Unitract Syringe Pty Limited, or Unitract Syringe, are evidenced by, among other things, a Pledge and Security Agreement, a Mortgage and Security Agreement and a General Security Deed. 20 Table of Contents The OrbiMed Credit Agreement contains certain customary covenants, including among other things, covenants relating to financial performance, liquidity targets and the retention of certain members of management. The OrbiMed Credit Agreement also contains covenants that, among other things, require us to obtain consent from the Lender prior to paying dividends, making certain investments, incurring debt or liens (with certain exceptions), changing the nature of our business, assuming or guaranteeing the indebtedness of another entity or individual, selling or otherwise disposing of a substantial portion of our assets, or merging or consolidating with another entity. A breach of any of the covenants in the OrbiMed Credit Agreement could result in a default under that agreement. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, a default interest rate of 14.25% per annum plus the greater of three-month LIBO Rate or 1.0% shall apply during the existence of a default. There is also a risk that the Lender could obtain rights to the secured assets in the event we default on our obligations under the OrbiMed Credit Agreement. Additionally, the Lender could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the OrbiMed Credit Agreement to be immediately due and payable, and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. In addition, on October 20, 2010, Cross Farm entered into a Loan Agreement with Metro Bank, as amended in connection with the OrbiMed Credit Agreement on March 12, 2014, or the Metro Bank Loan. The Metro Bank Loan is secured by a mortgage lien and a continuing security interest in Cross Farm’s personal property, and contains certain customary covenants, including the maintenance of $2.4 million of restricted cash that must remain in cash deposits (on which Metro Bank has a first priority security interest). Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the agreement evidencing the Metro Bank Loan, there is a risk that Metro Bank could obtain rights to the secured assets. Additionally, Metro Bank could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the Metro Bank Loan to be immediately due and payable. Furthermore, on or about December 17, 2010, Keystone Redevelopment Group, LLC made a loan to Cross Farm in the original principal amount of $2.25 million which was secured by a mortgage lien. Keystone Redevelopment Group, LLC assigned the loan and mortgage, or the Keystone/CFA Loan, to Commonwealth Financing Authority. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the agreements evidencing the Keystone/CFA Loan, there is a risk that Commonwealth Financing Authority could obtain rights to the mortgaged property. There are cross-defaults in the OrbiMed Credit Agreement, Metro Bank Loan and Keystone/CFA Loan, so that a default under one agreement could trigger a default under the others. Metro Bank, the Lender under the OrbiMed Credit Agreement, Keystone Redevelopment Group, LLC and Commonwealth Financing Authority are parties to an intercreditor agreement. If we are unable to obtain the next two tranches of loans under the OrbiMed Credit Agreement and we are unable to secure additional funding through other sources such as debt or equity offerings, our ability to continue operations could be adversely effected. Pursuant to and subject to the terms of the OrbiMed Credit Agreement, the Lender agreed to provide term loans to the Borrower in the aggregate principal amount of up to $60 million. A first tranche loan of $40 million was drawn on the closing date of the loan and a further two tranches each of $10 million have been committed by the Lender and will be funded on each of December 15, 2014 and June 15, 2015, subject to and in accordance with the terms of the OrbiMed Credit Agreement. The OrbiMed Credit Agreement provides that the Lender’s commitment to extend credit for the additional two tranches of loans are conditioned upon our ability to comply with customary representations and warranties and covenants in the OrbiMed Credit Agreement, which include, among other things, covenants relating to financial performance, liquidity targets and the retention of certain members of management. Our ability to comply with the covenants in the OrbiMed Credit Agreement may be affected by events beyond our control. In an event of default of the covenants in the OrbiMed Credit Agreement, we may be unable to receive the further loan commitments from the Lender. If we are unable to obtain the remaining loans under the OrbiMed Credit Agreement and we are unable to secure additional funding through other sources such as debt or equity offerings, our ability to continue operations could be adversely effected. 21 Table of Contents We may need additional funding to meet our capital needs. Such funding may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, and may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. We may need to obtain additional funding for our research and development, capital and general and administrative expenses. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to raise additional funding, if needed, on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders will be reduced, our stockholders may experience additional dilution in net book value, and such equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. In addition, because our shares of common stock are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange, or the ASX, in the form of CHESS Depositary Interests, or CDIs, we are also limited in the amount of funds that we can raise through the issuance of equity securities without stockholder approval. Furthermore, on August 1, 2014, we issued 5,808,800 shares of common stock and raised $12.4 million under the Controlled Equity Offering Sales Agreement, or the Sales Agreement, pursuant to which we, from time to time, issued and sold shares of common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $45.0 million. This capital raise in August 2014 was the full remaining amount available for sale under the Sales Agreement. As a result, we have completed use of the facility available under the Sales Agreement. If we are unable to secure additional funding through other sources such as equity offerings, our ability to continue operations could be adversely effected. We may need additional funding to meet our capital needs and our debt obligations include covenants which may limit our ability to raise capital. The OrbiMed Credit Agreement and the Metro Bank Loan contain certain restrictive covenants. The OrbiMed Credit Agreement contains certain customary covenants, including among other things, covenants relating to financial performance and liquidity targets. The OrbiMed Credit Agreement contains covenants that, among other things, require us to obtain consent from the Lender prior to incurring certain indebtedness or assuming or guaranteeing the indebtedness of another entity or individual. Moreover, the Metro Bank Loan is secured by a mortgage lien and a continuing security interest in Cross Farm’s personal property, and contains certain customary covenants, including the maintenance of $2.4 million of restricted cash that must remain in cash deposits (on which Metro Bank has a first priority security interest). If we raise additional funds from debt financing, these restrictive covenants may limit our ability to raise capital from debt financing, if at all. If we are unable comply with such covenants or obtain a waiver from our lenders, then it may be more difficult for us to operate our business. We have received an audit report on our fiscal year 2014 consolidated financial statements that includes an explanatory paragraph stating that our recurring losses from operations and limited cash resources raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The continuation of our Company as a going concern is dependent upon our attaining and maintaining profitable operations, generating continued cash payments from customers under new or existing contracts and/or raising additional capital. Our independent registered public accounting firm included, in their audit report on our consolidated financial statements for fiscal year 2014, an explanatory paragraph regarding the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements contain additional note disclosures describing our liquidity. Our liquidity is highly dependent on our available financing facilities and our ability to improve our financial condition. Our failure to obtain new or additional financing could impair our ability to both serve our existing customer base and develop prospective customers and could result in our failure to continue to operate as a going concern. The uncertainty regarding our ability to continue as a going concern may have an adverse effect on our customer and supplier relationships. Our relationships with our existing and prospective customers and suppliers are predicated on the belief that we will continue to operate as a going concern. Certain of our existing customers may terminate their agreements 22 Table of Contents with us and certain of our prospective customers may not enter into agreements with us if there is uncertainty regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. This may have an adverse effect on our ability to grow our revenue, which is a key component of our plan to continue as a going concern. Current and future suppliers may be less likely to grant us credit, resulting in a negative impact on our working capital and cash flows. We may face significant uncertainty in the industry due to government healthcare reform. The healthcare industry in the United States is subject to fundamental changes due to the ongoing healthcare reform and the political, economic and regulatory influences. In March 2010, comprehensive healthcare reform legislation was signed into law in the United States through the passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act. Among other initiatives, the legislation provides for a 2.3% annual excise tax on the sales of certain medical devices in the United States, commencing in January 2013. A manufacturer of a taxable medical device may, in certain circumstances, sell a taxable medical device tax-free for use by the purchaser for further manufacture (or for resale by the purchaser to a second purchaser for further manufacture), or for export (or for resale for export). We believe that the 2.3% annual excise tax is not applicable to us because our products are sold to our customers as components for further assembly by our customers. However, we cannot give assurances that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service will treat the sale of our products to our customers for use in their drug-device combination products as tax-free sales. Accordingly, this enacted excise tax may adversely affect our operating expenses and results of operations. In addition, various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. We cannot predict with certainty what healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the state level, or what the ultimate effect of federal healthcare reform or any future legislation or regulation may have on us or on our customers’ purchasing decisions regarding our products and services. Some companies we may utilize for the supply of components are also competitors, and they could elect to cease supply relationships with us in the future for competitive reasons. Some companies we may utilize for the supply of components for our proprietary product platforms also develop and market their own products that compete with ours. These companies may elect to cease supply relationships with us in the future for competitive reasons. This may disrupt our supply chain, cause difficulties in the qualification of new sources of supply and impair our ability to supply customer orders. Such events may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, our financial condition and/or cash flows. The injectable drug delivery systems industry is very competitive. The market for injectable drug delivery systems is highly competitive. We compete against many companies, both public and private, that range in size from small, highly focused businesses to large diversified multinational manufacturers of medical devices and healthcare equipment. Our larger competitors have greater financial and human resources, distribution channels and sales and marketing capabilities than we do. Additionally, many of our competitors focus on the production of commodity components such as glass barrels or elastomers. As such, many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies commonly purchase glass-based components from one supplier and elastomer components from another supplier. Other larger competitors compete with us in offering complete injectable drug delivery systems. We are also subject to competition from our customers. In particular, our customers can decide to develop their own injectable drug delivery systems internally. Moreover, we may face indirect competition from companies who develop and market alternative treatments and delivery methods that compete with our customers’ drug-device combination products that utilize our products. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to distinguish our company and our products from our competitors and their products. Factors affecting our competitive position include, for example, product 23 Table of Contents design and performance, product safety, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, success and timing of new product development and introductions and intellectual property protection. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights or may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection in the United States and other countries of the intellectual property relating to or incorporated into our technology and products. Though granted patents expire at varying dates based on the filing date of the related application, the life of patents relating to our product platforms extends through calendar year 2034. Pending and/or future filed patent applications covering relevant advancements in these technologies could extend well beyond that time period once granted. Our pending and future patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will provide us with any competitive advantage or adequate protection. In particular, the injectable drug delivery systems which we are developing and for which we have filed patent applications are relatively new inventions, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain patents on these inventions. Our issued and future patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar technology or products or limit the length of terms of patent protection we may have for our technology or products. Changes in patent laws or their interpretation in the United States and other countries could also diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. In addition, the legal systems of certain countries do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents, and the laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. As a result, our patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing technology or products similar or identical to ours. In order to preserve and enforce our patent and other intellectual property rights, we may need to make claims or file lawsuits against third parties. This can entail significant costs to us and divert our management’s attention from developing and commercializing our technology or products. There also can be no assurance that third parties will not assert that our technology or products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or require us to pay substantial damages. If we are unsuccessful in defending ourselves against these types of claims, we may be required to do one or more of the following: • stop, delay or abandon our ongoing or planned commercialization of the product that is the subject of the suit; • attempt to obtain a license to sell or use the relevant technology or substitute technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; • redesign the product that uses the relevant technology; or • pay substantial damages which could adversely impact our financial condition and ability to execute our business plan and operations. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. In addition to patented technology, we rely on our unpatented proprietary technology, trade secrets, processes and know-how. We generally seek to protect this information by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors, contractors and third parties. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. To the extent that our employees, consultants, scientific advisors or contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. 24 Table of Contents We, as an FDA-registered medical device manufacturer and component supplier to our customers, are required to comply with cGMP for any products we supply to our customers for clinical or commercial use. If we fail to comply with cGMP for our manufacturing facility, our business and our results of operations would be harmed. Our quality management system, or QMS, is regularly audited by regulatory authorities for compliance with the requirements of, and certified to, ISO 13485, Medical Devices – Quality Management Systems – Requirements, for regulatory purposes, which is equivalent to Quality System Regulations, or QSR, for FDA compliance. As an FDA registered medical device manufacturer, we are periodically audited by the FDA pursuant to the QSRs and cGMP with the last audit occurring in 2013 where there were no formal findings. In addition, our QMS is regularly audited by existing and prospective customers. If we do not continue to have our QMS in compliance with ISO certifications or receive major non-conformances by the FDA or other foreign regulatory authorities during audits of our QSRs and cGMP, we may experience regulatory related delays as a result. If we do not comply with cGMP when supplying any products to our customers for clinical or commercial use, our failure could have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. If we experience interruptions in our manufacturing operations, our business will suffer. We currently manufacture our products at our York, Pennsylvania facility, with no alternate facilities available. If we were to experience a manufacturing disruption as a result of damage or destruction of the building, equipment failure, acts of God or other force majeure events, our ability to satisfy our obligations to our customers would be adversely affected, which would harm our business and our results of operations. The sale of any of our proprietary product platforms could be stopped, delayed or made less profitable if our manufacturing facility fails to provide us with sufficient quantities of our proprietary product platforms or fails to do so at acceptable quality levels or prices and in a timely manner. To manufacture our proprietary product platforms in the quantities and at the price that we believe would be required to meet anticipated market demand of future customers, or in the event of increased orders from our current customers, we may need to increase manufacturing capacity, which could involve significant challenges. In addition, any expansion to our existing commercial-scale manufacturing capabilities may require us to invest substantial funds and hire and retain technical personnel who have the necessary manufacturing experience. We may not successfully complete any manufacturing scale-up activities required to increase existing manufacturing capabilities in a timely manner, or at all. Product defects could adversely affect the results of our operations. The design, manufacture and marketing of our products involve certain inherent risks. Manufacturing or design defects, unanticipated use of our products, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of the product can lead to injury or other adverse events. These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products (either voluntary or required by the FDA or similar governmental authorities in other countries), and could result, in certain cases, in the removal of a product from the market. Any recall could result in significant costs, the loss of a customer, negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products. Personal injuries relating to the use of our products can also result in product liability claims being brought against us. In some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in the launch of new products. Because our proprietary product platforms, in connection with our customers’ injectable therapies, will be drug-device combination products, we also face additional risks of recalls that could be caused by our customers’ therapies. Any such recall could similarly result in significant costs, negative publicity and damage to our 25 Table of Contents reputation, even if caused by a customer’s products. While any such recall would give rise to an event of default under our customer agreement and remove any exclusivity provided to our customer, there may be significant costs and delay in finding a substitute customer to sell into the affected market, if one can be found at all. We may be sued for product liability, which could adversely affect our business. The design, manufacture and marketing of our products carry a significant risk of product liability claims. We may be held liable if any product we develop and sell to our customers causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale or consumer use. In addition, since our products will be used in our customers’ drug-device combination products, we may be sued for product liability even if the claimed injury is caused by our customers’ injectable therapies and not our products. We carry product liability insurance and have recently increased our coverage to $10 million. However, if there were to be product liability claims against us, our insurance may be insufficient to cover the expense of defending against such claims, or may be insufficient to pay or settle such claims. Furthermore, we may be unable to obtain adequate product liability insurance coverage for sales of any of our products or our customers’ drug-device combination products that utilize our products. If such insurance is insufficient to protect us, our results of operations will suffer. If any product liability claim is made against us, our reputation and future sales will be damaged, even if we have adequate insurance coverage. We also intend to seek product liability insurance for any products that we may develop or acquire and any of our products that are used in combination with our customers’ injectable therapies in the future. There is no guarantee that such coverage will be available when we seek it or at a reasonable cost to us. Our relationships with customers will be subject to applicable state, federal and healthcare laws and regulations, which could result in criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings. Healthcare providers, physicians and third-party payers will play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any drug-device combination products for which our customers obtain marketing approval. Our future arrangements with our customers may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may affect the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we would market, sell and distribute our products. Although we do not and will not control referrals of healthcare services or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payers, federal and state healthcare laws and regulations may be applicable to our business. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties are compliant with applicable healthcare laws and regulations will involve the expenditure of appropriate, and possibly significant, resources. Nonetheless, it is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. We cannot give any assurance that we will be able to complete the development and sale of new injectable drug delivery systems in response to changes in medical technologies, industry standards and the emerging needs of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. A significant element of our strategy focuses on developing a broad portfolio of injectable drug delivery systems that deliver greater benefits to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and ultimately health-care providers and patients. These new injectable drug delivery systems, including customized products, are a response to changes in medical technologies, industry standards and the emerging needs of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Other device companies, and pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, are also attempting to develop alternative therapies or drug administration systems such as needle-free or intradermal injection technology for the treatment or 26 Table of Contents prevention of various diseases. Our success will depend on our ability to continue developing and selling new injectable drug delivery systems to meet the changing conditions of the marketplace. The development of these injectable drug delivery systems requires significant research and development and expenditures of capital. There can be no assurance that our development efforts will result in successful new products that can compete with new or improved products, processes or technologies by other companies. We may encounter difficulties managing our growth, which could materially harm our business. We have rapidly expanded our operations, including our research and development, product development, regulatory, manufacturing, sales, marketing and administrative functions. This expansion has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. To manage our growth and to develop and sell our products will require continued investment in procedures and systems relating to operational, financial and quality control processes, and continue to expand, train and manage our employee base. In addition, we will need to manage relationships with various manufacturers, suppliers, customers and other organizations. Our failure to accomplish any of these tasks could materially harm our business. We will continue to incur significant costs as a result of being a public company in both the United States and Australia. We are subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. Being a public reporting company in the United States entails significant expense, including costs required for us to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, because our shares of common stock are also listed on the ASX, in the form of CDIs, we are also required to file financial information and make certain other filings with the ASX. Our status as a reporting company in both the United States and Australia makes some activities more time-consuming and costly and causes us to incur legal, accounting and other expenses that are higher than those that are typically incurred by companies that are subject to reporting requirements in only one jurisdiction. The costs of raw materials have a significant impact on the level of expenses that we incur. If the prices of raw materials and related factors such as energy prices increase, and if we cannot pass those price increases on to our customers, our results of operations and financial condition would suffer. We use a number of raw materials including polymer plastics. The prices of many of these raw materials, such as those sourced from petroleum-based raw materials, are cyclical and volatile. While we would generally attempt to pass along increased costs to our customers in the form of sales price increases, we might not be able to do so for competitive or contract-related reasons or otherwise. If we cannot set or adjust our prices to reflect the costs of our raw materials, our results of operations and our financial condition will suffer. Disruptions in the supply of key raw materials and difficulties in the supplier qualification process could adversely impact our operations. We employ a supply chain management strategy which seeks to source components and materials from a number of established third party companies. Where possible, we seek to establish more than one contract for the supply of a particular component, material or service. However, there is a risk that our supply lines may be interrupted in the event of a supplier production problem, material recall or financial difficulties. If one of our suppliers is unable to supply materials required for production of our products or our strategies for managing these risks are unsuccessful, we may be unable to complete the production of sufficient quantities of product to fulfill customer orders, or complete the qualification of new replacement materials for some programs in time to meet future production requirements. Prolonged disruptions in the supply of any of our key raw materials or components, and difficulty in completing qualification of new sources of supply or in implementing the use of replacement materials or new sources of supply could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, our financial condition or cash flows. 27 Table of Contents Impairment of our goodwill, which represents a significant portion of our total assets, would adversely affect our operating results and we may never realize the full value of our goodwill. As of June 30, 2014, we had $11.8 million of goodwill on our balance sheet, which represented 14.0% of our total assets. We recorded this goodwill primarily from our historical acquisition activities. Goodwill is subject to, at a minimum, an annual impairment assessment of its carrying value. Any material impairment of our goodwill would likely have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates can affect the value of our assets and liabilities, and the amount of our revenue and expenses. We do not currently try to mitigate our exposure to currency exchange rate risks by using hedging transactions. We cannot predict future changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and as a result, we may suffer losses as a result of future fluctuations. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel and the loss of them could adversely affect our business. Our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly Mr. Alan Shortall, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Dr. Ramin Mojdeh, our President and Chief Operating Officer, to provide strategic direction, manage our operations and maintain a cohesive and stable environment. Although we have employment agreements with Mr. Shortall and Dr. Mojdeh, as well as incentive compensation plans that provide various economic incentives for them to remain with us, these agreements and incentives may not be sufficient to retain them. Our ability to operate successfully and manage our potential future growth also depends significantly upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled and qualified research, technical, clinical, regulatory, sales, marketing, managerial and financial personnel. We face intense competition for such personnel, and we may not be able to attract, retain and motivate these individuals. The loss of our executive officers or other key personnel for any reason or our inability to hire, retain and motivate additional qualified personnel in the future could prevent us from sustaining or growing our business. Risk Factors Related to Our Shares of Common Stock The trading price of our shares of common stock may fluctuate significantly. The price of our shares of common stock may be volatile, which means that it could decline substantially within a short period of time. The trading price of the shares may fluctuate, and investors may experience a decrease in the value of the shares that they hold, sometimes regardless of our operating performance or prospects. The trading price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including the following: • future announcements concerning our business and that of our competitors including in particular, the progress of our sales of our injectable drug delivery systems; • regulatory developments; • quarterly variations in operating results; • negative reporting about us in the press; • introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; • acquisition or loss of significant customers, distributors or suppliers; • business acquisitions or divestitures; • fluctuations of investor interest in the injectable drug delivery systems industry; and 28 Table of Contents • fluctuations in the economy, world political events or general market conditions. If there are substantial sales of our shares of common stock, our share price could decline. As of September 8, 2014, we had 109,377,837 shares of common stock outstanding. All of those shares of common stock other than 10,373,426 shares held by our affiliates are freely tradable under the Securities Act. Shares held by our affiliates are eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144. If our stockholders sell a large number of shares of common stock, or the short interest position increases significantly, the market may perceive that our stockholders might sell a large number of shares, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly. In addition, as of September 8, 2014, 5,972,414 shares of our common stock are subject to outstanding stock options and warrants. We have registered the shares issuable upon the exercise of options granted under our 2009 Stock Incentive Plan. In addition, we have effective registration statements covering the resale of shares of our common stock that are issuable upon the exercise of our remaining options and warrants. If these options and warrants are exercised and the holders choose to sell their shares, such sales could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. For the foreseeable future, we do not intend to declare or pay any dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain our earnings, if any, to finance the development and expansion of our business and product lines. Any future decision to declare or pay dividends will be made by our board of directors and will depend upon a number of factors including our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, under our current bank financing agreements, we are not permitted to pay cash dividends without the prior written consent of the lender. We may be subject to arbitrage risks. Investors may seek to profit by exploiting the difference, if any, in the price of our shares of common stock on the NASDAQ and our CDIs on the ASX. Such arbitrage activities could cause our stock price in the market with the higher value to decrease to the price set by the market with the lower value. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and the Delaware General Corporation Law may delay or deter a change of control transaction. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of deterring takeovers, such as those provisions authorizing our board of directors to issue, from time to time, any series of preferred stock and fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of such series of preferred stock; prohibiting stockholders from acting by written consent in lieu of a meeting; requiring advance notice of stockholder intention to put forth director nominees or bring up other business at a stockholders’ meeting; prohibiting stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; requiring a 66 2/3% majority stockholder approval in order for stockholders to amend our bylaws or adopt new bylaws; and providing that, subject to the rights of preferred shares, the number of directors is to be fixed exclusively by our board of directors. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, from which we did not elect to opt out, provides that if a holder acquires 15% or more of our stock without prior approval of our board of directors, that holder will be subject to certain restrictions on its ability to acquire us within three years. These provisions may delay or deter a change of control of us, and could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 29 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 