Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial conditions or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. There can be no assurance that actual results will not materially differ from expectations. Important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. With respect to the proposed Transaction, these factors include, but are not limited to: the risk that more than 88% of 57th Street stockholders will validly tender and won’t validly withdraw their shares of common stock pursuant to and prior to the expiration of the tender offer; the risk that governmental and regulatory review of the tender offer documents may delay the transaction or result in the inability of the transaction to be consummated by May 31, 2011 and the length of time necessary to consummate the proposed transaction; changing legislation and regulatory environments; changing interpretations of generally accepted accounting principles; continued compliance with government regulations; the risk that a condition to closing of the transaction may not be satisfied; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the anticipated benefits of the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; a reduction in industry profit margin; the inability to continue the development of the Crumbs brand; the ability to meet the NASDAQ Stock Market listing standards, including having the requisite number of round lot holders or shareholders; a lower return on investment; the inability to manage rapid growth; requirements or changes affecting the business in which Crumbs is engaged; general economic conditions; and the diversion of management time on transaction-related issues. These risks, as well as other risks associated with the transaction, will be more fully discussed in the Schedule TO that will be filed with the SEC in connection with the proposed Transaction. Risks Associated With Our Business We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently incorporated development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have any operations or an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, the focus of which is to acquire through a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization, exchangeable share transaction or other similar business transaction, one or more operating businesses or assets that we have not yet identified. We have no present revenue and will not generate any revenues or income until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business transaction. We do not know when or if a business transaction will occur. The report of our independent registered public accountants on our financial statements includes an explanatory paragraph stating that our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on the consummation of the Transaction. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from our inability to consummate the Transaction or our ability to continue as a going concern. 12 If we are unable to consummate a business transaction, our public stockholders will be forced to wait until August 19, 2011, the full 15 months before receiving distributions from our trust account. If we do not consummate a business transaction by August 19, 2011, we shall (i) cease all operations except for the purposes of winding up, (ii) redeem 100% of our public shares of common stock for a per share pro rata portion of the trust account (including interest, but net of any taxes), subject to the requirements of applicable law and (iii) as promptly as possible following such redemption, dissolve and liquidate the balance of our net assets to our remaining stockholders. If we redeem such shares, such redemption must comply with the applicable provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, including Section 160 thereof, governing rights of redemption. Upon the termination of our corporate existence, the balance of our net assets will be distributed to our remaining stockholders. Accordingly, if our plan to redeem 100% of our shares of common stock sold in the Offering is not consummated for any reason, compliance with Delaware law may require that we submit a plan of dissolution and liquidation to our then existing stockholders for approval prior to the distribution of the proceeds held in our trust account. In that case, investors may be forced to wait beyond August 19, 2011, before the liquidation proceeds of our trust account become available to them, and they receive the return of their pro rata portion of the proceeds from our trust account. Except for the above redemption, we have no obligation to return funds to investors prior to the date of our liquidation unless we consummate a business transaction prior thereto and only then in cases where investors have sought to redeem their shares. Only upon our liquidation, if no such redemption occurs, will public stockholders be entitled to liquidation distributions if we are unable to complete a business transaction. We may not be able to consummate a business transaction within the required timeframe, in which case we will be forced to redeem our public stockholders and liquidate. Our sponsor, officers and directors have agreed that we will only have until August 19, 2011, to consummate our initial business transaction. If we do not consummate a business transaction by August 19, 2011, we shall (i) cease all operations except for the purposes of winding up, (ii) redeem 100% of our public shares of common stock for a per share pro rata portion of the trust account (including interest, but net of any taxes), subject to the requirements of applicable law and (iii) as promptly as possible following such redemption, dissolve and liquidate the balance of our net assets to our remaining stockholders. We may not be able to find a suitable target business by August 19, 2011. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any prospective target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of a business transaction. If we are forced to redeem or liquidate before the completion of a business transaction and distribute the trust account, our public stockholders may receive less than $10.00 per share (the initial public offering price per unit) and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business transaction within the prescribed time frame and are forced to cease operations and ultimately liquidate our assets, the amount of either of the (i) per share redemption or (ii) per share liquidation distribution may, since a portion of the over-allotment option was exercised, be less than $10.00 because of the expenses of the Offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking a business transaction. If we are unable to complete a business transaction and have expended all of the net proceeds of the Offering, other than the proceeds deposited in the trust account (net of any taxes), the initial (i) per-share redemption or (ii) per-share liquidation amounts may be less than $10.00. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants which will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business transaction. Public stockholders may receive less than their pro rata share of the trust account upon redemption due to claims of creditors. Our placing of funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, service providers (other than our independent accountants), prospective target businesses or other entities we engage execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, such parties may not execute such agreements, or even if they execute such agreements they may not be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account, including, but not limited to, fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility or other similar claims, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case in order to gain advantage with respect to a claim against our assets, including the funds held in the trust account. If any third party refused to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, we would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us if we chose not to engage such third party and evaluate if such engagement would be in the best interest of our stockholders if such third party refused to waive such claims. 13 Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refused to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a service provider willing to execute a waiver. In addition, such entities may not agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and may seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Upon redemption of our public shares if we are unable to complete a business transaction within the required timeframe or upon the exercise of a redemption right in connection with a business transaction, we will be required to provide for payment of claims of creditors which were not waived that may be brought against us within the subsequent 10 years prior to redemption. Accordingly, the (i) per share redemption price or (ii) per share liquidation price could be less than the $9.98 per share held in the trust account, plus interest (net of any taxes), due to claims of such creditors. In addition, Mark D. Klein, our chairman, chief executive officer and president, and Paul D. Lapping, our chief financial officer, treasurer, secretary and director, have agreed that they will be liable to us if and to the extent any claims by a vendor for services rendered or products sold to us, or a prospective target business with which we have discussed entering into a transaction agreement reduce the amounts in the trust account to below $9.98 per share, except as to any claims by a third party who executed a waiver of any and all rights to seek access to the trust account and except as to any claims under our indemnity of the underwriters of the Offering against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act. Moreover, in the event that an executed wavier is deemed to be unenforceable against a third party, Messrs. Klein and Lapping will not be responsible to the extent of any liability for such third party claims. We have not, however, asked Messrs. Klein and Lapping to reserve for such indemnification obligations. Messrs. Klein and Lapping may not be able to satisfy those obligations. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the funds held in our trust account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included as an asset in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we may not be able to return $9.98 per share to our public stockholders. Our directors may decide not to enforce Messrs. Klein’s and Lapping’s indemnification obligations, resulting in a reduction in the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public stockholders. In the event that the proceeds in the trust account are reduced below $9.98 per share and Messrs. Klein and Lapping assert that they are unable to satisfy their obligations or that they have no indemnification obligations related to a particular claim, our independent directors, if any, would determine whether to take legal action against Messrs. Klein and Lapping to enforce their indemnification obligations. While we currently expect that our independent directors would take legal action on our behalf against Messrs. Klein and Lapping to enforce their indemnification obligations to us, it is possible that our independent directors in exercising their business judgment may choose not to do so in any particular instance. If our directors choose not to enforce these indemnification obligations, the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public stockholders may be reduced below $9.98 per share. If we seek stockholder approval of our business transaction and holders of more than 88% of our public shares indicate their intention to exercise their redemption rights, our sponsor, directors, officers, advisors and their affiliates could affect the outcome of the consummation of our business transaction if they elect to purchase shares from stockholders who would otherwise choose to exercise their redemption rights. Solely in the event we seek stockholder approval of our business transaction, and we do not conduct redemptions in connection with our business transaction pursuant to the tender offer rules, any privately negotiated transaction to purchase shares from a stockholder who would otherwise redeem their shares for a per share pro-rata portion of the trust account would include a contractual acknowledgement that such stockholder, although still the record holder of our shares is no longer the beneficial owner thereof and therefore agrees not to exercise their redemption rights. In the event that our sponsor, officers, directors, advisors or their respective affiliates purchase shares in privately negotiated transactions from public stockholders who have already elected to exercise their redemption rights, such selling stockholders would be required to revoke their prior elections to redeem their shares. This will have the effect of reducing the number of shares redeemed, making it more likely that the required stockholder vote needed to approve the business transaction is achieved, and therefore making it more likely that we would be able to consummate our initial business transaction. 14 None of our sponsor, officers, directors, advisors or their respective affiliates or any third parties has agreed to purchase any such shares, and the failure to so agree at the applicable time could adversely impair our ability to consummate a business transaction. Moreover, even if our sponsor, officers, directors, advisors and their respective affiliates were to undertake such purchases, such purchases could be subject to limitations under applicable securities laws and regulations, including Regulation M and regulations regarding tender offers. The inability of such persons to effect such purchases could adversely impair our ability to consummate a business transaction. If we submit our business transaction to our stockholders for approval, we may use funds in our trust account to purchase, directly or indirectly, shares from holders thereof who have indicated an intention to redeem their shares. Solely if we submit our business transaction to our stockholders for approval, and we do not conduct redemptions in connection with our business transaction pursuant to the tender offer rules, if holders of shares sold in the Offering indicate an intention to seek to redeem their shares, we may privately negotiate arrangements to provide for the purchase of such shares at the closing of the business transaction using funds held in the trust account. The purpose of such arrangements would be to (i) increase the likelihood of satisfaction of the requirement that no more than 88% of our outstanding shares of common stock demand to redeem their shares, (ii) increase the likehood of obtaining stockholder approval of the business transaction or (iii) satisfy a minimum valuation requirement, where it appears that such requirements would otherwise not be met. This may result in the consummation of a business transaction that may not otherwise have been possible. Additionally, as a consequence of such purchases, · the funds in our trust account that are so used will not be available to us after the business transaction; and · the public ‘‘float’’ of our common stock may be reduced and the number of beneficial holders of our securities may be reduced, which may make it difficult to obtain the quotation, listing or trading of our securities on a national securities exchange. You will not have any rights or interests in funds from the trust account, except under certain limited circumstances. Our public stockholders will be entitled to receive funds from the trust account only upon the earlier to occur of: (i) our redemption of 100% of our public shares of common stock for a per share pro rata portion of the trust account (including interest but net of any taxes), subject to the requirements of applicable law, (ii) our consummation of a business transaction, and then only in connection with those shares of our common stock that such stockholder properly elected to redeem, subject to the restrictions described in the prospectus or (iii) our liquidation (if redemption does not occur). In no other circumstances will a stockholder have any right or interest of any kind in the trust account. We do not intend to establish an audit committee or a compensation committee until the consummation of a business transaction. Our board of directors intends to establish an audit committee and a compensation committee upon consummation of a business transaction. At that time our board of directors intends to adopt charters for these committees. Prior to such time we do not intend to establish either one. Accordingly, there will not be a separate committee comprised of some members of our board of directors with specialized accounting and financial knowledge to meet, analyze and discuss solely financial matters concerning prospective target businesses nor will there be a separate committee to review the reasonableness of expense reimbursement requests by anyone other than our board of directors, which includes persons who may seek such reimbursements. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of the Offering were intended to be used to complete a business transaction with an unidentified target business, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since our securities are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 from proceeds of the Offering and have filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the Commission, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies, such as Rule 419 of the Securities Act. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules, such as a requirement that we consummate a business transaction with a target whose fair market value is equal to 80% of the proceeds in our trust account. 15 If the net proceeds of the Offering not being placed in the trust account are insufficient to allow us to operate until August 19, 2011, we may not be able to complete an initial business transaction. From the date of our consummation of the Offering, approximately $600,000 of the net proceeds of the Offering not held in the trust account were available to us through August 19, 2011, to cover expenses incurred in connection with a business transaction or to cover expenses in connection with our liquidation if we do not complete a business transaction during that time. These amounts may prove to be insufficient especially if a portion of the available proceeds is used to make a down payment or pay exclusivity or similar fees in connection with a business transaction, or if we expend a significant portion of the available proceeds in pursuit of a business transaction that is not consummated. We could use a portion of the amount not held in trust to pay due diligence costs in connection with a potential business transaction or to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We could also use a portion of these funds as a down payment, “reverse break-up fee” (a provision in designed to compensate the target for any breach by the buyer which results in a failure to close the transaction), or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision designed to keep target businesses from “shopping” around for transactions with others on terms more favorable to such target businesses) with respect to a particular proposed business transaction, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into such an agreement with a prospective target where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise) or if we agree to a reverse break-up fee and subsequently were required to pay such fee as a result of our breach of a merger or other agreement or if our costs are otherwise higher than expected, we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, any other potential target businesses. If we do not have sufficient proceeds available to fund our expenses, we may be forced to obtain additional financing, either from our management or the sponsor or from third parties, to continue operating. We may not be able to obtain additional financing and our sponsor and management are not obligated to provide any additional financing. If we do not have sufficient proceeds and cannot find additional financing, we may be forced to dissolve and liquidate prior to consummating a business transaction. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business transaction. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, our activities may be restricted, including: · restrictions on the nature of our investments; and · restrictions on the issuance of securities, each of which may make it difficult for us to complete a business transaction. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: · registration as an investment company; · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. In order not to be regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, unless we can qualify for an exclusion, we must ensure that we are engaged primarily in a business other than investing, reinvesting or trading of securities and that our activities do not include investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading "investment securities" constituting more than 40% of our assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. Our business will be to identify and consummate a business transaction and thereafter to operate the acquired business or assets for the long term. We do not plan to buy businesses or assets with a view to resale or profit from their resale. We do not plan to buy unrelated businesses or assets or to be a passive investor. We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act. To this end, the proceeds held in the trust account may only be invested in United States "government securities" within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act having a maturity of 180 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act. Pursuant to the trust agreement, the trustee is not permitted to invest in other securities or assets. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, and by having a business plan targeted at acquiring, growing and businesses for the long term (rather than on buying and selling businesses in the manner of a merchant bank or private equity fund), we intend to avoid being deemed an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act. The trust account is intended as a holding place for funds pending the earlier to occur of either: (i) the consummation of our primary business objective, which is a business transaction; or (ii) absent a business transaction, our return of the funds held in the trust account to our public stockholders as part of our redemption of public shares. If we do not invest the proceeds as discussed above, we may be deemed to be subject to the Investment Company Act. If we were deemed to be subject to the Investment Company Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense for which we have not accounted. 16 In certain circumstances, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors, thereby exposing itself and us to claims of punitive damages. If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to redeem 100% of our public shares of common stock for a per share pro rata portion of the trust account, in the event we do not consummate a business transaction by August 19, 2011, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached its fiduciary duty to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, thereby exposing itself and us to claims of punitive damages, by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them upon redemption of their shares. If we do not consummate a business transaction by August 19, 2011, our sponsor, officers and directors have agreed that we will (i) cease all operations except for the purposes of winding up, (ii) redeem 100% of our public shares of common stock for a per share pro rata portion of the trust account, plus a portion of the interest earned on the trust account but net of any taxes, subject to the requirements of Delaware General Corporation Law Section 160 and other applicable law and (iii) as promptly as possible following such redemption, dissolve and liquidate the balance of our net assets to our remaining stockholders. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them pursuant to a dissolution, and our redemption of 100% of the shares sold in the Offering may be deemed a liquidating distribution. If a corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. Because we will not be complying with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, as set forth above, a stockholder who received distributions in the redemption may be liable for the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder until the third anniversary of the dissolution. Although we are required to use our best efforts to have an effective registration statement covering the issuance of the shares of common stock underlying the warrants at the time that our warrant holders exercise their warrants, a registration statement may not be effective, in which case our warrant holders may not be able to exercise their warrants and therefore the warrants could expire worthless. Holders of our warrants will be able to exercise the warrants for cash only if we have an effective registration statement covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to such common stock and, even in the case of a cashless exercise which is permitted in certain circumstances, such shares of common stock are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities laws of the states in which the various holders of warrants reside. Although we have undertaken in the warrant agreement, and therefore have a contractual obligation, to use our best efforts to maintain an effective registration statement covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants following completion of the business transaction, and we intend to comply with our undertaking, we may not be able to do so. Factors such as an unexpected inability to remain current in our SEC reporting obligations or other material developments concerning our business could present difficulties in maintaining an effective registration statement and a current prospectus. Holders of warrants will not be entitled to a cash settlement for their warrants if we fail to have an effective registration statement or a current prospectus available relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants. The expiration of warrants prior to exercise would result in each unit holder paying the full unit purchase price solely for the shares of common stock underlying the unit. 17 International and political events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may enter into an initial business transaction with a non-U.S. entity and, accordingly, a significant portion of our post business transaction revenue may be derived from non-U.S. operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the countries in which we transact business. The occurrence of any of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Operations in countries other than the U.S. are subject to various risks peculiar to each country. With respect to any particular country, these risks may include: · expropriation and nationalization of our assets in that country; · political and economic instability; · civil unrest, acts of terrorism, force majeure, war, or other armed conflict; · natural disasters, including those related to earthquakes and flooding; · inflation; · currency fluctuations, devaluations, and conversion restrictions; · confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; · governmental activities that limit or disrupt markets, restrict payments, or limit the movement of funds; · governmental activities that may result in the deprivation of contract rights; and · governmental activities that may result in the inability to obtain or retain licenses required for operation. Due to the unsettled political conditions in many countries in which we may operate, our revenue and profits may be subject to the adverse consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest, strikes, currency controls, and governmental actions. Our facilities and our employees could come under threat of attack in some countries where we may operate. In addition, we may become subject to the risk related to loss of life of our personnel and our subcontractors in these areas. We are also subject to the risks that our employees, joint venture partners, and agents outside of the U.S. may fail to comply with applicable laws. Unlike most other blank check companies, we are not required to consider a target’s valuation when entering into or consummating our business transaction. Management’s unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective acquisition candidate, along with management’s financial interest in consummating an initial business transaction, may lead management to enter into an acquisition agreement that is not in the best interest of the our stockholders Most blank check companies are required to consummate their initial business combination with a target whose value is equal to at least 80% of the amount of money deposited in the trust account of the blank check company at the time of entry into a materially definitive agreement. Because we do not have the limitation that a target business have a minimum fair market enterprise value of the net assets held in the trust account (net of taxes and exclusive of any amounts subject to the exercise of redemption rights) at the time of our signing a definitive agreement in connection with our initial business transaction, we will have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective acquisition candidate. Investors will be relying on our management’s ability to identify business transactions, evaluate their merits, conduct or monitor diligence and conduct negotiations. Management’s unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective acquisition candidate, along with management’s financial interest in consummating an initial business transaction, may lead management to enter into an acquisition agreement that is not in the best interest of our stockholders. We may not obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm as to the fair market enterprise value of the target business or that the price we are paying for the business is fair to our stockholders. Unless we consummate a business transaction with an affiliated entity, we are not required to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm that either the target business we select has a certain fair market enterprise value at the time of our signing a definitive agreement in connection with our initial business transaction or that the price we are paying is fair to our stockholders unless our board of directors is not able to independently determine that a target business or businesses have a sufficient fair market enterprise value or there is a conflict of interest with respect to the transaction. The fair market enterprise value of such business will be determined by our board of directors based upon standards generally accepted by the financial community, such as actual and potential sales, earnings and cash flow and book value, and the price for which comparable businesses have recently been sold. If no opinion is obtained, our stockholders will be relying on the judgment or our board of directors. 18 Substantial resources could be expended in researching initial business transactions that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and consummate an initial business transaction. We anticipate the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and other third party fees and expenses. If we decide not to enter into an agreement with respect to a specific proposed initial business transaction we have investigated, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the business transaction for any number of reasons including those beyond our control. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and consummate a business transaction. Our ability to successfully effect a business transaction and to be successful thereafter will be dependent in large part upon the efforts of our key personnel, including our officers and directors. Our ability to successfully effect a business transaction is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. Our key personnel will also be officers, directors, key personnel and/or members of other entities, to whom we anticipate we will have access on an as needed basis, although such personnel may not be able to devote sufficient time, effort or attention to us when we need it. None of our key personnel, including our executive officers, have entered into employment or consultant agreements with us. Our officers and directors may allocate their time to other businesses, thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. These conflicts could impair our ability to consummate a business transaction. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business transaction. Certain of our executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. If our executive officers’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could impair our ability to consummate a business transaction. These conflicts may not be resolved in our favor. Our officers, directors and their affiliates currently are, and may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in business activities that are similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Certain of our officers, directors, advisors or their affiliates have been principals of, or affiliated or associated with, other blank check companies, and/or may in the future become, affiliated with additional entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Due to these existing affiliations, our officers and directors may have fiduciary obligations to present potential business opportunities to those entities prior to presenting them to us, which could cause additional conflicts of interest. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. These conflicts may not be resolved in our favor. Our management may negotiate employment or consulting agreements with a target business in connection with a particular business transaction. These agreements may provide for them to receive compensation following a business transaction and, as a result, may cause them to have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular business transaction is in the best interest of our public stockholders. Our management may not be able to remain with the company after the consummation of a business transaction unless they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with a business transaction. If, as a condition to a potential initial business transaction, our existing officers negotiate to be retained after the consummation of the business transaction, such negotiations may result in a conflict of interest. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business transaction and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to us after the consummation of the business transaction. While the personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business, the ability of such individuals to remain with us after the consummation of a business transaction will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business transaction. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the business transaction, we will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’s management and negotiate as part of the business transaction that our existing officers and directors remain if it is believed to be in the best interests of the combined company after the consummation of the business transaction. 19 We may engage in a business transaction with one or more target businesses that have relationships or are affiliated with our sponsor, directors or officers, which may raise potential conflicts. We may engage in a business transaction with one or more target businesses that have relationships or are affiliated (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act) with our sponsor, directors or officers, which may raise potential conflicts. Also, the completion of a business transaction between us and an entity owned by a business in which one of our directors or officers may have an interest could enhance their prospects for future business from such client. To minimize potential conflicts of interest, we have agreed not to consummate, and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we may not consummate, a business transaction with a target business that is affiliated with our sponsor, our directors, advisors or officers or any of our or their affiliates unless we obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm that is a member of FINRA that the business transaction is fair to our stockholders from a financial point of view. Since our sponsor will lose its entire investment in us if a business transaction is not consummated and may be required to pay costs associated with our liquidation and our officers and directors have significant financial interests in us, a conflict of interest may arise in determining whether a particular acquisition target is appropriate for our initial business transaction. Our sponsor owns 606,256 shares of our common stock (which were purchased for $25,000) that will be worthless if we do not consummate a business transaction. In addition, our sponsor has purchased warrants exercisable for our common stock (for $1,750,000), which will also be worthless if we do not consummate a business transaction. In addition, in the event we are forced to liquidate, our sponsor has agreed to advance us the entire amount of the funds necessary to complete such liquidation (currently anticipated to be no more than approximately $30,000) and has agreed not to seek repayment for such expenses. The personal and financial interests of our officers, directors and advisory board members may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business transaction and completing an initial business transaction. Consequently, the discretion of our officers and directors, in identifying and selecting a suitable target business transaction may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular initial business transaction are appropriate and in the best interest of our public stockholders. Since our officers and directors will lose their entire investment if we are unable to complete a business transaction, in the event we seek stockholder approval of our business transaction, our intention to pay only holders of our common stock voting in favor of such business transaction a pro rata portion of the interest earned on our trust account may be viewed as a conflict of interest. Our sponsor, which is wholly controlled by our officers, directors and members of our advisory board, will lose its entire investment in us if we are unable to consummate a business transaction by August 19, 2011. The personal and financial interests of our officers, directors and advisory board members may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business transaction and completing an initial business transaction. As a result of this potential conflict, our intention, solely in the event we seek stockholder approval of our business transaction, to only pay holders of our common stock who vote in favor of such transaction a pro rata portion of the interest earned on the trust account may be viewed as a conflict of interest and may be challenged as not enforceable. The requirement that we complete a business transaction by August 19, 2011 may give potential target businesses leverage over us in negotiating a business transaction. If we have not consummated a business transaction by August 19, 2011, we will redeem 100% of our public shares of common stock for a per share pro rata portion of the trust account (approximately $9.98 per share), plus a portion of the interest earned on the trust account but net of any taxes, and then adopt a plan of dissolution pursuant to which we will liquidate and promptly distribute the balance of our net assets to our remaining stockholders (subject to our obligations under Delaware law for claims of creditors). Any potential target business with which we enter into negotiations concerning a business transaction will be aware of this requirement. Consequently, such target businesses may obtain leverage over us in negotiating a business transaction, knowing that if we do not complete a business transaction with that particular target business, we may be unable to complete a business transaction with any target business. This risk will increase as we get closer to the time limits referenced above. 20 The requirement that we complete a business transaction by August 19, 2011 may motivate our officers and directors to approve a business transaction that is not in the best interests of stockholders. Each of our officers and directors may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by him in connection with activities on our behalf, such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business transactions. The funds for such reimbursement will be provided from the money not held in trust. In the event that we do not effect a business transaction by August 19, 2011, then any expenses incurred by such individuals in excess of the money being held outside of the trust account will not be repaid and we will liquidate. On the other hand, if we complete a business transaction within such time period, those expenses will be repaid by the target business. Consequently, our officers and directors may have an incentive to complete a business transaction other than just what is in the best interest of our stockholders. Our officers, directors, security holders and their respective affiliates may have competitive pecuniary interests that conflict with our interests. We have not adopted a policy that expressly prohibits our directors, officers, security holders or affiliates from having a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in any investment to be acquired or disposed of by us or in any transaction to which we are a party or have an interest. Nor do we have a policy that expressly prohibits any such persons from engaging for their own account in business activities of the types conducted by us. Accordingly, such persons or entities may have a conflict between their interests and ours. Our securities are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which will limit the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market or another national exchange. Our units, common stock and warrants are traded in the over-the-counter market and are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, a FINRA-sponsored and operated inter-dealer automated quotation system for equity securities not included in the Nasdaq Stock Market. Quotation of our securities on the OTC Bulletin Board will limit the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market or a national exchange. Lack of liquidity will limit the price at which you may be able to sell our securities or your ability to sell our securities at all. An active market for our securities may not develop, which would adversely affect the liquidity and price of our securities. The price of our securities may vary significantly due to our reports of operating losses, one or more potential business transactions, the filing of periodic reports with the SEC, and general market and economic conditions. An active trading market on the OTC Bulletin Board for our securities may never develop or, if developed, it may not be sustained. In addition, the price of the securities can vary due to general economic conditions and forecasts, our general business condition and the release of our financial reports. You may be unable to sell your securities unless a market can be established or sustained. We may not be able to maintain control of a target business after our initial business transaction. We may structure a business transaction to acquire less than 100% of the equity interests or assets of a target business, but will not acquire less than a controlling interest. We will acquire a controlling interest either through the acquisition of at least 50.1% of the voting equity interests in the target or through the acquisition of a significant voting equity interest that enables us to exercise a greater degree of control over the target than any other person or group. However, other minority stockholders may subsequently combine their holdings resulting in a single person or group obtaining a larger share of the company’s stock than we initially acquired. Accordingly, this may make it more likely that we will not be able to maintain our control of the target business. Unlike other blank check companies, we allow our public stockholders holding no more than 88% of the shares sold in this the Offering to exercise their redemption rights. This higher threshold will make it easier for us to consummate a business transaction with which a substantial majority of our stockholders do not agree. We will proceed with our initial business transaction unless holders of more than 88% of our public shares redeem their shares. The 88% redemption threshold is different from the redemption or conversion thresholds used by most blank check companies. Traditionally, blank check companies would not be able to consummate a business transaction if the holders of the company’s public shares voted against a proposed business transaction and elected to redeem or convert more than a much smaller percentage of the shares sold in such company’s initial public offering, which percentage threshold is typically between 19.99% and 39.99%. As a result, many blank check companies have been unable to complete business transactions because the amount of shares voted by their public stockholders electing conversion exceeded the maximum conversion threshold pursuant to which such company could proceed with a business transaction. As a result, we may be able to consummate a business transaction even though a substantial majority of our public stockholders do not agree with the transaction and have redeemed their shares or, solely if we hold a stockholder vote to approve our initial business transaction, and do not conduct redemptions in connection with our business transaction pursuant to the tender offer rules, have entered into privately negotiated agreements to sell their shares to us or our sponsor, officers, directors, advisors or their affiliates. 21 The exercise price for the public warrants is higher than in similar blank check company offerings in the past, and, accordingly, the warrants are more likely to expire worthless. The exercise price of the warrants is higher than is typical in similar blank check companies. Historically, the exercise price of a warrant was generally a fraction of the purchase price of the units in the Offering. The exercise price for our public warrants is $11.50 per share. As a result, the warrants are less likely to ever be in the money and more likely to expire worthless. The ability of a larger number of our stockholders to exercise redemption rights may not allow us to consummate the most desirable business transaction or optimize our capital structure. If our business transaction requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such redemption rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such redemption, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business transaction in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their redemption rights than we expect. In the event that the acquisition involves the issuance of our stock as consideration, we may be required to issue a higher percentage of our stock to make up for a shortfall in funds. Raising additional funds to cover any shortfall may involve dilutive equity financing or incurring indebtedness at higher than desirable levels. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business transaction available to us. In order to effectuate a business combination, blank check companies have, in the recent past, amended various provisions of their charters and modified governing instruments. We cannot assure you that we will not seek to amend our certificate of incorporation or governing instruments in order to effectuate our initial business transaction. In order to effectuate a business combination, blank check companies have, in the recent past, amended various provisions of their charters and modified governing instruments. For example, blank check companies have amended the definition of business combination, increased redemption thresholds and changed industry focus. We cannot assure you that we will not seek to amend our certificate of incorporation or governing instruments in order to effectuate our initial business transaction. Unlike most other blank check companies, the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may be amended with the approval of at least 65% of our stockholders. Most blank check companies have a provision in their charter which prohibits the amendment of certain of its provisions, including those which relate to a company’s pre-business combination activity, without approval by a certain percentage of the company’s stockholders. Typically, amendment of these provisions requires approval by between 90% and 100% of the company’s public stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that any of its provisions, including those related to pre-business transaction activity, may be amended if approved by at least 65% of our stockholders. As a result, we may be able to amend the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation which govern our pre-business transaction behavior more easily that other blank check companies, and this may increase our ability to consummate a business transaction with which you do not agree. We may issue notes or other debt securities, or otherwise incur substantial debt, to complete a business transaction, which may adversely affect our leverage and financial condition. Although we have no commitments as of the date of the prospectus to issue any notes or other debt securities, or to otherwise incur outstanding debt, we may choose to incur substantial debt to complete a business transaction. The incurrence of debt could result in: 22 · default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating cash flow after a business transaction is insufficient to pay our debt obligations; · acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contains covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant is breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; · our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; · covenants that limit our ability to acquire capital assets or make additional acquisitions; · our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding; · our inability to pay dividends on our common stock; · using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our common stock if declared, expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; · limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; · increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and · limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. Our sponsor controls a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our sponsor owns 10% of our issued and outstanding common stock (assuming it does not purchase units in the Offering or the aftermarket). This ownership interest, together with any other acquisitions of our shares of common stock (or warrants which are subsequently exercised), could allow our sponsor to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions after completion of our business transaction. Our board of directors is divided into two classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of two years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to re-elect existing directors or elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business transaction, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office until at least the consummation of the business transaction. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our sponsor, because of its ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome of an election of directors. The interests of our sponsor and your interests may not always align and taking actions which require approval of a majority of our stockholders, such as selling the company, may be more difficult to accomplish. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. We may redeem the outstanding warrants (excluding any Insider Warrants held by our sponsor or its permitted assigns or the underwriters) issued as a part of our units at any time after the warrants become exercisable, in whole and not in part, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, upon not less than 30 days prior written notice of redemption, and if, and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $17.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. In addition, we may not redeem the warrants unless on the date we give notice of redemption and during the entire period thereafter until the time we redeem the warrants we have an effective registration statement covering the shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to such common stock is available. 23 We will likely redeem the warrants if the market price of our common stock reaches $17.50 per share for the necessary trading period, since doing so would allow us to decrease the dilutive effect of the warrants. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders to exercise the warrants, whether by paying the exercise price in cash or through a cashless exercise at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants, or to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. We expect most purchasers of our warrants will hold their securities through one or more intermediaries and consequently you are unlikely to receive notice directly from us that the warrants are being redeemed. If you fail to receive notice of redemption from a third party and your warrants are redeemed for nominal value, you will not have recourse to us. Our management’s ability to require holders of our warrants to exercise such warrants on a cashless basis after we call the warrants for redemption or if there is no effective registration statement covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of these warrants will cause holders to receive fewer shares of common stock upon their exercise of the warrants than they would have received had they been able to pay the exercise price of their warrants in cash. If we call our warrants for redemption after the redemption criteria described elsewhere in the prospectus have been satisfied, our management will have the option to require any holder that wishes to exercise his warrant to do so on a “cashless basis.” “Cashless exercise” means the warrant holder pays the exercise price by giving up some of the shares for which the warrant is being exercised, with those shares valued at the then current market price. Accordingly, each holder would pay the exercise price by surrendering the warrants for that number of shares of common stock equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (x) the product of the number of shares of common stock underlying the warrants, multiplied by the difference between the exercise price of the warrants and the fair market value by (y) the fair market value. The “fair market value” shall mean the average last sales price of our common stock for the 10 trading days ending on the third trading day prior to the date on which notice of redemption is sent to the holders of the warrants. For example, if the holder is exercising 875 public warrants at $11.50 per share through a cashless exercise when the common stock has a fair market value per share of $17.50 per share, then upon the cashless exercise, the holder will receive 300 shares of common stock. The holder would have received 875 shares of common stock if the exercise price was paid in cash. In addition, in the event a registration statement covering the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant is not effective within a specified period following the consummation of our initial business transaction, warrant holders may, until such time as there is an effective registration statement and during any period when we shall have failed to maintain an effective registration statement, exercise warrants on a cashless basis. For purposes of calculating the number of shares issuable upon such cashless exercise, the “fair market value” of warrants shall be calculated using the volume weighted average sale price of the common stock for the 10 trading days ending on the trading day prior to the date on which notice of exercise is received by the warrant agent. If our management chooses to require holders to exercise their warrants on a cashless basis or if holders elect to do so when there is no effective registration statement, the number of shares of common stock received by a holder upon exercise will be fewer than it would have been had such holder exercised his warrant for cash. This will have the effect of reducing the potential “upside” of the holder’s investment in our company because the warrantholder will hold a smaller number of shares of common stock upon a cashless exercise of the warrants they hold. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business transaction. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business transaction, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares of common stock upon exercise of our public and Insider Warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle to a target business. Such warrants, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares of common stock issued to complete the business transaction. Therefore, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business transaction or increase the cost of acquiring the target business. An investor will only be able to exercise a warrant if the issuance of common stock upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or is deemed exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless the common stock issuable upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Because the exemptions from qualification in certain states for resales of warrants and for issuances of common stock by the issuer upon exercise of a warrant may be different, a warrant may be held by a holder in a state where an exemption is not available for issuance of common stock upon an exercise and the holder will be precluded from exercise of the warrant. As a result, the warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants if the common stock issuable upon such exercise is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside. 24 We may amend the terms of the warrants in a manner that may be adverse to holders with the approval by the holders of two-thirds of the then outstanding public warrants. Our warrants will be issued in registered form under a warrant agreement between Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent, and us. The warrant agreement provides that the terms of the warrants may be amended without the consent of any holder to cure any ambiguity or correct any defective provision, but requires the approval by the holders of at least two-thirds of the then outstanding public warrants in order to make any change that adversely affects the interests of the registered holders. Accordingly, we may amend the terms of the warrants in an adverse way to a holder if holders of at least two-thirds of the then outstanding public warrants approve of such amendment. Provisions in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover of us, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock and could entrench management. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. Our board of directors is divided into two classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of two years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. As a result, at a given annual meeting only a minority of the board of directors may be considered for election. Since our “staggered board” may prevent our stockholders from replacing a majority of our board of directors at any given annual meeting, it may entrench management and discourage unsolicited stockholder proposals that may be in the best interests of stockholders. Moreover, our board of directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together these provisions may make more difficult the removal of management and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require substantial financial and management resources and may increase the time and costs of completing an acquisition. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls and requires that we have such system of internal controls audited beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2011. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties and/or stockholder litigation. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. Recent revisions to section 1-202 and 2-202 of Regulation S-X and Item 308 of Regulations S-B and S-K require the expression of a single opinion directly on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting from our independent registered public accounting firm. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm report on management’s evaluation of our system of internal controls. A target company may not be in compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding adequacy of their internal controls. The development of the internal controls of any such entity to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase the time and costs necessary to complete any such acquisition. Furthermore, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. We do not currently intend to hold an annual meeting of stockholders until after our consummation of a business transaction. We do not currently intend to hold an annual meeting of stockholders until after we consummate a business transaction, and thus may not be in compliance with Section 211(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which requires an annual meeting of stockholders be held for the purposes of electing directors in accordance with a company’s bylaws unless such election is made by written consent in lieu of such a meeting. Therefore, if our stockholders want us to hold an annual meeting prior to our consummation of a business transaction, they may attempt to force us to hold one by submitting an application to the Delaware Court of Chancery in accordance with Section 211(c) of the Delaware General Corporation Law. 25 The grant of registration rights to our sponsor may make it more difficult to complete our initial business transaction, and the future exercise of such rights may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our sponsor, and the underwriters in the case of Insider Warrants purchased in the private placement, and their permitted transferees can demand that we register the initial shares and the Insider Warrants, and the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the Insider Warrants. The registration rights will be exercisable with respect to the initial shares and the Insider Warrants and the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of such Insider Warrants at any time commencing upon the date that such shares are released from escrow. We will bear the cost of registering these securities. If such persons exercise their registration rights in full, there will be an additional 555,556 shares of common stock (assuming no exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option) and up to 3,700,000 shares of common stock issuable on exercise of the Insider Warrants eligible for trading in the public market. The registration and availability of such a significant number of securities for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the registration rights may make our initial business transaction more costly or difficult to conclude. This is because the stockholders of the target business may increase the equity stake they seek in the combined entity or ask for more cash consideration to offset the negative impact on the market price of our common stock that is expected when the securities owned by our sponsor are registered. Because we must furnish our stockholders with target business financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we will not be able to complete a business transaction with prospective target businesses unless their financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The federal proxy rules require that a proxy statement with respect to a vote on a business transaction meeting certain financial significance tests include historical and/or pro forma financial statement disclosure in periodic reports. We will include the same financial statement disclosure in connection with our tender offer documents, whether or not they are required under the tender offer rules. These financial statements must be prepared in accordance with, or be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and the historical financial statements must be audited in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses we may acquire. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business transaction opportunities, it may be more difficult for us to complete a business transaction. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including private investors (which may be individuals or investment partnerships), other blank check companies and other entities, domestic and international, competing for the type of businesses we intend to acquire. Many of these individuals and entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting, directly or indirectly, acquisitions of companies operating in or providing services to various industries. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources, or more local industry knowledge, than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe there are numerous target businesses we could potentially acquire with the net proceeds of the Offering, our ability to compete with respect to the acquisition of certain target businesses that are sizable will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Furthermore, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of a business transaction may delay the consummation of a transaction. Also, our obligation to pay cash for the shares of common stock redeemed in certain instances may reduce the resources available for a business transaction. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business transaction. Item 