Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, crop disease, pests and other natural conditions can impose significant costs and losses on our business. Alfalfa seed, our primary product, is vulnerable to adverse weather conditions, including windstorms, floods, drought and temperature extremes, which are quite common but difficult to predict. In addition, alfalfa seed is vulnerable to crop disease and to pests, which may vary in severity and effect, depending on the stage of production at the time of infection or infestation, the type of treatment applied and climatic conditions. Unfavorable growing conditions can reduce both crop size and quality. While we do not grow the alfalfa seed we sell, these factors can nevertheless directly impact us by decreasing the quality and yields of our seed, reducing our inventory and supply of seed we sell to our customers, increasing our costs and decreasing revenue and gross margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our earnings may be sensitive to fluctuations in market prices and demand for our products. Growing conditions, particularly weather conditions such as windstorms, floods, droughts and freezes, as well as diseases and pests, are primary factors affecting market prices because of their influence on the supply and quality of product. Recently, the severe downturn in the California dairy industry that resulted from over-supply had a corresponding negative effect on sales of alfalfa hay and therefore our alfalfa seed. In addition, demand for our products could decline, whether because of supply and quality issues or for any other reason, including products of competitors that might be considered superior by end users. A decrease in the selling price received for our products or a decline in demand for our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because our business is highly seasonal, our revenue, cash flows from operations and operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. Our business is highly seasonal. The seasonal nature of our operations results in significant fluctuations in our working capital during the growing and selling cycles. As a result, operating activities during the second and third fiscal quarters use significant amounts of cash because we typically pay our growers progressively, starting in the second quarter. In contrast, operating activities for the fourth and first fiscal quarters typically generate cash as we ship inventory and collect accounts receivable. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant variability in net sales, operating cash flows and net income on a quarterly basis. Because we depend on a core group of significant customers, our sales, cash flows from operations and results of operations may be negatively affected if our key customers reduce the amount of products they purchase from us. Our top three customers together accounted for approximately 67% of our net sales in fiscal 2010. We are dependent upon sales to our two largest distributors, Genetics International, Inc. and S.C.A.L.E 18 Table of Contents Ag Services, which accounted for approximately 46% and 15% of our fiscal 2010 net revenue, respectively. Genetics International distributes our products to Saudi Arabia and other foreign countries. S.C.A.L.E. distributes our products to its customers in the U.S. We do not have written contracts with either of these customers. Our results of operations are significantly impacted not only by the quantity of seed purchased by these customers, but also by the timing of their purchases, a factor over which we do not have any control. Timing of purchases, particularly by our customer for Saudi Arabian sales, has in the past impacted our financial results. We expect that a small number of customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net sales for the foreseeable future. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our customers, and they may not continue to purchase our products. Because our two largest customers account for such a material portion of our sales, the loss of, or a significant adverse change in, our relationship with these customers, or any other major customer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and operating cash flows. The loss of, or a reduction in orders from any significant customers, losses arising from customers’ disputes regarding shipments, product quality, or related matters, or our inability to collect accounts receivable from any major customer could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, revenue from customers that have accounted for significant revenue in past periods, individually or as a group, may not continue, or if continued, may not reach or exceed historical levels in any period. Because we do not grow any of the alfalfa seed that we sell, we are entirely dependent on our network of growers, and our sales, cash flows from operations and results of operations may be negatively affected if our largest growers were to stop supplying seed to us. We currently have a relatively small network of growers of alfalfa seed that together provide all of the seed we sell to our customers. Double L Ranch, Triangle T Ranch and WC Davis Farms, each of whom provided us with at least 10% of the seed we purchased from our growers during the past harvest season that ended in the fall of 2009, collectively accounted for approximately 44% of our total seed purchases from growers in fiscal 2010. Each of these growers is a well-established farming organization located in California’s San Joaquin Valley and have produced alfalfa seed under annual contracts with us for many years. Most of our other growers also have had long-term grower relationships with us. However, we do not have long-term supply contracts with any of these growers, which makes us particularly vulnerable to factors beyond our control. Events such as a shift in pricing caused by an increase in the value of commodity crops other than seed crops, increase in land prices or competition could disrupt our chain of supply. Any of these disruptions could limit the supply of seed that we obtain in any given year, adversely affecting supply and thereby lowering revenues in the subsequent marketing season. Such disruption could also damage our distributor relationships and rancher and farmer loyalty to us if we cannot supply the quantity of seed expected by them. We are particularly dependent on our relationship with Triangle T. Triangle T Partners has informed us that it is in advanced stages of a potential sale and partial leaseback of the Ranch, during the fourth quarter of calendar 2010. Whether or not the sale is consummated, we are advised that Triangle T has agreed to farm its existing plantings of S&W alfalfa seed in 2011, and we expect that Triangle T will enter into our customary one-year production contract. We have been further advised that Triangle T is willing to farm significant seed acres in 2012. We have been advised that Triangle T intends to retain enough acres to more than satisfy our current plans for stevia cultivation. We believe that our foreseeable needs for alfalfa seed production can be met by other growers, if necessary. 19 Table of Contents A lack of availability of water in California’s San Joaquin Valley could impact our business. Adequate quantities and correct timing of the application of water are vital for most agriculture to thrive. Due to three consecutive years of drought conditions in California, the state experienced below normal snowpack, river runoff and reservoir levels between 2006 and 2009. Although many people believe that the drought was over because of above-average rainfall in 2010, shortages remain in many places in the state. Federal allocations of water to farmers have been severely cut back during the drought years and continued, although in slightly less severe amounts, in 2010. These conditions have caused some farmers to revise their crop plans to plant less water-intensive crops or, in the most severe cases, to lose their farms. Whether particular farms are experiencing water shortages depends, in large part, on their location, although continuing drought conditions could threaten all farmland other than those properties with their own water sources. Although alfalfa seed is not a water-intensive crop, the availability or the cost of water is a factor in the planting of the alfalfa hay grown from our seed. If the dairy farmers and others who purchase our alfalfa seed to grow hay cannot get an adequate supply of water, or if the cost of water makes it uneconomical for the farmers to grow alfalfa, we may not be able to sell our seed, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We cannot predict if water shortages will impact our business in the future, but if alfalfa hay growers are impacted, our business could also materially decline. We face intense competition, and our inability to compete effectively for any reason could adversely affect our business. The alfalfa seed market is highly competitive, and our products face competition from a number of small seed companies, as well as large agricultural and biotechnology companies. We compete primarily on the basis of consistency of product quality, product availability, customer service and price. Many of our competitors are, or are affiliated with, large diversified companies that have substantially greater marketing or financial resources than we have. These resources give our competitors greater operating flexibility that, in certain cases, may permit them to respond better or more quickly to changes in the industry or to introduce new products more quickly and with greater marketing support. Increased competition could result in lower profit margins, substantial pricing pressure, reduced market share and lower operating cash flows. Price competition, together with other forms of competition, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and operating cash flows. If we are unable to estimate our customers’ future needs accurately and to match our production to the demand of our customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We sell our seed primarily to dealers and distributors who, in turn, sell primarily to hay and dairy farmers who grow hay for dairy cattle and other livestock. Due to the nature of the alfalfa seed industry, we normally produce seed according to our production plan before we sell and deliver seed to distributors and dealers. Our dealers and distributors generally make purchasing decisions for our products based on market prices, economic and weather conditions and other factors that we and our dealers and distributors may not be able to anticipate accurately in advance. If we fail to accurately estimate the volume and types of products sought by the end users and otherwise adequately manage production amounts, we may produce more seed than our dealers and distributors want, resulting in reduced gross margins and excess 20 Table of Contents inventory investment. On the other hand, if we underestimate demand, which has happened in the past, we may not be able to satisfy our dealers and distributors’ demand for alfalfa seed, and thus damage our customer relations and end-user loyalty. Our failure to estimate end users’ future needs and to match our production to the demand of our dealers, distributors and farmers to whom we sell seed directly may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our single business line of seed development and production does not permit us to spread our business risks among different business segments and, thus, a disruption in our seed production or the industry would harm us more immediately and directly than if we were diversified. We operate mainly in the alfalfa seed business, and we do not expect this to change materially in the foreseeable future, even as we begin our stevia pilot project. Without business line diversity, we will not be able to spread the risk of our operations. Therefore, our business opportunities, revenue and income could be more immediately and directly affected by disruptions from such things as drought and disease or widespread problems affecting the alfalfa industry, payment disruptions and customer rejection of our varieties of alfalfa seed. If there is a disruption as described above, our revenue and income will be reduced, and our business operations may have to be scaled back. If we fail to introduce and commercialize new alfalfa seed varieties, we may not be able to maintain market share, and our future sales may be harmed. We cannot guarantee that the performance of our new alfalfa seed varieties will meet our customers’ expectations, or that we will be able to introduce and commercialize specific seed varieties. Reorder rates are uncertain due to several factors, many of which are beyond our control. These include changing customer preferences, competitive price pressures, our failure to develop new products to meet the evolving demands of the end users, the development of higher-demand products by our competitors and general economic conditions. The process for new products to gain market recognition and acceptance is long and has uncertainties. If we fail to introduce and commercialize a new seed variety that meets the demand of the end user, if our competitors develop products that are favored by the end users, or if we are unable to produce our existing products in sufficient quantities, our growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected and our revenue may decline. In addition, sales of our new products could replace sales of some of our current similar products, offsetting the benefit of even a successful product introduction. Roundup Ready alfalfa could be available for sale in 2010 or soon thereafter, and its availability could negatively impact our sales if we do not license the technology. Roundup Ready alfalfa, which is a GMO product of Monsanto Company developed in partnership with Forage Genetics International, currently cannot be sold in the U.S. as a result of a 2007 federal injunction that halted its sale pending release of an environmental impact statement (“EIS”) by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (“APHIS”) of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (the “USDA”). APHIS released for comment the draft EIS in November 2009, although the USDA has not provided a timetable for the release of a final EIS and record of decision deregulating the crop. However, in June 2010, a U.S. Supreme Court ruling opened the way for limited planting of Roundup Ready alfalfa, pending the environmental reviews. Once Roundup Ready alfalfa is available for sale in the U.S., we expect that there will be end users who will choose Roundup Ready alfalfa over conventionally grown alfalfa seed varieties, including our proprietary varieties, because it does make weed control easier. Unless we are willing to enter into a license with Monsanto to allow us to incorporate the Roundup Ready genetic trait into our seed, we could potentially lose sales to customers or end users who desire the benefits of Roundup Ready alfalfa. If we do license the technology to grow Roundup Ready alfalfa, we will incur royalty costs and will need to upgrade our facilities to accommodate GMO products by adding a separate cleaning and processing line, both of which will increase our expenses. 21 Table of Contents The approval of GMO alfalfa seed products in the U.S. could negatively impact our operations if our growers cannot satisfy field separation requirements we may have to impose on them to avoid cross-pollination of GMO and non-GMO products. Currently, foreign purchasers of our alfalfa seed do not allow seed to have GMO traits. In the event that the USDA adopts rules that allow insufficient field separation between GMO and non-GMO seed production, and assuming that, if adopted, such rules survive anticipated legal challenges, our business might be negatively impacted. For example, we may need to impose restrictions on our growers’ cultivation techniques or apportion our grower contracts to minimize the potential of cross-pollination of GMO and non-GMO products. In the event that such measures were not effective, and assuming that the foreign purchasers of our seed do not modify their restrictions on GMO traits, we might need to move some seed production offshore or otherwise take measures to preserve the purity of our varieties. These measures could materially increase our expenses and otherwise negatively impact our business. We have recently started a new business venture to pursue the development and production of stevia, and this part of our business is subject to many of the risks of a new business enterprise. We are in the beginning stages of expanding our business to include the development of high quality stevia varieties for production and processing of the stevia extract, Rebaudioside A (“Reb-A”). We have never developed stevia varieties or worked with growers to plant and harvest stevia. Therefore, we face numerous uncertainties relating to this startup business, including the possibility that the stevia seedlings planted during the pilot program may not grow as anticipated, the stevia varieties we select for production may not produce the results we or our growers expect; our community of farmers may not be interested in growing stevia; or we may be unable to satisfactorily contract with customers for our dried stevia product. The failure to build a successful stevia business could materially impact our growth potential. The stevia market may not develop as we anticipate and therefore our investment in stevia may not be as profitable as we expect. There are a number of challenges to market acceptance of stevia as a natural, non-caloric sweetener. Stevia has its own unique flavor, which can affect the taste of some foods and beverages. Other factors that could impact market acceptance include the price structure compared to other sugar substitutes and availability. If the high intensity, non-caloric sweetener market declines or if stevia fails to achieve substantially greater market acceptance than it currently enjoys, we will not be able to grow our revenue sufficiently for us to achieve consistent profitability from this portion of our business. Even if products conform to applicable safety and quality standards, sales could be adversely affected if consumers in target markets lose confidence in the safety, efficacy and quality of stevia. Adverse publicity about stevia or stevia-based products may discourage consumers from buying products that contain stevia. Any of these developments could adversely impact the amount of processed stevia leaves or extract we are able to sell, which could adversely impact our results of operations. 22 Table of Contents If demand for stevia does not increase, there may be excess capacity that could decrease the market price of stevia and reduce our revenue expectations. Historically, stevia has been marketed and sold in the U.S. as a dietary supplement, available in natural food and health food stores. Since December 2008, stevia producers have increased production capacity in expectation of a large demand for stevia products, and we have started our pilot stevia operation because we expect that demand for stevia will increase significantly in the future, particularly since Reb-A, a stevia extract, has received GRAS (meaning generally accepted as safe) status in the U.S., which allows it to be used as a food and beverage additive. However, there can be no assurance that there will be widespread demand for stevia products, and if demand for stevia does not increase, the stevia market may be subject to significant excess capacity, which would put downward pressure on the market price of stevia and negatively impact our expectations with respect to stevia as a revenue source. Stevia competes with sugar and other high intensity sweeteners in the global sweetener market, and the success of stevia will largely depend on consumer perception of the positive health implications of stevia relative to other sweeteners. The continued growth of stevia’s share of the global sweetener market depends upon consumer acceptance of stevia and stevia-related products and the health implications of consuming stevia relative to other sweetener products. The publication of any studies or revelation of other information that has negative implications regarding the health impacts of consuming stevia may slow or reverse the growth in consumer acceptance of stevia, which may have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition. There are difficulties in managing our storage system, which may result in damage to our seeds in storage. Alfalfa seed storage, particularly outside the U.S., entails significant risks, including difficulties in the management of moisture, temperature and humidity. In addition, stevia can lose all viability unless stored in a controlled, refrigerated environment. Any material storage problem may result in damage to our seed or dried stevia leaf and, thus, could create operating losses. If we are unable to acquire sufficient raw materials or produce sufficient finished product, we will not be able to meet the demands of our customers. We currently must acquire sufficient alfalfa seed to meet the demands of our customers. An alfalfa seed shortage could result in loss of sales and damage to our reputation. Because our proprietary seed is only available from our growers, if our growers become unable or unwilling to produce the required commercial quantities of alfalfa seed on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, we will likely be unable to meet customer demand. The failure to satisfy our customers not only could adversely impact our financial results but could irreparably harm our reputation. Although we are just entering the stevia production business, we know we will encounter similar risks if we are unable to satisfy our customers’ requirements for dried stevia due to our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of plants from our growers or are unable to timely process the stevia to satisfy our customers’ needs. In addition, we currently have only a small quantity of acreage allocated to growing stevia plants, and there is no assurance that growers in the San Joaquin Valley will decide in future growing seasons that growing stevia is the best use for their land. If we are unable to contract for a sufficient amount of acreage to grow stevia, we may not be able to capitalize on what we consider to be a very large opportunity. The loss of key employees or the failure to attract qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to run our business. The loss of any of our current executives, key employees or key advisors, and in particular Mark S. Grewal, our Chief Executive Officer, or the failure to attract, integrate, motivate and retain additional key employees, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not have “key 23 Table of Contents person” insurance on the lives of any of our management team, nor do we have employment agreements with any of our executive officers. Also, as we develop additional capabilities, we may require more skilled personnel who must be highly skilled and have a sound understanding of our industry, business or processing requirements. Recruiting personnel is highly competitive. Although to date we have been successful in recruiting and retaining qualified personnel, there can be no assurance that we will continue to attract and retain the personnel needed for our business. The failure to attract or retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to manage our expansion of operations effectively. We expect our operations to grow rapidly in the near future, both as we expand our historical business by implementing new sales and marketing activities, expanding our mill utilization and increasing our growers’ production, and as we develop and begin operating our stevia production and sales business. These efforts will require the addition of employees, expansion of facilities and greater oversight. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business strategies or respond to competitive pressures, and we may have difficulties maintaining and updating the internal procedures and the controls necessary to meet the planned expansion of our overall business. Our management will also be required to maintain and expand our relationships with customers, suppliers and third parties as well as attract new customers and suppliers. We expect that our sales and marketing costs will increase as we grow our product lines and as we increase our sales efforts in new and existing markets. There is no assurance that our current and planned operations, personnel, systems, and internal procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future growth. We expect that our general and administrative costs will increase as our operations grow to meet existing sales orders for our products and for future growth as we increase our sales efforts in new and existing markets. Changes in government policies and laws could adversely affect international sales and therefore, our financial results. Sales to our distributors who then, in turn, sell our products outside the U.S. constitute almost half of our annual revenue. We anticipate that these sales will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales and that continued growth and profitability will require further international expansion, particularly in Saudi Arabia and North Africa. Our financial results could be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of U.S. and non-U.S. governments, agencies and similar organizations. These conditions include but are not limited to changes in a country’s or region’s economic or political conditions, trade regulations affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, local labor conditions and regulations, reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries, changes in the regulatory or legal environment, burdensome taxes and tariffs and other trade barriers. International risks and uncertainties, including changing social and economic conditions as well as terrorism, political hostilities and war, could lead to reduced distribution of our products into international markets and reduced profitability associated with such sales. We could face international transportation risks in the future. Revenue from our seed sales is recognized when risk and title to the product are transferred to the customer, which usually occurs at the time shipment is made from our facilities. For sales to dealers or distributors who distribute internationally, title to the product is transferred at the time the product is 24 Table of Contents delivered to the port of debarkation. A portion of the net proceeds from our initial public offering has been allocated to warehousing some of our seed inventory in Saudi Arabia in order to have inventory more readily available for sale when desired by end users. The terms of such an arrangement have not yet been determined, but if we retain title to the seed in the warehouse in Saudi Arabia rather than first selling the seed and agreeing to hold it for our distributor, we could be subject to the risk of loss in the event our seed does not arrive in Saudi Arabia. This could occur because of interruptions in the shipments of product due to strikes, natural disasters or otherwise. While we would attempt to ensure that we are adequately insured and would attempt to transport our seed by alternative means in the event of a transportation interruption, we may not be able to do so or be successful in doing so in a timely and cost-effective manner. Future significant increases in transportation costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, particularly if we are not able to pass on such price increases to our customers. Material interruptions in service or stoppages in transportation, whether caused by strike or otherwise, could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial position and operating cash flows. Insurance covering warranty claims may become unavailable or be inadequate. Defective seed could result in warranty claims and negative publicity. Although we carry general liability insurance to cover warranty claims, such coverage may become unavailable or be inadequate. Even if coverage is offered, it may be at a price and on terms not acceptable to us. If claims exceed coverage limits, or if insurance is not available to us, the occurrence of significant claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be exposed to product quality claims, which may cause us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, may cause us to pay significant damage awards. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to our seed quality. The defense of these proceedings and claims can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert efforts and resources of our management personnel. An adverse determination in any such proceeding could subject us to significant liability and damage our market reputation and prevent us from achieving increased sales and market share. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase of our products. The current global economic downturn could result in a decrease in our sales and revenue, which could adversely affect the results of our operations, and we cannot predict the extent or duration of these trends. The global economic downturn of the past two years has significantly impacted the agricultural industry, with many farmers losing their farms or laying fallow their fields, as well as other negative impacts. The full impact of the current global economic downturn on growers, customers, vendors and other business partners cannot be known with any certainty. For example, major customers may have financial challenges unrelated to us that could result in a decrease in their business with us or, in extreme cases, cause them to file for bankruptcy protection. Similarly, parties to contracts may be forced to breach their obligations under those contracts. Although we exercise prudent oversight of the financial strength of our major business partners and seek to diversify our risk to any single business partner, there can be no assurance that there will not be a grower, customer or other business partner that is unable to meet its contractual commitments to us. Similarly, stresses and pressures in the industry may result in impacts on our business partners and competitors that could have wide ranging impacts on the future of the industry. 25 Table of Contents Capital and credit market issues could negatively affect our liquidity, increase our costs of borrowing and disrupt the operations of our growers and customers. The capital and credit markets have experienced increased volatility and disruption over the past two years, making it more difficult for companies to access those markets. Although we believe that our operating cash flows and recent access to the capital market will permit us to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that continued or increased volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets will not impair our liquidity or increase our costs of borrowing, if we need to access the credit market. Our business could also be negatively impacted if our growers or customers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets or a continued slowdown in the general economy. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business and prospects may be harmed. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent upon the proprietary nature of the seeds, seedlings, processes, technologies and materials owned by or used by us or our growers. If any competitors independently develop any technologies that substantially equal or surpass our process technology, it will adversely affect our competitive position. We do not rely upon patent protection, but guard our proprietary property by exercising a high degree of control over the alfalfa seed supply chain. However, because we do not have more formal proprietary rights protections in place, it would be possible for persons with access to our seed or plants grown from our seed to reproduce and market our proprietary seed varieties, which could significantly harm our business and our reputation. Litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary property and determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of competitors. Intellectual property litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management and other resources. If we are unable to successfully protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors could be able to market products that compete with our proprietary products without obtaining a license from us. Risks Relating to Our Securities An active market may not develop or be maintained for our securities. Our common stock, Class A warrants and Class B warrants trade on the NASDAQ Capital Market and is thinly traded. We can provide no assurance that a more active public market will develop or be sustained for any of our securities. If a more active public trading market for our securities does not develop or cannot be sustained, it may be difficult for investors to resell their securities at the price investors feel is appropriate. Our largest stockholder has a controlling interest in our company and may have interests that differ from our other stockholders. Yellowjacket, LP, our largest stockholder, owns 2,566,000 shares, or approximately 44%, of our outstanding common stock. Yellowjacket could, for the foreseeable future, have significant influence over our management and affairs and will be able to control virtually all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions such as mergers or other sales of our company or assets. Its interests could differ from ours and those of our other stockholders. In addition, the concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. 26 Table of Contents While the public warrants are outstanding, it may be more difficult to raise additional equity capital. We issued Class A warrants and Class B warrants as part of the units we sold in our initial public offering. Both classes of warrants have a five-year term, expiring in May 2015. During the term that these warrants are outstanding, the holders of the warrants will be given the opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock. We may find it more difficult to raise additional equity capital while these warrants are outstanding. At any time during which these warrants are likely to be exercised, we may be able to obtain additional equity capital on more favorable terms from other sources. The redemption of the Class A warrants or Class B warrants issued in our initial public offering may require warrantholders to sell or exercise the those warrants at a time that may be disadvantageous for them. At any time after November 3, 2010, provided that our common stock has closed at a price at least equal $8.80 for five consecutive trading days, we may redeem the outstanding Class A warrants, in whole or in part, upon not less than 30 days’ notice, at a price of $0.25 per warrant. Our Class B warrants are redeemable, in whole or in part, for $0.25 upon 30 days’ notice after November 3, 2010, provided that our common stock has closed at a price at least equal to $13.75. The terms of our warrants prohibit us from redeeming them unless we have a current and effective registration statement available covering the exercise of the warrants. In the event we exercise our right to redeem either the Class A warrants or the Class B warrants, those warrants will be exercisable until the close of business on the date fixed for redemption in such notice. If any warrant called for redemption is not exercised by such time, it will cease to be exercisable, and the holder thereof will be entitled only to the redemption price of $0.25 per warrant. Notice of redemption of the public warrants could force holders to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for them to do so or to sell the warrants at the current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants or accept the redemption price, which is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants at the time of redemption. Future sales or the potential for future sales of shares of our common stock may cause the trading price of our common stock and public warrants to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through subsequent equity offerings. Approximately 52% of our outstanding common stock is held by our pre-IPO stockholders, all of whom will be able to sell their securities under Rule 144 after November 3, 2010 without restriction, other than affiliates, who must comply with the timing and volume restrictions of Rule 144. If those stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock at one time or over a short period of time, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. This decline could, in turn, have a negative impact on the market price of our warrants. In addition, the perception in the public market that holders of restricted stock might sell shares of common stock could depress the market price of our common stock, regardless of the actual plans of those stockholders. These sales could also make it more difficult for us to sell shares of our common stock or equity-related securities in the future. Anti-takeover provisions and our right to issue preferred stock could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that would make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, including a provision that our board of directors may issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, certain anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. 27 Table of Contents The value of our common stock and public warrants could be volatile. The overall market and the price of our common stock and public warrants may fluctuate greatly. The trading price of our common stock and public warrants may be significantly affected by various factors, including: · economic status and trends in the dairy industry, which underlies domestic demand for our alfalfa seed; · quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; · termination of lock-up agreements or other restrictions on the ability of our existing stockholders to sell their shares; · our ability to meet the earnings estimates and other performance expectations of investors or financial analysts (at such time as analysts begin following our company); · fluctuations in the stock prices of our peer companies or in stock markets in general; and · general economic or political conditions. Our quarter-to-quarter performance may vary substantially, and this variance, as well as general market conditions, may cause our stock price to fluctuate greatly and potentially expose us to litigation. Our business is highly seasonal because it is tied to the growing and harvesting seasons. Typically, a substantial portion of our revenue is recognized during our first and second fiscal quarters. We generally experience lower revenue during our third and fourth fiscal quarters. Sales in the first and second fiscal quarters accounted for approximately 69% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. If sales in these quarters are lower than expected, expenses may not be offset, which would adversely affect our operating results and would have a disproportionately large impact on our operating results for that fiscal year. Our future expense estimates are based, in large part, on estimates of future revenue, which are difficult to predict. We expect to continue to make significant expenditures in order to expand production, sales, marketing and administrative systems and processes. We may be unable to, or may elect not to, adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. If our increased expenses are not accompanied by increased revenue in the same quarter, our quarterly operating results would be harmed. In one or more future quarters, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of investors and the trading price of our securities may decline as a consequence. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results will not be a good indication of our future performance and should not be relied upon to predict the future performance of our stock price. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have often been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. 28 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 