ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Continued fundamental changes in the industries in which we operate have had and could continue to have adverse effects on our businesses. Our products are sold to automobile manufacturers and manufacturers of commercial and residential HVAC systems, as well as to manufacturers in the refrigeration, lighting, aerospace, telecommunications, power supply and generation and industrial markets, among others. These are global industries, and they are experiencing various degrees of growth and consolidation. Customers in these industries are located in every major geographic market. As a result, our customers are affected by changes in global and regional economic conditions, as well as by labor relations issues, regulatory requirements, trade agreements and other factors. These factors, in turn, affect overall demand and prices for our products sold to these industries. Changes in the industries in which we operate may be more detrimental to us in comparison to our competitors due to our significant levels of debt. In addition, many of our products are platform-specific—for example, sensors are designed for certain of our HVAC manufacturer customers according to specifications to fit a particular model. Our success may, to a certain degree, be connected with the success or failure of one or more of the industries to which we sell products, either in general or with respect to one or more of the platforms or systems for which our products are designed. Continued pricing and other pressures from our customers may adversely affect our business. Many of our customers, including automotive manufacturers and other industrial and commercial OEMs, have policies of seeking price reductions each year. Recently, many of the industries in which our products are sold have suffered from unfavorable pricing pressures in North America and Europe, which in turn has led manufacturers to seek price reductions from their suppliers. Our significant reliance on these industries subjects us to these and other similar pressures. If we are not able to offset continued price reductions through improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, those price reductions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our customers occasionally require engineering, design or production changes. In some circumstances, we may be unable to cover the costs of these changes with price increases. Additionally, as our customers grow larger, they may increasingly require us to provide them with our products on an exclusive basis, which could cause an increase in the number of products we must carry and, consequently, increase our inventory levels and working capital requirements. Certain of our customers, particularly domestic automotive manufacturers, are increasingly requiring their suppliers to agree to their standard purchasing terms without deviation as a condition to engage in future business transactions. As a result, we may find it difficult to enter into agreements with such customers on terms that are commercially reasonable to us. Conditions in the automotive industry have had, and may have in the future, adverse effects on our results of operations. Much of our business depends on and is directly affected by the global automobile industry. Sales to customers in the automotive industry accounted for approximately 55% of our total net revenue for fiscal year 2010. Automakers and their suppliers globally continue to experience significant difficulties from a weakened economy and tightened credit markets. Globally, many automakers and their suppliers are still recovering from financial distress experienced in recent years. Adverse developments like those we have seen in recent years in the automotive industry, including but not limited to declines in demand, customer bankruptcies and increased demands on us for pricing decreases, would have adverse effects on our results of operations and could impact our liquidity position and our ability to meet restrictive debt covenants. In addition, these same conditions could adversely impact certain of our vendors’ financial solvency, resulting in potential liabilities or additional costs to us to ensure uninterrupted supply to our customers. 20 Table of Contents Our ability to operate our business effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel. Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies effectively depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. Our management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. These individuals possess sales, marketing, engineering, manufacturing, financial and administrative skills that are critical to the operation of our business. In addition, the market for engineers and other individuals with the required technical expertise to succeed in our business is highly competitive and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel to replace or succeed key employees should the need arise. During 2008 and 2009, we completed certain reductions in force at a number of our sites in order to align our business operations with current and projected economic conditions. The loss of the services of any of our key employees or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to maintain our existing relationships with our customers, our exposure to industry and customer-specific demand fluctuations could increase and our revenue may decline as a result. Our customers consist of a diverse base of OEMs across the automotive, HVAC, appliance, industrial, aerospace, defense and other end-markets in various geographic locations throughout the world. In the event that we fail to maintain our relationships with our existing customers and such failure increases our dependence on particular markets or customers, then our revenue would be exposed to greater industry and customer-specific demand fluctuations, and could decline as a result. We are subject to risks associated with our non-U.S. operations, which could adversely impact the reported results of operations from our international businesses. Our subsidiaries outside of the Americas generated approximately 58% of our net revenue for fiscal year 2010, and we expect sales from non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our total sales. International sales and operations are subject to changes in local government regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, taxation, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings. A significant portion of our revenue, expenses, receivables and payables are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars. We are, therefore, subject to foreign currency risks and foreign exchange exposure. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and could affect our operating results. For financial reporting purposes, the functional currency that we use is the U.S. dollar because of the significant influence of the U.S. dollar on our operations. In certain instances, we enter into transactions that are denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar. At the date the transaction is recognized, each asset, liability, revenue, expense, gain or loss arising from the transaction is measured and recorded in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at that date. At each balance sheet date, recorded monetary balances denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar are adjusted to the U.S. dollar using the current exchange rate with gains or losses recorded in Currency translation gain/(loss) and other, net. During times of a weakening U.S. dollar, our reported international sales and earnings will increase because the non-U.S. currency will translate into more U.S. dollars. Conversely, during times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported international sales and earnings will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer U.S. dollars. There are other risks that are inherent in our non-U.S. operations, including the potential for changes in socio-economic conditions and/or monetary and fiscal policies, intellectual property protection difficulties and disputes, the settlement of legal disputes through certain foreign legal systems, the collection of receivables, exposure to possible expropriation or other government actions, unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against American interests. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our non-U.S. operations and, therefore, on our business and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Our businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive, and competitive pressures could require us to lower our prices or result in reduced demand for our products. Our businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive, and we compete on the basis of product performance, quality, service and/or price across the industries and markets we serve. A significant element of our competitive strategy is to manufacture high-quality products at low-cost, particularly in markets where low-cost country-based suppliers, primarily China with respect to the controls business, have entered our markets or increased their sales in our markets by delivering products at low-cost to local OEMs. Some of our competitors have greater sales, assets and financial resources than we do. In addition, many of our competitors in the automotive sensors market are controlled by major OEMs or suppliers, limiting our access to certain customers. Many of our customers also rely on us as their sole source of supply for many of the products we have historically sold to them. These customers may choose to develop relationships with additional suppliers or elect to produce some or all of these products internally, in each case in order to reduce risk of delivery interruptions or as a means of extracting pricing concessions. Certain of our customers currently have, or may develop in the future, the capability of internally producing the products we sell to them and may compete with us with respect to those and other products with respect to other customers. For example, Robert Bosch Gmbh, who is one of our largest customers with respect to our control products, also competes with us with respect to certain of our sensors products. Competitive pressures such as these, and others, could affect prices or customer demand for our products, negatively impacting our profit margins and/or resulting in a loss of market share. We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. The sensors and controls markets are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent enhancements to existing services and products, the introduction of new services and products and changing customer demands. Changes in competitive technologies may render certain of our products less attractive or obsolete, and if we cannot anticipate changes in technology and develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis, our ability to remain competitive may be negatively impacted. The success of new products depends on their initial and continued acceptance by our customers. Our businesses are affected by varying degrees of technological change, which result in unpredictable product transitions, shortened lifecycles and increased importance of being first to market with new products and services. We may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production and/or marketing of new products, which may negatively impact our operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to bring new products to market. As part of our ongoing cost containment program designed to align our operations with economic conditions, we have had to make, and may have to make again in the future, adjustments to both the scope and breadth of our overall research and development (“R&D”) program. Such actions may result in choices that could adversely affect our ability to either take advantage of emerging trends or to develop new technologies or make sufficient advancements to existing technologies. We may not be able to timely and efficiently increase our production capacity in order to meet future growth in the demand for our products. A substantial increase in demand for our products may require us to expand our production capacity, which could require us to identify and acquire or lease additional manufacturing facilities. While we believe that suitable additional or substitute facilities will be available as required, if we are unable to acquire, integrate and move into production the facilities, equipment and personnel necessary to meet such increase in demand, our customer relationships, results of operations and financial performance may suffer materially. We are currently expanding our manufacturing capacity in our Baoying and Changzhou facilities to mitigate this risk. 22 Table of Contents We may not be able to protect our intellectual property, including our proprietary technology and the Sensata, Klixon®, Airpax® and Dimensions brands. Our success depends to some degree on our ability to protect our intellectual property and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may manufacture and market products similar to ours. We have sought and may continue from time to time to seek to protect our intellectual property rights through litigation. These efforts might be unsuccessful in protecting such rights and may adversely affect our financial performance and distract our management. We also cannot be sure that competitors will not challenge, invalidate or void the application of any existing or future patents that we receive or license. In addition, patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using or selling products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. It is also possible that third parties may have or acquire licenses for other technology or designs that we may use or wish to use, so that we may need to acquire licenses to, or contest the validity of, such patents or trademarks of third parties. Such licenses may not be made available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and we may not prevail in contesting the validity of third-party rights. In addition to patent and trademark protection, we also protect trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information, as well as brand names such as the Sensata, Klixon®, Airpax® and Dimensions brands under which we market many of the products sold in our controls business, against unauthorized use by others or disclosure by persons who have access to them, such as our employees, through contractual arrangements. These arrangements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability of confidentiality agreements, and we cannot be sure that our trade secrets and proprietary technology will not otherwise become known or that our competitors will not independently develop our trade secrets and proprietary technology. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, our sales could be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to claims that our products or processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages, modify our products or processes or prevent us from selling our products. Third parties may claim that our processes and products infringe on their intellectual property rights. Whether or not these claims have merit, we may be subject to costly and time-consuming legal proceedings, and this could divert our management’s attention from operating our business. If these claims are successfully asserted against us, we could be required to pay substantial damages and could be prevented from selling some or all of our products. We may also be obligated to indemnify our business partners or customers in any such litigation. Furthermore, we may need to obtain licenses from these third parties or substantially reengineer or rename our products in order to avoid infringement. In addition, we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to reengineer or rename our products successfully. If we are prevented from selling some or all of our products, our sales could be materially adversely affected. Increasing costs for manufactured components and raw materials may adversely affect our profitability. We use a broad range of manufactured components and raw materials in the manufacture of our products, including silver, gold, nickel, aluminum and copper, which may experience significant volatility in their prices. We generally purchase raw materials at spot prices. We first entered into hedge arrangements in 2007 and may continue to do so from time to time in the future. Such hedges might not be economically successful. In addition, these hedges do not qualify as accounting hedges in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Accordingly, the change in fair value of these hedges is recognized in earnings immediately, which could cause volatility in our results of operations from quarter to quarter. The availability and price of raw materials and manufactured components may be subject to change due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, global economic or political events including strikes, terrorist actions and war, 23 Table of Contents suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, changes in exchange rates and prevailing price levels. It is generally difficult to pass increased prices for manufactured components and raw materials through to our customers in the form of price increases. Therefore, a significant increase in the price of these items could materially increase our operating costs and materially and adversely affect our profit margins. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability, warranty and recall claims that may be brought against us. We have been and may continue to be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in death, bodily injury and/or property damage. Accordingly, we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of the underlying end product, particularly if the defect or the alleged defect relates to product safety. Depending on the terms under which we supply products, an OEM may hold us responsible for some or all of the repair or replacement costs of these products under warranties, when the product supplied did not perform as represented. In addition, a product recall could generate substantial negative publicity about our business and interfere with our manufacturing plans and product delivery obligations as we seek to repair affected products. Our costs associated with product liability, warranty and recall claims could be material. We may not be successful in recovering damages, including those associated with product liability, warranty and recall claims, from Texas Instruments under the terms of the Acquisition Agreement. Texas Instruments has agreed in the 2006 Acquisition to indemnify us for certain claims and litigation. Texas Instruments is not required to indemnify us for these claims until the aggregate amount of damages from such claims exceeds $30.0 million. If the aggregate amount of these claims exceeds $30.0 million, Texas Instruments is obligated to indemnify us for amounts in excess of the $30.0 million threshold. Texas Instruments’ indemnification obligation is capped at $300.0 million. Based on claims to date, we believe that the aggregate amount of damages from these claims will ultimately exceed $30.0 million. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in recovering amounts from Texas Instruments. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our business, and we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2010, we had $1,889.7 million of outstanding indebtedness, including $1,412.0 million of indebtedness under our multi-currency $1,500.0 million senior secured credit facility with Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC and Goldman Sachs Credit Partners, L.P. as joint lead arrangers (the “Senior Secured Credit Facility”) (excluding availability under our revolving credit facility and outstanding letters of credit); $436.2 million of outstanding 8% senior notes issued under an indenture dated as of April 27, 2006 (the “Senior Notes”) and 9% and 11.25% senior subordinated notes issued under an indenture dated as of April 27, 2006 (the “Senior Subordinated Notes”); and $41.5 million of capital lease and other financing obligations. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and future business opportunities, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage if our competitors are not as highly-leveraged; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; or 24 Table of Contents • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness if we do not maintain specified financial ratios or are not able to refinance our indebtedness as it comes due, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes. In addition, our Senior Secured Credit Facility and the indentures governing the Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes permit us to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. As of December 31, 2010, we had $143.1 million available to us for additional borrowing under the $150.0 million revolving credit facility portion of the Senior Secured Credit Facility. If we increase our indebtedness by borrowing under the revolving credit facility or incur other new indebtedness, the risks described above would increase. Labor disruptions or increased labor costs could adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 10,500 employees, of whom approximately 9% were located in the United States, none of which were covered by collective bargaining agreements. In various countries, local law requires our participation in works councils. A material labor disruption or work stoppage at one or more of our manufacturing facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, work stoppages occur relatively frequently in the industries in which many of our customers operate, such as the automotive industry. If one or more of our larger customers were to experience a material work stoppage, that customer may halt or limit the purchase of our products. This could cause us to shut down production facilities relating to those products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The loss of one or more of our suppliers of finished goods or raw materials may interrupt our supplies and materially harm our business. We purchase raw materials and components from a wide range of suppliers. For certain raw materials or components, however, we are dependent on sole source suppliers. We generally obtain these raw materials and components through individual purchase orders executed on an as needed basis rather than pursuant to long-term supply agreements. Our ability to meet our customers’ needs depends on our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of raw materials and finished products from our third-party suppliers and manufacturers. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if any of our principal third-party suppliers or manufacturers experience production problems, lack of capacity or transportation disruptions or otherwise determine to cease producing such raw materials or components. The magnitude of this risk depends upon the timing of the changes, the materials or products that the third-party manufacturers provide and the volume of the production. We may not be able to make arrangements for transition supply and qualifying replacement suppliers in both a cost-effective and timely manner. Refer to Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements,” for additional information. Our dependence on third parties for raw materials and components subjects us to the risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products. Quality failures by our third-party manufacturers or changes in their financial or business condition which affect their production could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby materially harm our business. Non-performance by our suppliers may adversely affect our operations. Because we purchase various types of raw materials and component parts from suppliers, we may be materially and adversely affected by the failure of those suppliers to perform as expected. This non-performance may consist of delivery delays or failures caused by production issues or delivery of non-conforming products. The risk of non-performance may also result from the insolvency or bankruptcy of one or more of our suppliers. Our efforts to protect against and to minimize these risks may not always be effective. We may occasionally seek to engage new suppliers with which we have little or no experience. For example, we do not have a prior 25 Table of Contents relationship with all of the suppliers that we are qualifying for the supply of contacts. The use of new suppliers can pose technical, quality and other risks. We depend on third parties for certain transportation, warehousing and logistics services. We rely primarily on third parties for transportation of the products we manufacture. In particular, a significant portion of the goods we manufacture are transported to different countries, requiring sophisticated warehousing, logistics and other resources. If any of the countries from which we transport products were to suffer delays in exporting manufactured goods, or if any of our third-party transportation providers were to fail to deliver the goods we manufacture in a timely manner, we may be unable to sell those products at full value, or at all. Similarly, if any of our raw materials could not be delivered to us in a timely manner, we may be unable to manufacture our products in response to customer demand. A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could harm our financial condition and operating results. If one of our manufacturing facilities were to be shut down unexpectedly, or certain of our manufacturing operations within an otherwise operational facility were to cease production unexpectedly, our revenue and profit margins would be adversely affected. Such a disruption could be caused by a number of different events, including: • maintenance outages; • prolonged power failures; • an equipment failure; • fires, floods, earthquakes or other catastrophes; • potential unrest or terrorist activity; • labor difficulties; or • other operational problems. In addition, approximately 96% of our products are manufactured at facilities located outside the United States. Serving a global customer base requires that we place more production in emerging markets, such as China, Mexico and Malaysia, to capitalize on market opportunities and maintain our low-cost position. Our international production facilities and operations could be particularly vulnerable to the effects of a natural disaster, labor strike, war, political unrest, terrorist activity or public health concerns, especially in emerging countries that are not well-equipped to handle such occurrences. Our manufacturing facilities abroad may also be more susceptible to changes in laws and policies in host countries and economic and political upheaval than our domestic facilities. If any of these or other events were to result in a material disruption of our manufacturing operations, our ability to meet our production capacity targets and satisfy customer requirements may be impaired. We may not realize all of the revenue or achieve anticipated gross margins from products subject to existing purchase orders or for which we are currently engaged in development. Our ability to generate revenue from products subject to customer awards is subject to a number of important risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, including the number of products our customers will actually produce as well as the timing of such production. Many of our customer contracts provide for supplying a certain share of the customer’s requirements for a particular application or platform, rather than for manufacturing a specific quantity of products. In some cases we have no remedy if a customer chooses to purchase less than we expect. In cases where customers do make minimum volume commitments to us, our remedy for their failure to meet those minimum volumes is limited to increased pricing on those products 26 Table of Contents the customer does purchase from us or renegotiating other contract terms. There is no assurance that such price increases or new terms will offset a shortfall in expected revenue. In addition, some of our customers may have the right to discontinue a program or replace us with another supplier under certain circumstances. As a result, products for which we are currently incurring development expenses may not be manufactured by customers at all, or may be manufactured in smaller amounts than currently anticipated. Therefore, our anticipated future revenue from products relating to existing customer awards or product development relationships may not result in firm orders from customers for the originally contracted amount. We also incur capital expenditures and other costs, and price our products, based on estimated production volumes. If actual production volumes were significantly lower than estimated, our anticipated revenue and gross margin from those new products would be adversely affected. We cannot predict the ultimate demand for our customers’ products, nor can we predict the extent to which we would be able to pass through unanticipated per-unit cost increases to our customers. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or “Section 404,” may be costly with no assurance of maintaining effective internal controls over financial reporting. We will likely experience significant operating expenses in connection with maintaining our internal control environment and Section 404 compliance activities. In addition, if we are unable to efficiently maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, our operations may suffer and we may be unable to obtain an attestation on internal controls from our independent registered public accounting firm when required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Recent cost reduction actions, including the loss of experienced finance and administrative personnel, may adversely effect our ability to maintain effective internal controls. This, in turn, could have a materially adverse impact on trading prices for our securities and adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets. Export of our products are subject to various export control regulations and may require a license from either the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Department of Commerce or the U.S. Department of the Treasury. We must comply with the United States Export Administration Regulations, ITAR and the sanctions, regulations and embargoes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. Certain of our products that have military applications are on the munitions list of the ITAR and require an individual validated license in order to be exported to certain jurisdictions. Any changes in export regulations may further restrict the export of our products, and we may cease to be able to procure export licenses for our products under existing regulations. The length of time required by the licensing process can vary, potentially delaying the shipment of products and the recognition of the corresponding revenue. Any restriction on the export of a significant product line or a significant amount of our products could cause a significant reduction in revenue. We may be adversely affected by environmental, safety and governmental regulations or concerns. We are subject to the requirements of environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations in the United States and other countries, as well as product performance standards established by quasi governmental and industrial standards organizations. We cannot assure you that we have been and will continue to be in complete compliance with all of these requirements on account of circumstances or events that have occurred or exist but that we are unaware of, or that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with these requirements in excess of amounts we have reserved. In addition, these requirements are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. These requirements may change in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have made and may be required in the future to make capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to pending litigation raising various environmental and human health and safety claims. We cannot assure you that our costs to defend and settle these claims will not be material. 27 Table of Contents Changes in existing environmental and/or safety laws, regulations and programs could reduce demand for environmental and safety-related products, which could cause our revenue to decline. A significant amount of our business is generated either directly or indirectly as a result of existing U.S. federal and state laws, regulations and programs related to environmental protection, fuel economy and energy efficiency, and safety regulation. Accordingly, a relaxation or repeal of these laws and regulations, or changes in governmental policies regarding the funding, implementation or enforcement of these programs, could result in a decline in demand for environmental and safety products which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these laws. Many of the countries in which we operate have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our compliance program, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or negligent acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, may have a negative effect on our results of operations, financial condition and reputation. During the second half of 2010, we conducted an internal investigation under the direction of the audit committee of our board of directors to determine whether any laws, including the FCPA, may have been violated in connection with a certain business relationship entered into by one of our operating subsidiaries involving business in China. We believe the amount of payments and the business involved are immaterial. We discontinued the specific business relationship and did not identify any other suspect transactions in our investigation. We contacted the United States Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission to begin the process of making a voluntary disclosure of the possible violations, investigation, and initial findings. We will continue to cooperate fully with their review; however, the outcome of such review is unknown. The FCPA (and related statutes and regulations) provides for potential monetary penalties, criminal and civil sanctions, and other remedies. We are unable to estimate the potential penalties and/or sanctions, if any, that might be assessed in connection with our voluntary disclosure of possible FCPA violations. Any such penalties or sanctions may have a negative effect on our results of operations, financial condition and reputation. Integration of acquired companies and any future acquisitions and joint ventures or dispositions may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities. We have grown, and in the future we intend to continue to grow, by making acquisitions or entering into joint ventures or similar arrangements. On January 28, 2011, we closed on the acquisition of the Automotive on Board business, which we will refer to as MSP. The Automotive on Board business was expected to generate approximately $130 million of revenue in 2010; however, there can be no assurance that MSP will perform as expected in the future. Any future acquisitions will depend on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, to negotiate acceptable terms for their acquisition and to finance those acquisitions. We will also face competition for suitable acquisition candidates that may increase our costs. In addition, acquisitions or investments require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from our other operations. Furthermore, acquisitions of businesses or facilities, including MSP and those which may occur in the future, entail a number of additional risks, including: • problems with effective integration of operations; • the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition customer, supplier and employee relationships; • increased operating costs; and 28 Table of Contents • exposure to unanticipated liabilities. Subject to the terms of our indebtedness, we may finance future acquisitions with cash from operations, additional indebtedness and/or by issuing additional equity securities. In addition, we could face financial risks associated with incurring additional indebtedness such as reducing our liquidity, obtaining access to financing markets and increasing the amount of debt service. If conditions in the credit markets remain tight, the availability of debt to finance future acquisitions will be restricted and our ability to make future acquisitions will be limited. We may also seek to restructure our business in the future by disposing of certain of our assets. There can be no assurance that any restructuring of our business will not adversely affect our financial position, leverage or results of operations. In addition, any significant restructuring of our business will require significant managerial attention which may be diverted from our operations and may require us to accept non-cash consideration for any sale of our assets, the market value of which may fluctuate. We may not realize all of the anticipated operating synergies and cost savings from acquisitions, and we may experience difficulties in integrating these businesses, which may adversely affect our financial performance. There can be no assurance that we will realize all of the anticipated operating synergies and cost savings from our acquisitions. We anticipate that we will achieve synergies from MSP over 18 to 24 months following the closing. However, there can be no assurance that any of the anticipated synergies will be achieved or that they will be achieved in our estimated time frame. We may not be able to successfully integrate and streamline overlapping functions from this transaction or future acquisitions, and integration may be more costly to accomplish than we expect. In addition, we could encounter difficulties in managing our combined company due to its increased size and scope. Taxing authorities could challenge our historical and future tax positions or our allocation of taxable income among our subsidiaries, or tax laws to which we are subject could change in a manner adverse to us. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. We have taken and will continue to take tax positions based on our interpretation of such tax laws. There can be no assurance that a taxing authority will not have a different interpretation of applicable law and assess us with additional taxes. Should we be assessed with additional taxes, this may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We conduct operations through manufacturing and distribution subsidiaries in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world. Our transfer pricing methodology is based on economic studies. The price charged for products, services and financing among our companies could be challenged by the various tax authorities resulting in additional tax liability, interest and/or penalties. Tax laws are subject to change in the various countries in which we operate. Such future changes could be unfavorable and result in an increased tax burden to us. We have significant unfunded benefit obligations with respect to our defined benefit and other post-retirement benefit plans. We provide various retirement plans for employees, including defined benefit, defined contribution and retiree healthcare benefit plans. As of December 31, 2010, we had recognized a net accrued benefit liability of approximately $43.9 million representing the unfunded benefit obligations of the defined benefit and retiree healthcare plans. 29 Table of Contents We have previously experienced declines in interest rates and pension asset values. Future declines in interest rates or the market values of the securities held by the plans, or certain other changes, could materially deteriorate the funded status of our plans and affect the level and timing of required contributions in 2011 and beyond. Additionally, a material deterioration in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase pension expenses and reduce our profitability. We fund certain of our benefit obligations on a pay-as-you-go basis; accordingly, the related plans have no assets. As a result, we are subject to increased cash outlays and costs due to, among other factors, rising healthcare costs. Increases in the expected cost of health care beyond current assumptions could increase actuarially determined liabilities and related expenses along with future cash outlays. Our assumptions used to calculate pension and healthcare obligations as of the annual measurement date directly impact the expense to be recognized in future periods. While our management believes that these assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in these assumptions may materially affect our pension and healthcare obligations and future expense. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, and we may be required to recognize goodwill or intangible asset impairments which would reduce our earnings. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, including tradenames. Goodwill and other net identifiable intangible assets totaled approximately $2.3 billion as of December 31, 2010, or 66% of our total assets. Goodwill, which represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the businesses acquired, was approximately $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2010, or 45% of our total assets. Goodwill and other net identifiable intangible assets were recorded at fair value on the respective dates of acquisition. Impairment of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in laws or regulations, unexpected significant or planned changes in use of assets and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge that is included in operating income which may impact our ability to raise capital. During fiscal years 2009 and 2008, we recorded impairment charges on goodwill and other intangible assets associated with our Interconnection reporting unit totaling $19.9 million and $13.2 million, respectively. No impairment charges were required during fiscal year 2010. Should certain assumptions used in the development of the fair value of our reporting units change, we may be required to recognize additional goodwill or other intangible asset impairment. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or future borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facility or from other sources may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to repay our indebtedness, including our existing Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs, including capital expenditure requirements. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain enough capital to service our debt and fund our planned capital expenditures and business plan. If we complete additional acquisitions, our debt service requirements could also increase. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity investments or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Additionally, we may not be able to effect such actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our credit arrangements, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. The Senior Secured Credit Facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios, including a maximum ratio of total indebtedness to Adjusted EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and certain other adjustments as defined in the Senior Secured Credit Facility), a minimum ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to interest expense, and maximum capital expenditures. In addition, the Senior Secured Credit Facility and the indentures governing the Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes require us to comply with various 30 Table of Contents operational and other covenants. For purposes of the Senior Secured Credit Facility, Adjusted EBITDA is calculated using various add-backs to EBITDA. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, the leverage and coverage ratios tightened from levels in 2009 to a maximum leverage ratio covenant of 7.00 to 1 and a minimum interest coverage ratio covenant of 1.60 to 1. These ratios will remain at these amounts for the remaining term of the Senior Secured Credit Facility. Based on December 31, 2010 indebtedness (as defined in the Senior Secured Credit Facility) of $1,503.6 million, STBV’s minimum “last twelve months” Adjusted EBITDA to maintain compliance with the maximum leverage ratio covenant is $214.8 million. Based on December 31, 2010 last twelve months interest expense (as defined in the Senior Secured Credit Facility) of $96.0 million, STBV’s minimum last twelve months Adjusted EBITDA to maintain compliance with the minimum interest coverage ratio requirement is $153.6 million. STBV’s last twelve months Adjusted EBITDA as of December 31, 2010 was $462.2 million. Sufficiently adverse financial performance, including the failure to achieve our financial forecasts, could result in default. Additionally, creditors may challenge the nature of our add-backs to EBITDA, possibly increasing the risk of default. If there were an event of default under any of our debt instruments that was not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the debt to become due and payable immediately, which in turn would result in cross defaults under our other debt instruments. Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings if accelerated upon an event of default. If, when required, we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, our credit agreement, or if a default otherwise occurs, the lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facility could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans, declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, institute foreclosure proceedings against those assets that secure the borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facility and prevent us from making payments on the Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes. Any such actions could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation, and we might not be able to repay our obligations in such an event. In the future, we may not secure financing necessary to operate and grow our business or to exploit opportunities. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, some of which are outside our control, including the future development of the markets in which we participate. We may need to raise additional funds to support expansion, develop new or enhanced products, respond to competitive pressures, acquire complementary businesses or technologies or take advantage of unanticipated opportunities. If our capital resources are not sufficient to satisfy our liquidity needs, we may seek to sell additional debt or equity securities or obtain other debt financing. The incurrence of debt would result in increased expenses and could include covenants that would further restrict our operations. If the credit markets remain tight, we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if required, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We have reported significant net losses for fiscal 2007, 2008, and 2009 and may not sustain recently achieved profitability in the foreseeable future. We incurred a significant amount of indebtedness in connection with the 2006 Acquisition and the subsequent acquisitions of First Technology Automotive and Airpax and, as a result, our interest expense has been substantial for periods following the 2006 Acquisition. Due, in part, to this significant interest expense and the amortization of intangible assets also related to these acquisitions, we have reported net losses of $27.7 million, $134.5 million and $252.5 million, for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. For fiscal year 2010, we reported net income of $130.1 million. We repaid approximately $321.7 million in principal of our indebtedness in March and April 2010 with proceeds from our initial public offering (“IPO”). However, we continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. Due to the significant interest expense associated with the remaining indebtedness and the continued amortization of intangible assets, we cannot assure you that we will sustain recently achieved profitability in the foreseeable future. 31 Table of Contents We are a Netherlands public limited liability company and it may be difficult for shareholders to obtain or enforce judgments against us in the United States. We are incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands, and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, although we have appointed an agent for service of process in the U.S., it may be difficult or impossible for United States investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or to realize in the United States on any judgment against us including for civil liabilities under the United States securities laws. Therefore, any judgment obtained in any United States federal or state court against us may have to be enforced in the courts of the Netherlands, or such other foreign jurisdiction, as applicable. Because there is no treaty or other applicable convention between the United States and the Netherlands with respect to legal judgments, a judgment rendered by any United States federal or state court will not be enforced by the courts of the Netherlands unless the underlying claim is relitigated before a Dutch court. Under current practice, however, a Dutch court will generally grant the same judgment without a review of the merits of the underlying claim (i) if that judgment resulted from legal proceedings compatible with Dutch notions of due process, (ii) if that judgment does not contravene public policy of the Netherlands and (iii) if the jurisdiction of the United States federal or state court has been based on internationally accepted principles of private international law. To date, we are aware of only one case in which a Dutch court has considered whether such a foreign judgment would be enforced in the Netherlands. In that case, a U.S. court entered a default judgment against the defendant, a Netherlands resident, in a lawsuit involving a breach of contract claim. The defendant sought to relitigate the claim in the Netherlands. The Dutch lower court ruled that the criteria discussed above were satisfied with respect to the U.S. judgment, as a result of which the Dutch court granted the same judgment without a review of the merits of the underlying claim. Investors should not assume, however, that the courts of the Netherlands, or such other foreign jurisdiction, would enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States securities laws or that such courts would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us predicated solely upon such laws. Shareholders’ rights and responsibilities are governed by Dutch law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law, and shareholder rights under Dutch law may not be as clearly established as shareholder rights are established under the laws of some U.S. jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of association and by the laws governing companies incorporated in the Netherlands. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors under Dutch law may not be as clearly established as under the laws of some U.S. jurisdictions. In the performance of its duties, our board of directors is required by Dutch law to consider the interests of our company, our shareholders, our employees and other stakeholders in all cases with reasonableness and fairness. It is possible that some of these parties will have interests that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of our shareholders. It is anticipated that all of our shareholder meetings will take place in the Netherlands. In addition, the rights of holders of ordinary shares and many of the rights of shareholders as they relate to, for example, the exercise of shareholder rights, are governed by Dutch law and our articles of association and differ from the rights of shareholders under U.S. law. For example, Dutch law does not grant appraisal rights to a company’s shareholders who wish to challenge the consideration to be paid upon a merger or consolidation of the company. The provisions of Dutch corporate law and our articles of association have the effect of concentrating control over certain corporate decisions and transactions in the hands of our board of directors. As a result, holders of our shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by members of our board of directors than if we were incorporated in the United States. 32 Table of Contents We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange listing rules and, as a result, we qualify for, and rely on, applicable exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. We are a “controlled company” under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by a group is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements of such exchange, including the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors. Our principal shareholder, SCA owns approximately 64.7% of our outstanding ordinary shares. We will continue to rely on this exemption to the extent it is applicable, and therefore we may not have a majority of independent directors, nor will our nominating and governance or compensation committees consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, shareholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are not deemed “controlled companies.” There may not be an active, liquid trading market for our ordinary shares, and our shareholders may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price at which they purchase them. The IPO of our ordinary shares was completed in March 2010 at a price of $18.00 per share and a secondary public offering was completed in November 2010 at a price of $24.10 per share. There has been a public market for our ordinary shares for only a relatively short period of time. An active, liquid and orderly market for our ordinary shares may not be sustained, which could depress the trading price of our ordinary shares. An inactive market may also impair a shareholder’s ability to sell any of our ordinary shares that he or she purchases. In addition, the market price of our ordinary shares may fluctuate significantly and may be adversely affected by broad market and industry factors, regardless of our actual operating performance. Our principal shareholder continues to have control over us which could limit our other shareholders’ ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. Our principal shareholder, SCA owns approximately 64.7% of our outstanding ordinary shares. This entity is indirectly controlled by investment funds advised or managed by the principals of Bain Capital and, pursuant to agreements among all of its existing shareholders, Bain Capital has the right to appoint all of its directors. As a result, this shareholder would be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from our other shareholders and may vote in a way with which our other shareholders disagree and which may be adverse to their interests. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their ordinary shares as part of our sale and might ultimately affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Future sales of our ordinary shares in the public market could cause our share price to fall. If our existing majority shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market, the market price of our ordinary shares could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that our existing shareholders might sell shares could also depress the market price of our ordinary shares. A decline in the price of our ordinary shares might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional ordinary shares or other equity securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 33 Table of Contents 