Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Our earnings may be sensitive to fluctuations in demand for our products. Our earnings can be negatively impacted by declining demand brought on by varying factors, many of which are out of our control. By way of example, our earnings declined significantly in fiscal 2011, largely driven by a decline in demand by end users both domestically and internationally. The severe downturn in the California dairy industry in recent years that resulted from over-supply has had a corresponding negative effect on sales of alfalfa hay. Therefore demand for our alfalfa seed in the domestic market declined during fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2011, demand for our certified seed also severely declined in the Middle East, which historically has been a significant market. The decline was primarily the result of common, uncertified seed flooding the market at lower prices than those at which we were willing to sell our certified seed. As a result of this price competition, the demand for our proprietary seed materially declined in fiscal 2011. Fiscal 2012 saw a rebound as many of these factors corrected themselves, but these circumstances could continue or reoccur, and our earnings could again be negatively impacted. In addition, demand for our products could decline because of ordinary, more expected, supply and quality issues or for any other reason, including products of competitors that might be considered superior by end users. A decline in demand for our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 19 Our earnings may also be sensitive to fluctuations in market prices. Market prices for our alfalfa seed can be impacted by factors such as the quality of the seed and the available supply, including whether lower quality, uncertified seed is available. Growing conditions, particularly weather conditions such as windstorms, floods, droughts and freezes, as well as diseases and pests, are primary factors influencing the quality and quantity of the seed and therefore, the market price at which we can sell our seed to our customers. A decrease in the prices received for our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our cost of seed production is increasing, which could impact our profitability and margins. We have seen our costs of growing seed continue to increase because our growers can elect to grow more profitable crops on their farmland. In order to ensure that we have adequate inventory to satisfy our customers' requirements, we have had to increase the amount we pay our growers or make different contractual arrangements from our historical standard terms. In addition, we have begun to grow some of our seed ourselves, thereby incurring the farming-related costs of production that we avoid when we contract out all of our seed production. These factors, both separately and together, could cause our margins and profitability to decline unless we are able to pass along the increased price of production to our customers. We may not be able to increase the price of our seed sufficiently to maintain our margins and profitability in the future. We could encounter farming-related problems unrelated to natural disasters, crop disease and other normal agricultural risks. In fiscal 2012, we began growing a portion of our own alfalfa seed while still continuing to contract for the majority of our planted acreage with third party farmers. A portion of our direct farming operations are carried out by our own employees on land we lease, and the remainder are performed by third party farmers on their land but under our direction. Some of these arrangements span multiple years, and both direct farming methods carry large financial risks that we do not face when we pay growers for their seed on a per pound basis. When we carry the farming risk, we can expect to incur costs of between $1,300 and $2,200 per acre, regardless of yields. We can and will make decisions that could adversely impact yields or quality, resulting in a smaller supply of seed to sell to our customers and increasing our cost of production to unprofitable levels. As we obtain additional farmland, by lease or purchase, both our farming costs and risks could continue to climb, and as our direct farming operations account for an increasingly significant portion of our seed requirements, the farming decisions we make could have a very negative impact on our results of operations. Our inventory of seed can be adversely affected by the market price being paid for other crops. We rely on unaffiliated growers to grow our proprietary seed and to sell it to us at negotiated prices each year. Growers have a choice of what crops to plant. If a particular crop is paying a materially higher price than has been paid in the past, growers may decide to not grow alfalfa seed in favor of receiving a higher return from an alternative crop planted on the same acreage. Some of our growers who have grown alfalfa seed for us for many years did not grow seed for us in fiscal 2011 in order to make acreage available to plant cotton and reap a portion of the historically high prices being paid for that crop in 2011. If our growers decline to a significant degree to plant the acreage on which we rely, and if we cannot find other growers to plant the lost acreage, our inventory of seed could be insufficient to satisfy the needs of our customers, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could materially decline. In addition, our customers could look to other suppliers for their seed if we cannot satisfy their requirements, and we may not be able to regain them as customers once our inventory levels have returned to normal. Adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, crop disease, pests and other natural conditions can impose significant costs and losses on our business. Alfalfa seed, our primary product, is vulnerable to adverse weather conditions, including windstorms, floods, drought and temperature extremes, which are quite common but difficult to predict. In addition, alfalfa seed is vulnerable to crop disease and to pests, which may vary in severity and effect, depending on the stage of production at the time of infection or infestation, the type of treatment applied and climatic conditions. Unfavorable growing conditions can reduce both crop size and quality. While 20 historically, we have not grown the alfalfa seed we sell, these factors can nevertheless directly impact us by decreasing the quality and yields of our seed, reducing our inventory and supply of seed we sell to our customers. Moreover, beginning in fiscal 2012, we began growing a portion of our alfalfa seed directly as well as farming wheat and alfalfa hay, and therefore, we have a direct vulnerability to the same adverse effects of weather, pests, natural disasters and other natural conditions that concern our third party growers. These factors can increase costs, decrease revenue and lead to additional charges to earnings, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because our alfalfa seed business is highly seasonal, our revenue, cash flows from operations and operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. We expect that the majority of our revenues will continue to be generated from our alfalfa seed business, even though we have recently entered the commercial stevia growing business. Our alfalfa seed business is highly seasonal. The seasonal nature of our operations results in significant fluctuations in our working capital during the growing and selling cycles. As a result, operating activities during the second and third fiscal quarters use significant amounts of cash because we typically pay our growers progressively, starting in the second quarter. In contrast, operating activities for the first and second fiscal quarters typically generate cash as we ship inventory and collect accounts receivable. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant variability in net sales, operating cash flows and net income on a quarterly basis. Because we depend on a core group of significant customers, our sales, cash flows from operations and results of operations may be negatively affected if our key customers reduce the amount of products they purchase from us. Historically, we have relied upon a small group of customers for a large percentage of our net sales, including Sorouh Agricultural Company, which serves the Saudi Arabian market. In fiscal 2012 and 2011, Sorouh accounted for 67% and 18% of our net sales, respectively. We expect that a small number of customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net sales for the foreseeable future. We expect that Sorouh, together with S.C.A.L.E Ag Services, a domestic distributor, will represent a material amount of our sales in fiscal 2013. The loss of, or a significant adverse change in, our relationship with these customers, or any other major customer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and operating cash flows. The loss of, or a reduction in orders from any significant customers, losses arising from customers' disputes regarding shipments, product quality, or related matters, or our inability to collect accounts receivable from any major customer could have a material adverse effect on us. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain the relationships with our major customers or that they will continue to purchase our seed in the quantities that we expect and rely upon. If we cannot do so, our results of operations could suffer. Because we do not grow most of the alfalfa seed that we sell, we are substantially dependent on our network of growers, and our sales, cash flows from operations and results of operations may be negatively affected if our largest growers were to stop supplying seed to us. Historically, we have relied on a relatively small network of growers of alfalfa seed that together have provided all of the seed we sell to our customers. Although beginning in fiscal 2012, we are growing and producing a portion of our own seed, most of our seed will continue to be grown under contracts with farmers, most of which are one year contracts. Three growers collectively accounted for approximately 64% of our total seed purchases in fiscal 2012. Many of our growers have had long-term grower relationships with us. However, we do not have long-term supply contracts with 21 any of these growers, which makes us particularly vulnerable to factors beyond our control. Events such as a shift in pricing caused by an increase in the value of commodity crops other than seed crops, increase in land prices or competition could disrupt our supply chain. Any of these disruptions could limit the supply of seed that we obtain in any given year, adversely affecting supply and thereby lowering revenues. Such disruption could also damage our customer relationships and loyalty to us if we cannot supply the quantity of seed expected by them. We encountered a meaningful shift in our grower network in fiscal 2011, with some of our growers who had grown for us for many years opting to cut back their alfalfa seed acreage or to not grow alfalfa seed at all. This trend continued in fiscal 2012 and will continue in the current fiscal year as Triangle T, one of our longstanding growers, winds down its operations. This situation could reoccur and could negatively impact our revenues if we do not otherwise have sufficient seed inventory available for sale. A lack of availability of water in California's San Joaquin Valley could impact our business. Adequate quantities and correct timing of the application of water are vital for most agriculture to thrive. Whether particular farms are experiencing water shortages depends, in large part, on their location. However, continuing drought conditions can threaten all farmland other than those properties with their own water sources. Although alfalfa seed is not a water-intensive crop, the availability or the cost of water is a factor in the planting of the alfalfa hay grown from our seed. If the dairy farmers and others who purchase our alfalfa seed to grow hay cannot get an adequate supply of water, or if the cost of water makes it uneconomical for the farmers to grow alfalfa, we may not be able to sell our seed, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We cannot predict if water shortages will impact our business in the future, but if alfalfa hay growers are impacted by water shortages, our business could also materially decline. We face intense competition, and our inability to compete effectively for any reason could adversely affect our business. The alfalfa seed market is highly competitive, and our products face competition from a number of small seed companies, as well as large agricultural and biotechnology companies. We also now face new competition with the availability of Roundup Ready alfalfa beginning to be a viable alternative. We compete primarily on the basis of consistency of product quality and traits, product availability, customer service and price. Many of our competitors are, or are affiliated with, large diversified companies that have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than we have. These resources give our competitors greater operating flexibility that, in certain cases, may permit them to respond better or more quickly to changes in the industry or to introduce new products more quickly and with greater marketing support. Increased competition could result in lower profit margins, substantial pricing pressure, reduced market share and lower operating cash flows. Price competition, together with other forms of competition, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and operating cash flows. If we are unable to estimate our customers' future needs accurately and to match our production to the demand of our customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We sell our seed primarily to dealers and distributors who, in turn, sell primarily to hay and dairy farmers who grow hay for dairy cattle and other livestock. Due to the nature of the alfalfa seed industry, we normally produce seed according to our production plan before we sell and deliver seed to distributors and dealers. Our dealers and distributors generally make purchasing decisions for our products based on market prices, economic and weather conditions and other factors that we and our dealers and distributors may not be able to anticipate accurately in advance. If we fail to accurately estimate the volume and types 22 of products sought by the end users and otherwise adequately manage production amounts, we may produce more seed than our dealers and distributors want, resulting in excess inventory levels. On the other hand, if we underestimate demand, which has happened in the past, we may not be able to satisfy our dealers and distributors' demand for alfalfa seed, and thus damage our customer relations and end-user loyalty. Our failure to estimate end users' future needs and to match our production to the demand of our customers may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be unsuccessful in transitioning from selling into international markets through distributors to our new business plan that contemplates direct sales into those markets. Historically, sales of our alfalfa seed in international markets have been made by U.S. distributors having a presence in various international markets, and sales into international markets have historically represented the largest percentage of our net sales of alfalfa seed. In the last quarter of fiscal 2011, our largest international distributor closed its alfalfa seed business. With the cooperation of the former distributor, we began selling directly to its customers in June 2011. Until then, we had never sold directly into Saudi Arabia, Sudan, South Africa, Morocco and Argentina. We have now only had one year of direct experience selling alfalfa seed or otherwise doing business directly in these markets. There is no assurance that we will be able to retain the customers that have purchased our seed from our distributor in the past or that these customers will continue to purchase the quantities of our proprietary seed that they have historically purchased from our distributor. We also may not succeed in expanding the customer base in these locations. Failure to sell significant quantities of alfalfa seed to these customers or to new customers in these or other countries could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We extend credit to customers who currently represent or are expected to represent the largest percentage of our sales. Our largest customer in fiscal 2012 was Sorouh Agricultural Company, which accounted for approximately 67% of our annual revenue. Although payment terms for our seed sales generally are 90 days, we extended credit to this customer in fiscal 2012, and at June 30, 2012, the receivable totaled $2.1 million. We expect that sales of our alfalfa seed varieties to Sorouh will represent a material portion of our revenue in fiscal 2013 and that we will continue to extend credit in connection with those sales. Because this customer is located in Saudi Arabia, collection efforts, were they to become necessary, could be much more difficult and expensive. Moreover, future political and/or economic factors, as well as future unanticipated trade regulations, could negatively impact our ability to timely collect outstanding receivables from this important customer. In addition, we expect that S.C.A.L.E. Ag Services, a domestic distributor, will also account for a material portion of our alfalfa seed revenue in fiscal 2013 and that we will extend credit to this distributor. The extension of credit to our major customers exposes us to the risk that our seed will be delivered but that we may not receive all or a portion of the payment therefor. If either of these customers were unable or unwilling to fully pay for the seed they purchase on credit, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially negatively impacted. Moreover, our internal forecasts on which we make business decisions throughout the year could be severely compromised, which could, in turn, mean that we spend capital for operations, investment or otherwise that we would not have spent had we been aware that the customer would not honor its credit extension obligation. 23 Our current reliance on the seed development and production business does not permit us to spread our business risks among different business segments and, thus, a disruption in our seed production or the industry would harm us more immediately and directly than if we were diversified. We currently operate mainly in the alfalfa seed business, and we do not expect this to change materially in the foreseeable future, even as we expand our commercial stevia business. In fiscal 2012, sale of alfalfa seed accounted for 90% of our total revenue. Without business line diversity, we will not be able to spread the risk of our operations. Therefore, our business opportunities, revenue and income could be more immediately and directly affected by disruptions from such things as drought and disease or widespread problems affecting the alfalfa industry, payment disruptions and customer rejection of our varieties of alfalfa seed. If there is a disruption as described above, our revenue and income could be reduced, and our business operations might have to be scaled back. Moreover, because our stevia operations are also agriculture-based and centered in California's Central Valley where the majority of our alfalfa seed operations are located, it is possible that the same problems that might negatively impact our alfalfa seed business could, at the same time, negatively impact our stevia business. Accordingly, we do not consider our stevia business a hedge against the risks of our alfalfa seed business. If we fail to introduce and commercialize new alfalfa seed varieties, we may not be able to maintain market share, and our future sales may be harmed. We cannot guarantee that the performance of our new alfalfa seed varieties will meet our customers' expectations, or that we will be able to introduce and commercialize specific seed varieties. Reorder rates are uncertain due to several factors, many of which are beyond our control. These include changing customer preferences, which could be further complicated by the new availability of Roundup Ready alfalfa, competitive price pressures, our failure to develop new products to meet the evolving demands of the end users, the development of higher-demand products by our competitors and general economic conditions. The process for new products to gain market recognition and acceptance is long and has uncertainties. If we fail to introduce and commercialize a new seed variety that meets the demand of the end user, if our competitors develop products that are favored by the end users, or if we are unable to produce our existing products in sufficient quantities, our growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected, and our revenue may decline. In addition, sales of our new products could replace sales of some of our current similar products, offsetting the benefit of even a successful product introduction. Deregulation of Roundup Ready alfalfa could negatively impact our sales and production of alfalfa seed. In December 2010, the U.S. Department of Agriculture ("USDA") published the final environmental impact statement on Roundup Ready Alfalfa ("RRA"). Following that publication, in late January 2011, the USDA announced the deregulation of RRA, without imposing any regulations, providing any guidance pertaining to field separation or mandating any other conditions. Forage Genetics, a co-developer of RRA, and other licensed seed companies, had a substantial supply of RRA in inventory that was awaiting this decision, and consequently, RRA became available for the spring 2011 planting season. This development potentially could adversely impact our sales. Domestically, hay farmers may choose the GMO alfalfa seed over our seed in order to control weeds with Roundup, Monsanto's powerful herbicide. The greater the use of GMO seed in California, the greater the risk that our seed production could be contaminated with GMO traits due to pollination from hay fields or other seed feeds. In fiscal 2013, we encountered a minimum number of lots of our seed that tested positive for the presence of GMO traits that could only be sold domestically. Internationally, we may face a challenge to demonstrate to our customers and end users that our seed is free of any cross-contamination between GMO and organic and conventionally-farmed fields since GMO crops currently are prohibited in most of 24 the international markets in which our proprietary seed is currently sold. Unless and until we begin selling RRA, our domestic sales could be negatively impacted, although the actual impact on the alfalfa seed market in general and on sales of our proprietary seed, in particular, is currently unknown. The adoption of GOZ zones in our primary alfalfa seed growing region could impact our international operations. A substantial portion of our alfalfa seed is grown in Fresno County for both domestic and international sales. In January 2012, the National Alfalfa & Forage Alliance held a vote of growers in Fresno County to determine if they should form a Genetically Enhanced ("GE") Grower Opportunity Zone ("GOZ") in part of Fresno County. A GOZ is a seed grower-defined region within which a super-majority of growers (by number of growers or acreage) elects to focus on the production of either Adventitious Presence Sensitive ("APS") or GE alfalfa seed, including Roundup Ready alfalfa. The January 2012 vote to organize the proposed GOZ in Fresno County failed to obtain the required super-majority, and therefore the motion failed. However, there is no assurance that another vote will not be taken and that, at a future meeting, the proposal will not succeed in obtaining the required vote to form a GOZ for GMO alfalfa. If a GOZ were formed in Fresno County or in any other county where we currently produce seed or might produce seed in the future, our efforts to grow conventional alfalfa seed for international sale in such county could be threatened because of the isolation and contamination issues about which we remain concerned. In such circumstance, we might be forced to find alternative locations to grow our proprietary alfalfa seed for sale into Saudi Arabia and other locations that prohibit GMO seed, and there is no assurance that we would be able to do so successfully. Our per acre pricing model could cause us to lose money on those contracts. In fiscal 2012, we entered into three contracts, covering approximately 730 acres, with a grower under which we deviated from our historical model and agreed to pay the grower a fixed price per acre rather than a fixed price per cleaned pound of seed. As such, regardless of the amount of seed this grower produces, we will be required to pay the fixed price per acre. This could result in our paying more per pound of seed than we are able to sell the seed to our customers, thereby causing a loss on this acreage. Moreover, these contracts cover a three year period, and therefore, we could potentially be overpaying for seed on these contracts through crop year 2014 if the grower does not produce the minimum amount of seed we expect. These contracts could negatively impact our results of operations. We are still in the initial stages of our commercial stevia operations, and the business continues to be subject to many of the risks of a new business enterprise. In fiscal 2010, we began expanding our business to include the breeding, selection and planting of high quality stevia varieties for production and processing of stevia leaf for its Rebaudioside A ("Reb-A") extract. We planted our first commercial crop of stevia in fiscal 2011, and undertook the initial harvest in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. We planted additional acreage in the summer of 2012. The second harvest will take place in the summer of 2012. Until these efforts, we had never bred or selected stevia varieties or planted and harvested stevia for commercial purposes. Therefore, we face numerous uncertainties, including the possibility that the stevia seedlings may not grow as anticipated, the stevia varieties we select for production may not produce the results we expect; or we may be unable to satisfactorily contract with customers for our dried stevia product. The failure to build a successful stevia business could materially impact our growth potential and could consume company resources that otherwise could be deployed to further the growth of other aspects of our business. 25 We may not be able to fully recover the costs of our initial stevia operations. Our stevia operations are subject to the same farming risks that other agricultural operations face, including, weather-related events and natural disasters, which, depending on the growth cycle at the time of such event, could materially negatively impact our yields. Our yields also could be negatively impacted by our farming practices. If our yields do not meet our expectations, we could continue to lose money on our stevia operations for the foreseeable future. Although we have a contract in place with a major stevia processor, our costs could exceed the revenue we are able to earn from a particular stevia harvest. As we plant additional stevia acreage, as we expect to do, this risk could become more material. The stevia market may not develop as we anticipate and therefore our investment in stevia may not be as profitable as we expect. There are a number of challenges to market acceptance of stevia as a natural, non-caloric sweetener. Stevia has its own unique flavor, which can affect the taste of some foods and beverages. Other factors that could impact market acceptance include the price structure compared to other sugar substitutes and availability. If the high intensity, non-caloric sweetener market declines or if stevia fails to achieve substantially greater market acceptance than it currently enjoys, we might not be able to grow our revenue sufficiently for us to achieve consistent profitability from this portion of our business. Even if products conform to applicable safety and quality standards, sales could be adversely affected if consumers in target markets lose confidence in the safety, efficacy and quality of stevia. Adverse publicity about stevia or stevia-based products may discourage consumers from buying products that contain stevia. Any of these developments could adversely impact the amount of processed stevia leaves or extract we are able to sell, which could adversely impact our results of operations. If demand for stevia does not increase, there may be excess capacity that could decrease the market price of stevia and reduce our revenue expectations. Historically, stevia has been marketed and sold in the U.S. as a dietary supplement, available in natural food and health food stores. Since December 2008, stevia producers have increased production capacity in expectation of a large demand for stevia products. We started our stevia operation because we expect that demand for stevia will increase significantly in the future, particularly since Reb-A, a stevia extract, has received GRAS (meaning generally accepted as safe) status in the U.S. That determination by the FDA allows Reb-A to be used as a food and beverage additive, and a market for products incorporating stevia has developed and grown since then. However, there can be no assurance that there will continue to be widespread growth in the demand for stevia products. If demand for stevia does not increase to the extent predicted by the industry, the stevia market may be subject to significant excess capacity, which would put downward pressure on the market price of stevia and negatively impact our expectations with respect to stevia as a revenue source. Stevia competes with sugar and other high intensity sweeteners in the global sweetener market, and the success of stevia will largely depend on consumer perception of the positive health implications of stevia relative to other sweeteners. The continued growth of stevia's share of the global sweetener market depends upon consumer acceptance of stevia and stevia-related products and the health implications of consuming stevia relative to other sweetener products. The publication of any studies or revelation of other information that has negative implications regarding the health impacts of consuming stevia may slow or reverse the growth in consumer acceptance of stevia, which may have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition. 26 The sweetener industry is highly competitive with companies that have greater capital resources, facilities and diversity of product lines. Additionally, if demand for stevia continues to grow, we expect many new competitors to enter the market as there are no significant barriers to entry in the industry. More established agricultural companies with much greater financial resources who do not currently compete with us may be able to easily adapt their existing operations to the production of stevia. Due to this competition, there is no assurance that we will not encounter difficulties in earning revenue and gaining market share or in the positioning of our services or that competition in the industry will not lead to reduced prices for the stevia leaf. Our competitors may also introduce new non-stevia based low-calorie sweeteners or be successful in developing a fermentation-derived stevia ingredient or other alternative production method which could also increase competition and decrease demand for stevia-based products. There are difficulties in managing our storage system, which may result in damage to our products held in storage. Alfalfa seed and stevia storage entails risks, including management of moisture, temperature and humidity. Any material storage problem may result in damage to our seed or dried stevia leaf and, thus, could create operating losses. If we are unable to acquire sufficient raw materials or produce sufficient finished product, we will not be able to meet the demands of our customers. We must acquire sufficient alfalfa seed to meet the demands of our customers. An alfalfa seed shortage could result in loss of sales and damage to our reputation. Because our proprietary seed is only available through our direct farming efforts and from our growers, if our growers become unable or unwilling to produce the required commercial quantities of alfalfa seed on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, we will likely be unable to meet customer demand. We do not own or lease sufficient farmland to make up for a significant loss of acreage from our grower network. The failure to satisfy our customers not only could adversely impact our financial results but could irreparably harm our reputation. Although we are just entering the commercial stevia production business, we know we will encounter similar risks if we are unable to satisfy our customers' requirements for dried stevia due to our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of plants, either by growing stevia ourselves or acquiring stevia under contract from growers, are unable to develop stevia plants with the desired specifications or are unable to timely process the stevia to satisfy our customers' needs. In addition, we currently have only a small quantity of acreage allocated to growing stevia plants, and there is no assurance that growers in the San Joaquin Valley will decide in future growing seasons that growing stevia is the best use for their land. If we are unable to contract for a sufficient amount of acreage to grow stevia or to acquire through lease or purchase land on which we could grow stevia plants, we may not be able to capitalize on what we currently believe could be a meaningful growth opportunity. The loss of key employees or the failure to attract qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to run our business. The loss of any of our current executives, key employees or key advisors, or the failure to attract, integrate, motivate and retain additional key employees, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we have employment agreements with our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and chief operating officer, any employee could leave our employ if he chose to do so. We do not carry "key person" insurance on the lives of any of our management team. As we develop additional capabilities, we may require more skilled personnel who must be highly skilled and have a sound understanding of our industry, business or processing requirements. Recruiting skilled personnel is highly competitive. Although to date we have been successful in recruiting and retaining qualified personnel, 27 there can be no assurance that we will continue to attract and retain the personnel needed for our business. The failure to attract or retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to manage our expansion of operations effectively. We expect our operations to grow rapidly in the near future, both as we expand our historical alfalfa seed business both domestically and internationally, expand our mill utilization, increase our growers' production, and as we develop and expand our stevia production and sales business. We also are looking to expand our business through acquisition of synergistic companies. These efforts will require the addition of employees, expansion of facilities and greater oversight, perhaps in diverse locations. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute on our business strategies or respond to competitive pressures, and we may have difficulties maintaining and updating the internal procedures and the controls necessary to meet the planned expansion of our overall business. Our management will also be required to maintain and expand our relationships with customers, suppliers and third parties as well as attract new customers and suppliers. We expect that our sales and marketing costs will increase as we grow our product lines and as we increase our sales efforts in new and existing markets. There is no assurance that our current and planned operations, personnel, systems and internal procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future growth. Changes in government policies and laws could adversely affect international sales and therefore, our financial results. Other than in fiscal 2011, which we believe was an abnormal year, historically sales to our distributors who sell our proprietary alfalfa seed varieties outside the U.S. have constituted a substantial portion of our annual revenue. We anticipate that sales into international markets will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales and that continued growth and profitability will require further international expansion, particularly in the Middle East and Africa. Our financial results could be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of U.S. and non-U.S. governments, agencies and similar organizations. These conditions include but are not limited to changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, trade regulations affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, local labor conditions and regulations, reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries, changes in the regulatory or legal environment, burdensome taxes and tariffs and other trade barriers. International risks and uncertainties, including changing social and economic conditions as well as terrorism, political hostilities and war, could lead to reduced distribution of our products into international markets and reduced profitability associated with such sales. Insurance covering warranty claims may become unavailable or be inadequate. Defective seed could result in warranty claims and negative publicity. Although we carry general liability insurance to cover warranty claims, such coverage may become unavailable or be inadequate. Even if coverage is offered, it may be at a price and on terms not acceptable to us. If claims exceed coverage limits, or if insurance is not available to us, the occurrence of significant claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 28 We may be exposed to product quality claims, which may cause us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, may cause us to pay significant damage awards. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to our seed or dried stevia leaf quality. The defense of these proceedings and claims can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert efforts and resources of our management personnel. An adverse determination in any such proceeding could subject us to significant liability and damage our market reputation and prevent us from achieving increased sales and market share. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase of our products. The current global economic downturn could result in a decrease in our sales and revenue, which could adversely affect the results of our operations, and we cannot predict the extent or duration of these trends. The global economic downturn of the past several years has significantly impacted the agricultural industry, with many farmers losing their farms or laying fallow their fields, as well as other negative impacts. The full impact of the current global economic downturn on growers, customers, vendors and other business partners cannot be known with any certainty. For example, major customers may have financial challenges unrelated to us that could result in a decrease in their business with us or, in extreme cases, cause them to file for bankruptcy protection. Similarly, parties to contracts may be forced to breach their obligations under those contracts. Although we exercise prudent oversight of the financial strength of our major business partners and seek to diversify our risk to any single business partner, there can be no assurance that there will not be a grower, customer or other business partner that is unable to meet its contractual commitments to us. Similarly, stresses and pressures in the industry may result in impacts on our business partners and competitors that could have wide ranging impacts on the future of the industry. Capital and credit market issues could negatively affect our liquidity, increase our costs of borrowing and disrupt the operations of our growers and customers. The capital and credit markets have experienced increased volatility and disruption over the past several years, making it more difficult for companies to access those markets. Although we believe that our operating cash flows, recent access to the capital market and our untapped line of credit will permit us to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that continued or increased volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets will not impair our liquidity or increase our costs of borrowing, if we need to access the credit market. Our business could also be negatively impacted if our growers or customers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets or a continued slowdown in the general economy. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business and prospects may be harmed. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent upon the proprietary nature of the seeds, seedlings, processes, technologies and materials owned by or used by us or our growers. If any competitors independently develop new traits, seeds, seedlings, processes or technologies that customers or end users determine are better than our existing products, such developments could adversely affect our competitive position. We do not rely upon patent protection, but guard our proprietary property by exercising a high degree of control over the alfalfa seed supply chain, as well as over our stevia material. However, because we do not have more formal proprietary rights protections in place, it would be possible for persons with access to our seed or plants grown from our seed to reproduce and market our proprietary seed varieties, which could significantly harm our business and our reputation. Litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary property and determine the validity and scope of the proprietary 29 rights of competitors. Intellectual property litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management and other resources. If we are unable to successfully protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors could be able to market products that compete with our proprietary products without obtaining a license from us. Risks Related to Investment in Our Securities The value of our common stock and Class A and Class B warrants can be volatile. The overall market and the price of our common stock and Class A and Class B warrants can fluctuate greatly. The trading price of our common stock and Class A and Class B warrants may be significantly affected by various factors, including: ● economic status and trends in the dairy industry, which underlies domestic demand for our alfalfa seed; ● market conditions for alfalfa seed in the Middle East, where a substantial amount of our seed historically has been purchased by end users; ● quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; ● our ability to meet the earnings estimates and other performance expectations of investors or financial analysts; ● fluctuations in the stock prices of our peer companies or in stock markets in general; and ● general economic or political conditions. Our quarter-to-quarter performance may vary substantially, and this variance, as well as general market conditions, may cause our stock price to fluctuate greatly and potentially expose us to litigation. Our alfalfa seed business, our primary source of revenue, is highly seasonal because it is tied to the growing and harvesting seasons. Typically, a substantial portion of our revenue is recognized during our first and second fiscal quarters. We generally experience lower revenue during our third and fourth fiscal quarters. Sales in the first and second fiscal quarters accounted for approximately 77% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 and accounted for 51% of our revenue in fiscal 2011. If sales in these quarters are lower than expected, expenses may not be offset, which would adversely affect our operating results and would have a disproportionately large impact on our operating results for that fiscal year. Our future expense estimates are based, in large part, on estimates of future revenue, which are difficult to predict. We expect to continue to make significant expenditures in order to expand production, sales, marketing and administrative systems and processes. We may be unable to, or may elect not to, adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. If our increased expenses are not accompanied by increased revenue in the same quarter, our quarterly operating results would be harmed. In one or more future quarters, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of investors or analysts, and the trading price of our securities may decline as a consequence. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results will not be a good indication of our future performance and should not be relied upon to predict the future performance of our stock price. 30 In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have often been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. The redemption of the Class A warrants or Class B warrants may require warrantholders to sell or exercise the those warrants at a time that may be disadvantageous for them. At any time after November 3, 2010, provided that our common stock has closed at a price at least equal $8.80 for five consecutive trading days, we may redeem the outstanding Class A warrants, in whole or in part, upon not less than 30 days' notice, at a price of $0.25 per warrant. Our Class B warrants are redeemable, in whole or in part, for $0.25 upon 30 days' notice after November 3, 2010, provided that our common stock has closed at a price at least equal to $13.75. The terms of our warrants prohibit us from redeeming them unless we have a current and effective registration statement available covering the exercise of the warrants. In the event we exercise our right to redeem either the Class A warrants or the Class B warrants, those warrants will be exercisable until the close of business on the date fixed for redemption in such notice. If any warrant called for redemption is not exercised by such time, it will cease to be exercisable, and the holder thereof will be entitled only to the redemption price of $0.25 per warrant. Notice of redemption of the public warrants could force holders to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for them to do so or to sell the warrants at the current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants or accept the redemption price, which is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants at the time of redemption. While the Class A and Class B warrants are outstanding, it may be more difficult to raise additional equity capital. During the term that the Class A warrants and Class B warrants are outstanding, the holders of those warrants are given the opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock. We may find it more difficult to raise additional equity capital while these warrants are outstanding. Also, we may be forced to honor the exercise of the warrants at times when we may be able to obtain additional equity capital on more favorable terms from other sources. Future sales or the potential for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could cause the trading price of our common stock and warrants to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through subsequent equity offerings. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our stock and redeemable warrants to decline and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. For example, the grant of a large number of stock options or other securities under an equity incentive plan or the sale of our securities in private placement transactions at a discount from market value could adversely affect the market price of our common stock or warrants. If we issue shares of preferred stock, your investment could be diluted or subordinated to the rights of the holders of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors is authorized by our Articles of Incorporation to establish classes or series of preferred stock and fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such class or series without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Any shares of preferred stock so issued could have priority over our common stock with respect to dividend or liquidation rights. Although we 31 have no plans to issue any shares of preferred stock or to adopt any new series, preferences or other classification of preferred stock, any such action by our Board of Directors or issuance of preferred stock by us could dilute your investment in our common stock or subordinate your holdings to the higher priority rights of the holders of shares of preferred stock issued in the future. If we do not maintain an effective registration statement or comply with applicable state securities laws, warrantholders may not be able to exercise the Class A or Class B warrants. For holders of our Class A and Class B warrants to be able to exercise those securities, the exercise must be covered by an effective and current registration statement and qualify or be exempt under the securities laws of the state or other jurisdiction in which the warrantholders live. Although we will endeavor to have a current registration statement available at all times when the warrants are in-the-money, warrantholders may encounter circumstances in which they will be unable to exercise the Class A or Class B warrants. We can give no assurance that we will be able to continue to maintain a current registration statement relating to the shares of our common stock underlying the redeemable warrants or that an exemption from registration or qualification will be available throughout their term. This may have an adverse effect on demand for the redeemable warrants and the prices that can be obtained from reselling them. Our principal stockholder will continue to have substantial control over our company, which could limit the ability of our other stockholders to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change in control, and could result in the approval of transactions that would be adverse to their interests. Yellowjacket, LP, our largest stockholder, owns 1,897,605 shares, or approximately 25%, of our outstanding common stock as of September 25, 2012. Although its ownership interest will decline, if outstanding stock options or warrants are exercised or if we sell additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock, Yellowjacket can, for the foreseeable future, have significant influence over our management and affairs and will be able to control virtually all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions such as mergers or other sales of our company or assets. Its interests could differ from ours and those of our other stockholders. In addition, the concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance. Although we have not provided earnings guidance to date, from time to time, we may release guidance in our quarterly earnings releases, quarterly earnings conference call, or otherwise, regarding our future performance that represent our management's estimates as of the date of release. If given, this guidance, which includes forward-looking statements, will be based on projections prepared by our management. These projections are not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our registered public accountants nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the projections and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. If we issue guidance, we will generally state possible outcomes as high and low ranges that are intended to provide a sensitivity 32 analysis as variables are changed but are not intended to represent that actual results could not fall outside of the suggested ranges. The principal reason that we would release guidance would be to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such persons. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance, if given, is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from our guidance and the variations may be material. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged not to rely upon, or otherwise consider, our guidance in making an investment decision in respect of our common stock, Class A warrants or Class B warrants. Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth in our "Risk Factors" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could result in the actual operating results being different from our guidance, and such differences may be adverse and material. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 