D. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves significant risks. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report, including our consolidated and other financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report, before you decide to purchase our securities. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, the trading price and value of our securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to our Company and the PRC Hydroelectric Power Industry We have a limited operating history which provides limited reference for you to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objectives. We were formed in July 2006 as a Cayman Islands exempted company with limited liability without any operating business. We have acquired a total of twenty-six operating hydroelectric power projects and will continue to carry out our acquisition strategy in China. Our financial condition, results of operations and our future success will, to a significant extent, depend on our ability to continue to acquire and, develop hydroelectric power projects throughout China and to achieve significant economies of scale. Our company has a limited operating history and is subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with early stage companies. Accordingly, you will have a limited basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objectives. We cannot assure you that more acquisitions can be consummated on terms favorable to us or at all, or that if we achieve those acquisitions we will be able to operate our expanded business profitably. We also may not successfully complete the greenfield projects we undertake to develop given our lack of experience developing greenfield projects, which refer to projects that lack one or more construction permits and have not begun construction. If we fail to achieve our business objectives, then we may 9 not be able to realize our expected revenue growth, maintain our existing revenue levels or operate at a profit. Even if we do realize our business objectives, our business may not be profitable in the future. Our business is dependent upon hydrological conditions, which may from time to time result in conditions that are unfavorable to our business operations. Our hydroelectric power generating prospects are dependent upon hydrological conditions prevailing from time to time in the broad geographic regions in which our existing and future hydroelectric power projects are located. There can be no assurance that the water flows at our existing and future sites will be consistent with our expectations, or that climatic and environmental conditions will not change significantly from the prevailing conditions at the time our projections were made. Water flows vary each year, and depend on factors such as rainfall, snowfall, rate of snowmelt and seasonal changes. Our existing and future hydroelectric power projects may be subject to substantial variations in climatic and hydrological conditions which may reduce water flow and thus our ability to generate electricity. While we have selected and will continue to select our hydroelectric power projects for acquisition in part on the basis of their projected outputs, the actual water flow required to produce those outputs may not exist or be sustained. For example, utilization at all our hydroelectric power projects in 2007 was below our forecast due to low levels of precipitation during the year throughout China. If hydrological conditions result in droughts or other conditions that negatively affect our existing or proposed hydroelectric generation business, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The operation of our hydroelectric power projects and customer demand for our power may be vulnerable to disruptions caused by natural and man-made disasters, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our hydroelectric power projects could be required to cease operating in the event of a drought, and to cease operating or even be damaged in the event of a flood. Water supply to our hydroelectric power projects and the projects themselves are vulnerable to natural disasters including, but not limited to, earthquakes, storms, tornadoes and floods, as well as disasters caused by human actions such as terrorist attacks, military conflicts and other deliberate or inadvertent actions which may affect the availability of water supplies or water flow to our hydroelectric power projects. For example, in 1988, heavy floods occurred in Zhejiang province, causing large scale damage to dams and the water supply system. A severe snowstorm in Zhejiang province in 2008 interrupted the transmission system in the area and contributed to the decrease in the effective utilization rate of Shapulong that year. In 2008, a major earthquake struck Sichuan province, causing great loss of life and property and disruption to the local economy. The earthquake in 2008 caused damage to the tailwater concrete apron and the spillway gates of Liyuan hydroelectric power project and the repair of such damage cost RMB11.7 million ($1.7 million) and was completed in March 2010. Our hydroelectric power projects located in Yunnan province, Sichuan province and Fujian province are all in areas of relatively high seismic risk as compared to other areas of China. Such disasters are unpredictable and can significantly damage our access to water supply and power plant equipment as well as the property of our consumers. Under such circumstances, market demand for power in general may be significantly and adversely affected, reducing the need for the electricity we produce, and we may be unable to continue operation of our plants or to produce the level of electricity we expect. The insurance coverage we maintain may not be adequate to compensate us for all damages and economic losses which may arise in connection with these disasters. Such disruption to our operations could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We may encounter difficulties in identifying suitable acquisition opportunities, which would result in us being dependent upon our current portfolio of hydroelectric power projects and having limited revenue growth potential. Our ability to implement our acquisition strategy will depend on a number of factors, in particular, our ability to identify suitable acquisition targets and reach agreements with vendors for 10 acceptable consideration and on commercially reasonable terms. We believe identifying and acquiring projects on reasonable terms may be more difficult in the future as domestic and international competitors seek to acquire small hydroelectric power projects in China. If we are unable to acquire suitable hydroelectric power projects in China, we will continue to remain dependent upon a our existing hydroelectric power projects. This may: • result in our dependence upon the performance of our existing operating plants; • result in our dependence upon electricity sales in the existing geographical areas; • subject us to increased risks associated with drought or other natural disasters in the existing geographical areas we operate; and • limit our ability to grow our revenues and to obtain the benefits of scale that we anticipate. Greenfield projects and projects under construction present substantial development, construction, start-up and partnership risks, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. Greenfield projects, in particular the Wuyue pumped storage facility, and projects under construction, present substantial development risk. The development and construction of hydroelectric power projects is time-consuming and complex and requires significant capital investment. In connection with the development and construction of hydroelectric power projects, we will seek to obtain government permits and approvals, land purchase or leasing agreements, equipment procurement and construction contracts, operation and maintenance agreements, and sufficient equity capital and debt financing. Factors that may impair our ability to develop and construct hydroelectric power projects include: • delays in obtaining various regulatory approvals, licenses or permits from different governmental authorities at different levels, including permission for the construction and operation of the hydroelectric power project itself, the environmental permits and permits to use the relevant land; • shortages or increases in the cost of equipment, materials or labor; • adverse weather conditions, which may delay the completion of hydroelectric power projects or substations, or natural disasters, accidents or other unforeseen events; • unforeseen engineering, design, environmental or geological problems; • opposition of local interests; • strikes and labor disputes; • inability to obtain financing on satisfactory terms; and • adverse changes in the PRC regulatory environment. Any of these factors may cause delays in completion of hydroelectric power projects and may increase the cost of contemplated projects. If we are unable to complete the projects contemplated, the costs incurred in connection with such projects may not be recoverable. Even if we complete these projects, as a result of project delays, cost overruns, changes in market circumstances or other reasons, we may not be able to achieve the intended economic benefits or demonstrate the commercial viability of these projects, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. In addition, the commencement of operations at a newly constructed hydroelectric power project involves many risks, including start-up problems, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency and problems with the construction of new supporting infrastructure, such as grid transmission equipment. While manufacturers’ warranties are generally obtained for limited periods relating to each project and its equipment in varying degrees, and construction contractors may guarantee certain performance levels, subject to the payment of liquidated damages, the proceeds of such warranties or performance guarantees, if any, may not be adequate to cover lost revenues or increased costs and 11 expenses associated with equipment problems during project start-up. We also may develop projects with local development partners, which exposes us to risks associated with our partners’ failure to retain development rights, obtain permits and approvals required for the development of a project or perform their management, construction or financing obligations. Realization of any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. We derive our revenues solely from the sale of hydroelectric power electricity and each of our projects typically has only one customer. Any prolonged disruption to the demand for hydropower or termination of a customer relationship may cause our revenues to decrease significantly. We derive revenues solely from the sale of electricity generated by hydroelectric power projects, and most of our power is sold to one of two national power grids. If for any reason the national power grids reduce or eliminate their purchases of hydropower, whether due to the emergence of a cheaper renewable energy source, withdrawal of government policy support for the dispatch of renewable energy or a severe drop in the PRC’s demand for power, we may not have alternative customers readily available to us. Without alternative sources of income, our revenues would decrease significantly should a reduction in demand for hydropower or lack of customers continue for a prolonged period. Failure to renew the power purchase agreement could result in a reduction or complete loss of revenues from the hydroelectric power project, which would have a materially adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and net cash used in operating activities. Our power purchase agreements with the local grids to which our hydroelectric power projects are connected generally have terms of one to five years. Some of these agreements provide for automatic renewal while others do not. If we should be unable to renegotiate a power purchase agreement with the local grid, it is unlikely we would be able to obtain alternative customers for the power generated by the project, as only one grid is available to each hydroelectric power project and there are no neighboring industrial sites ready to take up the power. We depend on the experience of our executive officers and our business may be severely disrupted in the event that we lose their services and are unable to find replacements with comparable experience and expertise. We believe that our future success is dependent upon the continued services of our executive officers, as we rely on their industry experience and expertise in our business operations. In particular, we rely heavily on John D. Kuhns, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. You-Su Lin, Chairman of Beijing A.B.C. Investment, and “James” Tie Li, our Chief Financial Officer and President, for their business vision, management skills and technical expertise in the hydroelectric industry as well as their working relationships with many of our potential acquisition targets, the power grids we service and other participants in the hydroelectric industry. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our executive officers. If any of these executive officers were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, or if they left our company, we may not be able to replace them with comparably skilled executives, which would cause severe disruption to our ability to manage our business. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment or other agreement with us, which contains confidentiality and non-competition provisions. However, if any disputes were to arise with respect to such agreement, even if the executive left our company to join or form a competing entity, we cannot assure you of the extent to which such person’s agreement could be enforced in China because the Chinese legal system, especially with respect to the enforcement of such provisions, is still developing. If we are unable to retain or replace our key personnel and other key employees, we may not be able to implement our business strategy and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 12 We will need additional funding to accomplish our growth strategy and may be unable to raise capital on terms favorable to us or at all, which could increase our financing costs, dilute your ownership interests, affect our business operations or force us to delay, reduce or abandon our growth strategy. Our growth strategy is to acquire and develop additional hydroelectric power projects in China and expand those projects with potential for expansion. To successfully implement this growth strategy, we will need to raise additional funds. Our ability to arrange financing and the cost of such financing are dependent on numerous factors, including but not limited to: • general economic and capital market conditions; • the availability of credit from banks or other lenders; • investor confidence in us; and • the continued performance of our hydroelectric power projects. We cannot predict when, if ever, our operations will generate sufficient cash flows to fund our capital investment requirements. Until they do, we will be required to finance our cash needs through public or private equity offerings, bank loans or other debt financing, or otherwise. We currently intend to increase our levels of debt financing to optimize our capital structure. There can be no assurance that international or domestic financing for future power plant acquisitions, development and expansion of existing hydroelectric power projects will be available on terms favorable to us or at all, which could force us to delay, reduce or abandon our growth strategy, increase our financing costs, or both. Additional funding from debt financings may make it more difficult for us to operate our business because we would need to make principal and interest payments on the indebtedness and may be obligated to abide by restrictive covenants contained in the debt financing agreements, which may, among other things, limit our ability to make business and operational decisions and pay dividends. Furthermore, raising capital through public or private sales of equity to finance acquisitions or expansion could cause earnings or ownership dilution to your shareholding interests in our company. Assumptions applied to our investment analyses and feasibility studies may not be accurate, and thus our actual return on investments, operational results, and overall growth may be materially and adversely affected. In performing investment analysis and feasibility studies for our acquisition and development targets, we consider factors such as: (i) demand for power and growth potential in the province where the hydroelectric power projects is located, (ii) increase in power generation capacity in the locality, (iii) the average tariff of hydroelectric power projects of similar types and capacity, (iv) quality of transmission systems to the local power grids, (v) facilities and technology at the power plant and (vi) ability to retain existing debt financing for the plant or obtain new financing. However, much of the information we rely on in preparing these analyses is provided by the sellers of the plants. With the rapid development of the PRC hydroelectric power industry in recent years, there is some increased risk of plants being built based on inaccurate or incomplete technical data. As a result, the assumptions we use to perform our internal investment analyses and feasibility studies may not be accurate or complete. If any one of our observations or assumptions, or a combination thereof, proves to be inaccurate, then our estimated returns on investments, operational results and our overall growth may be materially adversely affected. The operations of our hydroelectric power projects may be adversely affected by the failure of key equipment, civil structures or transmission systems, which could result in lost revenues, increased maintenance costs and our owing damages to our customers for lost revenues. The breakdown of generation equipment or failure of other key equipment or of a civil structure in one or more of our hydroelectric power projects could disrupt the generation of electricity and result in revenues being lower than expected. Further, any breakdown or failure of 13 one or more of our transmission systems could disrupt transmission of electricity by a power plant to the power grid. We have in the past experienced an equipment breakdown at two of our hydroelectric power projects, resulting in temporary suspensions of electricity generation and distribution. Repair of such breakdowns may take one or two days or up to a month, depending on the nature of the problem and availability of spare parts. In addition, if the problem is related to the grid, we will not be able to dispatch our power until the grid carries out the necessary repairs. A portion of the generation facilities that we have acquired, or may acquire in the future, were, or may have been, constructed many years ago. Older generating equipment may require significant capital expenditure to keep it operating efficiently. Such equipment is also likely to require periodic upgrading and improvement. Breakdown or failure of one of our plants also may prevent us from performing under the applicable power sales agreement which, in certain situations, could result in termination of the agreement or incurring liability for liquidated damages. These events may reduce our ability to generate power, resulting in loss of revenues and increased maintenance costs. Our power generating operations may be adversely affected by operational risks, which may result in uninsured losses. Operating hydroelectric power projects involves many risks and hazards which may be beyond our control and could cause significant business interruptions, personal injuries and property or environmental damage, and could increase power generating costs at affected hydroelectric power projects for an unknown duration. These risks include but are not limited to: • failure of power transmission systems; • unexpected maintenance or technical problems; • human error; • failure of our mechanical, software or monitoring systems; and • industrial accidents. The occurrence of any of these events, and the consequences resulting from them, may not be covered adequately or at all by our insurance policies. We do not currently carry any third-party liability insurance, business interruption insurance or insurance covering environmental damage arising from accidents on our property or relating to our operations. See “Information on the Company—Insurance”. Uninsured losses incurred or payments we may be required to make may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations may be interrupted by realization of unexpected risks or difficulties in integrating acquired businesses, which could interrupt our existing business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our continued growth and ability to leverage our management expertise depend on the successful implementation of our acquisition strategy. We cannot assure you that any particular acquisition will produce the intended benefits. For instance, if we fail to integrate an acquired project into our operations successfully, or the synergies expected from an integration ultimately fail to materialize, then our existing business operations may be interrupted. We may have as a result expended significant management time, capital and other resources to the transaction, which interrupted our existing business operations. Risks which may be incurred through acquisitions include, but are not limited to: • potential construction or engineering problems which may expose us to severe economic loss or legal liabilities and require substantial expenditure from us to remediate; • unforeseen or hidden liabilities, including exposure to legal proceedings, associated with newly acquired companies; • failure to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions; 14 • potential impairment losses and amortization expenses relating to goodwill and intangible assets arising from any of such acquisitions, which may materially reduce our net income or result in a net loss; and • possible contravention of Chinese regulations applicable to such acquisitions. Any one or a combination of the above risks could interrupt our existing business and materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our growth strategy is dependent upon our ability to manage our growth effectively which, if unsuccessful, could result in a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business and operations have been expanding rapidly. The success of our growth strategy depends in part upon our ability to manage our rapid growth, including, for example, our ability to assimilate management of acquired plants into our own management structure, to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees, to establish and maintain adequate financial control and reporting systems and other systems and processes, and to manage a rapidly growing and much larger operation. We cannot assure you that we will be able to: • expand our systems and processes effectively or efficiently or in a timely manner; • allocate our human resources optimally or reduce headcount without experiencing community protest, strike or other social unrest; • identify and hire qualified employees or retain valued employees; • incorporate effectively hydroelectric power projects in various stages of development that we may acquire; • maintain good relationship with power grids; or • centralize and improve the efficiency of the management and operations of the hydroelectric power projects acquired. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, then our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. On-grid tariffs are set based on regulatory guidance, actual supply of electricity to a power grid and regional demand for electricity, and changes in these factors may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We make all of our electricity sales to power grids and such sales are subject to on-grid tariffs. Since April 2001, the Chinese government has gradually implemented a new on-grid tariff setting mechanism based on the actual costs of power projects as well as the average costs of comparable power projects that were constructed during the same period within the same provincial power grid. This on-grid tariff setting mechanism was intended to replace the old mechanism for setting on-grid tariffs for planned output. Based on our experience, the determination of such average costs usually takes into consideration such factors as: • construction costs, which vary according to the installed capacity of the individual power projects; • operating and administrative expenses; • maintenance and repair costs of power projects; and • interest expense on outstanding debts. Based on the factors listed above, we receive lower tariffs in comparison to thermal power projects because we have (i) minimal fuel costs and (ii) lower operating and capital construction costs. Any future reductions in our tariffs, or inability to obtain higher tariffs, for example, to cover any increased costs we may have to incur, as a result of the on-grid tariff-setting mechanism or a change to such on-grid tariff-setting mechanism may adversely affect our revenues and profits. In some regions we negotiate annually with the local grid operators the on-grid tariff for our power 15 before applying to the government for approval of the tariff, while in other regions the tariff is set by agreement between the power grid and the government. In addition, the price for electric power sold to end consumers is fixed in China because the sales price of electricity is uniformly formulated by the National Development and Reform Commission. Thus, we must estimate the price at which the National Development and Reform Commission will allow power grids to sell electricity and set our prices so that, from the power grids’ perspective, their cost for our electricity is acceptable when considered with the costs of other power producers on the grid. Thus, although our on-grid tariffs are lower than those for thermal power projects, the tariff levels we obtain from local grids may still be impacted by changes in the cost of generating thermal power and actual regional demand for power. In addition, if demand for electricity rises beyond expectations, then we cannot raise our prices accordingly to benefit from the increased demand. If actual sales prices are significantly below our estimates for such sales prices, then our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If less than all of the electricity we generate is dispatched by the grids, our future revenues will be reduced. Our profitability depends, in part, upon each of our hydroelectric power projects generating electricity at a level sufficient to meet or exceed the planned generation agreed with our local dispatch company, which in turn will be subject to local demand for electric power and dispatching to the grids by the dispatch centers of the local grid companies. The dispatch of electric power generated by a power project is controlled by the dispatch centers of the applicable grid companies pursuant to a dispatch agreement with us and pursuant to governmental dispatch regulations. In each of the markets in which we operate, we compete against other power projects for power sales, and dispatch is allocated based on actual demand from the grid. No assurance can be given that the dispatch centers will dispatch the full amount of the planned generation of our power projects. A reduction by the dispatch centers in the amount of electric power dispatched relative to our hydroelectric power projects’ planned generation could have a material adverse effect on our power generation and thus reduce our revenues. Compliance with environmental regulations can be costly, and we may become subject to further environmental compliance requirements in connection with our operations, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are required to comply with PRC national and local regulations regarding environmental protection for the construction and operation of our hydroelectric power projects. For all of our existing hydroelectric power projects, we have applied for all the environmental permits that are necessary under current PRC laws and regulations to conduct our business, but have not obtained some of the environmental permits from the relevant governmental authorities yet. Furthermore, to the extent that our existing hydroelectric power projects may have been in compliance with PRC environmental protection laws and regulations at the time they were constructed, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not require retroactive application of current laws and regulations to such old plants. Compliance with environmental regulations can be very expensive, and non-compliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity, potentially significant monetary damages and fines and suspension of our business operations. In addition, if more stringent regulations are adopted in the future, the costs of compliance with these new regulations could be substantial. If we fail to comply with any future environmental regulations, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or even cease operations. We do not carry any insurance for damages resulting from failure to comply with environmental regulations. In addition, China currently has no minimum flow requirements such as those that have been implemented by other countries that employ hydroelectric power. The purpose of minimum flow requirements is to ensure that there is enough water upstream and downstream for other users, and for navigation, fish and other wildlife. China may implement minimum flow requirements in the future, and to the extent we do not have sufficient water supply due to such minimum flow requirements, we may have to reduce our power generation or cease operation of the affected 16 plants, as a result of which our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our business and business prospects rely in part on policy support from the PRC government, and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if we lose such support. National, provincial and local governments in China support the expansion of hydroelectric power, which eases the approval process for facility acquisition, construction and financing. Under the PRC Renewable Energy Law, Catalogue for the Guidance of Foreign Investment Industries, the Eleventh Five-year Plan of the Development of Renewable Energy Resources and other relevant laws, expansion of both large- and small-scale hydroelectric power production is one of the priorities for the development of the nation’s power supply, and foreign investment in the sector is encouraged. We currently enjoy several types of government support, including provision of bank loans, sometimes at lower interest rates than those borne by other private companies, policy support for local grids to purchase all the power we generate and lower levels of VAT levied on small hydropower production in some provinces where we have operations. If for any reason, such as development of new energy production technologies or migration to other renewable energy sources, China removes such policy support, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Competition in the PRC power industry may increase, and our results of operations and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to compete effectively. We compete in the Chinese domestic market with other PRC power generation companies. The five biggest power companies in China, namely, China Huaneng Group, China Datang Group, China Huadian Group, China Guodian Group and China Power Investment Group, collectively operated 47.7% of China’s total power generation installed capacity by the end of 2009, according to the State Electricity Regulatory Commission, and the 30 largest power companies in China collectively operated 70.43%. These power companies and a number of other power producers have substantially greater financial, infrastructure or other resources than we do. We may also face competition from new entrants to the hydropower industry having business objectives similar to ours, including venture capital and private equity funds, leveraged buyout funds, and other operating businesses that may offer more advanced technological capabilities or that have greater financial resources. The ability of our competitors to access resources that we cannot access may prevent us from acquiring additional hydropower projects in strategic locations or from increasing our generating capacity. There is also increasing competition among operating power projects for increases in dispatched output, higher on-grid tariffs and land use rights. If we are unable to compete successfully, our growth opportunities to increase generating capacity may be limited and our revenue and profitability may be adversely affected. In recent years, the ongoing reform of the PRC power industry has included experimental programs to set on-grid tariffs through competitive bidding among thermal power projects. The tariffs determined by competitive bidding may be lower than the pre-approved tariffs for planned output. In the future, competitive bidding may extend to hydroelectric power projects and further increase price competition among domestic power generation companies. We cannot assure you that increased competition in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and growth prospects. Our business depends on the competitiveness of hydroelectric power generation in relation to other forms of electric power generation. Fewer hydroelectric power projects may be built and less electricity from hydroelectric power sources may be sold if fossil fuel prices decline significantly or if other renewable energy sources become less expensive than hydroelectric power, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. The demand for power projects that produce electricity from renewable energy sources such as water depends in part on the cost of generation from other sources of energy. The terms under 17 which supplies of petroleum, coal, natural gas and other fossil fuels, as well as uranium, can be obtained are key factors in determining the economic interest of using these energy sources rather than renewable energy sources. The principal energy sources in competition with renewable energy sources are petroleum, coal, natural gas and nuclear energy. The high price levels for fossil fuels, in particular, petroleum and natural gas, can enhance the price competitiveness of electricity from renewable energy sources. A decline in the competitiveness of electricity from renewable energy sources in terms of cost of generation, technological progress in the exploitation of other energy sources, discovery of large new deposits of oil, gas or coal, or a decline in prices of those fuels, could weaken demand for electricity generated from renewable energy sources. In the renewable energy sector, competition primarily exists with regard to factors such as bidding for available sites, performance of sites in generation, quality of technologies used, price of power produced and scope and quality of services provided, including operation and maintenance services. A decline in the competitiveness of electricity generated from hydroelectric sources in terms of such factors could weaken demand for hydroelectric power. Should hydroelectric power production become uncompetitive with other forms of renewable energy production, or if fossil fuel production becomes more cost competitive, the construction of hydroelectric power projects may slow, thus reducing our pool of potential acquisition targets and limiting our ability to grow our operations. Certain of our operating subsidiaries are parties to loan agreements that provide for lender rights that may adversely affect our ability to operate our business and restrict our ability to pay dividends and we could be materially adversely affected if our lenders accelerate our debt due to our current or future failures to comply with our loan agreements. Pursuant to loan agreements to which certain of our operating subsidiaries are a party, our lenders have rights that include the following: (i) restricting the borrower during the term of the loan from undertaking any shareholding change or restructuring without obtaining prior approval of the lender; (ii) restricting the borrower from undertaking investment, asset transfer or pledging or mortgaging its assets without obtaining prior approval of the lender; (iii) restricting the borrower from paying dividends until the loan is fully repaid; and (iv) placing the borrower’s power generation revenues into escrow until the loan is repaid. These restrictions may prevent us from disposing of or restructuring the ownership of our hydroelectric power projects, and limit the funds available to pay dividends to our shareholders. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2009, our Wuliting and Yingchuan hydroelectric power projects were not in compliance with certain covenants relating to use of loan proceeds contained in the loan agreements to which they are parties. As a result, we consider the aggregate balance in the amount of $32.6 million of these loans to be callable and reclassified the balance from long term loans to current portion of long term loans as of December 31, 2009 and recorded an interest expense in the amount of $0.2 million related to penalty charges for the noncompliance for the year ended December 31, 2009. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the portion of the loan of Wuling that was not in compliance with certain debt covenants provisions as of December 31, 2009 was repaid in full and the remaining non-current portion of the loan was reclassified as long-term loan accordingly. The loan balances of Yinchuan that were not in compliance with certain debt covenants as of December 31, 2009 were not settled during the year ended December 31, 2010 and remained classified as current portion of long-term loans as of December 31, 2010. Planning, construction, acquisition and operation of our hydroelectric power projects require us to obtain and maintain a significant number of permits and approvals from PRC government agencies, some of which we have not obtained or were not transferred to us upon project acquisition. Failure to obtain these permits and approvals could result in significant fines and our 18 loss of the right to develop or operate those assets, which would materially and adversely affect our future growth plans and results of operations. The planning, construction, acquisition and operation of small hydroelectric power projects in China requires permits and approvals to be obtained and maintained under different regulatory schemes administered by a wide range of PRC government agencies. Many of the completed projects we have acquired have not historically obtained or have failed to maintain all of those permits required for their operation, and in some cases permits that were obtained have not been transferred to us following our acquisition of the plant. Furthermore, the development rights we have obtained or may obtain are, in most cases, for projects that have not yet received planning and other permits. We believe we have applied for the grant, transfer or renewal, as applicable, of all permits and approvals required to develop and operate our hydroelectric power projects. However, our applications with respect to one or more projects may be rejected and we may be fined for failure to timely obtain permits and approvals for any of those projects. Failure to obtain missing permits and approvals may in certain cases result in significant fines or the government authorities requiring us to cease operation of our hydroelectric power projects, or unwind the acquisition of the project, any of which would materially and adversely affect our future growth plans and results of operations. Failure to obtain permits and approvals for our development projects may result in our inability to complete and operate the project, or our being subject to penalties and fines upon completion of the project, either of which could materially and adversely affect our future growth and results of operations. Our operations in China are extensively regulated by the PRC government and our costs associated with compliance with such regulations are substantial. Our results of operations and future growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected by future changes in government regulations and policies. All of our hydroelectric power projects in China are subject to extensive regulation by the PRC governmental authorities, including central governmental authorities such as the Ministry of Commerce, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the National Development and Reform Commission, the State Electricity Regulatory Commission, the State Administration of Taxation, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Communications and Transportation, the Ministry of Water Resources, the Ministry of Land and Resources and the Ministry of Housing and Urban- Rural Development, as well as their provincial and local counterparts. Government regulations address virtually all aspects of our operations, including, among others, the following: • planning and construction of new power projects; • the granting of power generation, dispatch and supply permits; • the amount and timing of power generation; • the setting of on-grid tariffs paid to power producers and power tariffs paid by consumers of electricity; • power grid control and power dispatch, including the setting of preferential policies for the dispatch of renewable energy generated power; • allocation of water resources and control of water flows; • environmental protection and safety standards; • acquisitions by foreign investors; and • taxes, in particular Enterprise Income Tax and Value Added Tax. Our costs of compliance with, and reliance on, this regulatory system is significant to our business. An increase in the cost of compliance could increase our operating costs and expenses and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Moreover, policy movements against renewable energy power producers could limit our opportunities for growth and materially and adversely affect our revenues. 19 The transfer of state-owned assets in China is subject to approval by authorities in charge of state-owned assets administration and supervision. Any failure by us or prior owners of our projects to comply with PRC laws and regulations in respect of the transfer of state-owned assets may result in the imposition of fines or forfeiture of our projects. We have acquired a total of twenty-six operating hydroelectric power projects and will continue to carry out our acquisition strategy in China. Some of our projects were previously state-owned assets. Under PRC law, the transfer of state-owned assets is subject to strict procedures and approvals. We believe we have complied with all requisite procedures in acquiring state-owned assets, namely our Shapulong hydroelectric power project. However, if a previous transferor of state-owned assets failed to comply with relevant PRC law, the transfer of the state-owned assets may be reversed by the government or fines may be levied. In such circumstances, we will have a legal right to recover our investment in the assets, but we may not be able to recover from the relevant parties, which could result in a loss of power generation plants, loss of revenues and a significant increase in operating costs. Acquisition of state-owned assets involves a public bidding process and failure to win the bids for our state-owned target companies or equity interests therein may limit our future growth and the control of our existing projects. Under PRC law, we are required to bid for the acquisition of state-owned assets that we wish to acquire. We typically negotiate the terms of the sale with the state-owned seller prior to the bidding process, however, we may not be successful in the bid and may fail to obtain the project as a result. To the extent we seek in the future to acquire state-owned assets, we will need to follow this process, and may not be successful in obtaining the target business. To the extent we are unsuccessful in our bids for these state-owned interests, our future growth and the ability to control our existing projects may be materially and adversely affected. Certain of our acquisitions have not obtained approval from the local counterparts of the National Development and Reform Commission, which could result in our being required to subsequently obtain the approval, losing preferential tax treatments and other preferential government support, or being ordered to cease operation of the subject hydroelectric power project. In accordance with relevant PRC laws and regulations, acquisitions involving foreign investment require approval from the National Development and Reform Commission, or its local counterparts. Certain of our acquisitions of hydroelectric power projects have not procured approvals from the local counterparts of the National Development and Reform Commission, despite having obtained approvals from relevant local counterparts of the Ministry of Commerce. We have in some instances approached the local counterparts of the National Development and Reform Commission to apply for these approvals, but have been told by the government agency that it is not necessary for our projects to obtain these approvals. Failure to obtain any of the approvals may have a material adverse effect on our business operations, including our being required to subsequently obtain the approval, losing preferential tax treatments and other preferential government support, or being ordered to cease operation of the subject hydroelectric power project. We have not obtained formal title certificates to some of the properties we occupy, which may subject us to lawsuits or other actions being taken against us and may result in our loss of the right to operate on these properties and increased operating expenses. We have not obtained formal title certificates in respect of the land that we use at the Wuliting, Zhougongyuan, Binglangjiang II, Jinlong, Jintang, Jinwei, Jinjiu, and Dongguan hydroelectric power projects with a total area of approximately 2,571,106 m2. We are in the process of completing the legal procedures for obtaining the relevant title certificates for the parcels of land and buildings involved and registering them in the name of our operating companies. However, we may not be able to obtain all of the formal title certificates. While we are indemnified by certain predecessors of our operating companies for any losses or expenses that we may suffer from these title defects, our rights as owner or occupier of these properties and buildings may be adversely affected as a result 20 of the absence of formal title certificates and we may be subject to lawsuits or other actions taken against us and may lose the right to continue to operate on these properties. In addition, certain of the land use rights currently held by us were obtained by way of allocation by the PRC government without charge. These parcels of land at the Shapulong, Banzhu, Wangkeng, Liyuan, Ruiyang, Yuheng, Yingchuan, Xiaopengzu, Mangxian, Husahe Cascade III, Husahe Cascade IV, and Qianling sites are used as workshops, dams and reservoirs, and have a total area of approximately 10,344,218.98 m2. The PRC central or local governments may in the future require us to re-obtain such land use rights by way of grant by the government or require us to pay site use fees. In the event that we are required to obtain the land use rights by way of grant, we will be obligated to enter into state-owned land use rights grant contracts with the competent land administration authorities and pay relevant taxes and fees, including but not limited to land premiums in accordance with relevant PRC laws and regulations. These taxes and fees for obtaining land use rights may be significant and if we are required to pay these amounts our operating expenses could be significantly increased. Furthermore, part of the land occupied by Jinwei hydroelectric project is leased allocated land. In accordance with relevant PRC laws and regulations, the lease of allocated land shall obtain approval from the competent land and resources authority. We have not procured such approval so far. Jinwei hydroelectric project is also leasing certain land from the local peasants which is collectively-owned. In accordance with relevant PRC laws and regulations, collectively-owned land shall not be leased for industrial use purpose such as hydropower generation. The total area for the aforesaid leased allocated land and collectively-owned land is approximately 435,288.4 m2. In the event that we are required to cease such lease and/or any penalties are imposed on us, our business operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Certain of our existing hydroelectric power projects have not passed the completion acceptance procedure, which could result in the imposition of fines or the closure of non-permitted hydroelectric power projects. In accordance with relevant PRC laws and regulations, hydroelectric power projects are required to pass a completion acceptance procedure. Currently, only thirteen of our twenty-six projects have passed the completion acceptance procedure and two projects, namely, Husahe Cascade IV and Mangxian projects cannot verify whether they have passed completion acceptance due to the loss of files caused by flood in 2004. The remaining eleven of our existing hydroelectric power projects have not passed the completion acceptance procedure and they may not successfully pass the completion acceptance procedure in the future. We expect three will complete the procedure by the end of 2011. As for the remaining eight projects in Fujian Province, we have been informed by relevant governmental authorities that Fujian Province has temporarily suspended the completion acceptance procedure for small hydroelectric projects and the time for resumption is uncertain. Failure by any of our existing projects to pass completion acceptance procedure could result in the government imposing fines or ordering us to shut down such hydroelectric power projects. Our executive officers may allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our business and operations, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to manage our operations. John D. Kuhns, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. You-Su Lin, the Chairman of Beijing A.B.C. Investment, “James” Tie Li, our Chief Financial Officer and President, Mary E. Fellows, our Executive Vice President and Corporate Secretary, are, to varying degrees, currently pursuing other business interests. This may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. If our officers’ other business affairs require them to devote substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our business and operations, which could materially adversely affect our ability to manage our operations. 21 Our directors and officers may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented, which could limit the business growth opportunities for our company. Following a period of one year from the date of our initial public offering, our directors and officers may become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those conducted by us. Additionally, our directors and officers may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as to the other entities with which they are or may be affiliated. Due to these existing affiliations, they may have fiduciary obligations or contractual obligations to present potential business opportunities to those entities prior to presenting them to us. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. The loss of these business opportunities could limit the growth of our company. If a poll is not demanded at our shareholder meetings, voting will be by a show of hands and shares will not be proportionately represented. Shareholder resolutions may be passed without the presence of the majority of our shareholders in person or by proxy. Voting at any of our shareholder meetings is by a show of hands unless a poll is demanded. A poll may be demanded by the chairman of the meeting or by any three shareholders present in person or by proxy or by any shareholder(s) holding 1/10 of the total voting rights of shareholders present at the meeting. If a poll is demanded, each shareholder present in person or by proxy will have one vote for each ordinary share registered in his name. If a poll is not demanded, voting will be by show of hands and each shareholder present in person or by proxy will have one vote regardless of the number of shares registered in his name. In the absence of a poll, shares will therefore not be proportionately represented. In addition, the quorum required for our shareholder meetings consists of shareholders who hold at least one-third of our ordinary shares being present at a meeting in person or by proxy. Therefore, subject to the requisite majorities, shareholder resolutions may be passed at our shareholder meetings without the presence of the majority of our shareholders in person or by proxy. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under U.S. securities laws. Under the current SEC regulations, we will be required to include a management report on internal controls over financial reporting in our Form 20-F annual report for the year ended December 31, 2010, and we will be required to include an auditor’s report on internal controls over financial reporting for the year ending December 31, 2011. In connection with the audit of our consolidated and other financial statements included in the annual report for fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, we and our registered public accounting firm identified certain control deficiencies, which amounted to “material weakness” as defined under the standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. We have implemented measures to remediate these material weaknesses and improve our internal control. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010 and has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2010. See “Item 15. Controls and Procedures”. Nevertheless, we cannot assure you that our internal control measures will continue to be effective and that any significant deficiencies and material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Moreover, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. Even if we do conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our internal control. We have not obtained an independent audit opinion of our internal controls, and, as a result, we are not aware of any deficiencies which would result from such an audit. 22 Furthermore, effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important to help us to manage the company effectively and prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Compliance with rules and requirements applicable to public companies is costly and complex and any failure by us to comply with these requirements on an ongoing basis could negatively affect investor confidence in us and cause the market price of our securities to decline. As a new public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules adopted by the SEC and the NYSE, have required changes in the corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs and to make certain corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. Complying with these rules and requirements may be especially difficult and costly for us because we may have difficulty locating sufficient personnel in China with experience and expertise relating to U.S. GAAP and U.S. public-company reporting requirements and such personnel may command high salaries. If we cannot attract or retain sufficient personnel to ensure compliance with these rules and regulations, we may need to rely more on outside legal, accounting and financial experts, which may be very costly. Any failure by us to comply with these requirements on an ongoing basis could expose us to increased risk of fraud and subject us to potential delisting from the NYSE, regulatory investigations and civil or criminal sanctions. In addition, we will incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Risks Relating to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in PRC economic and political policies could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for electricity and materially and adversely affect our business. Our operating businesses are based in China and all of our power sales are made in China. As such, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. China economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many aspects, including: • the level of government involvement; • the level of development; • the growth rate; • the level and control of capital investment; • the control of foreign exchange; and • the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past two decades, the growth has been uneven geographically, among various sectors of the economy and during different periods. We cannot assure you that the Chinese economy will continue to grow or to do so at the pace that has prevailed in recent years, or that if there is growth, such growth will be steady and uniform. In addition, if there is a slowdown, such slowdown could have a negative effect on our business. It is uncertain whether various macroeconomic measures and monetary policies adopted by the PRC government will be effective in sustaining the fast growth rate of the Chinese economy. In addition, such measures, even if they benefit the overall Chinese economy in the long term, may have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by government control over capital investments, and our ability to access bank financing may be adversely affected by continued tightening of the PRC’s monetary policy. 23 Although the Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by China government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for electricity and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Interpretation of PRC laws and regulations involves uncertainty. We are incorporated in Cayman Islands and are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned companies. All of our operating businesses are located within China and are governed by PRC laws and regulations. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions can only be used as a reference. Since 1979, the PRC government has promulgated laws and regulations in relation to economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, due to the fact that these laws and regulations have not been fully developed, and because of the limited volume of published cases and the non-binding nature of prior court decisions, interpretations of PRC laws and regulations are not always uniform and involves a relatively high degree of uncertainty. Laws may be changed without being immediately published or may be amended with retroactive effect. Depending on the government agency or how an application or case is presented to such agency, we may receive less favorable interpretations of laws and regulations than certain of our competitors. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. The Antimonopoly Law may subject our future acquisitions to increased scrutiny, which could affect our ability to consummate acquisitions on terms favorable to us or at all. The Antimonopoly Law of China became effective on August 1, 2008. The law was enacted in part to guard against and cease monopolistic activities, and to safeguard and promote orderly market competition. In accordance with the law, monopolistic acts shall include monopolistic agreements among business operators, abuse of dominant market positions by business operators and concentration of business operators that eliminates or restricts competition or might be eliminating or restricting competition. On August 3, 2008, the State Council promulgated the Regulations on the Thresholds for Reporting of Concentration of Business Operators, or the Reporting Threshold Regulations, which provide specific thresholds for reporting of concentration of business operators. Under the Antimonopoly Law and the Reporting Threshold Regulations, the parties to an acquisition must report to the Ministry of Commerce in advance if in the preceding accounting year the turnover in the aggregate achieved by all the parties to the transaction exceeds RMB10.0 billion ($1.5 billion) worldwide or RMB2.0 billion ($0.3 billion) within China, and the turnover achieved by at least two of them respectively exceeds RMB400.0 million ($58.6 million) within China. However, the Ministry of Commerce has the right to initiate investigation of a transaction not reaching the above-mentioned reporting thresholds if the Ministry of Commerce has evidence that the transaction has or may have the effect of excluding or restricting competition. The antitrust scrutiny procedures and requirements set forth in the Antimonopoly Law and the Reporting Threshold Regulations grant the government extensive authority of evaluation and control over the terms of acquisitions in China by foreign investors, and their implementation involves significant uncertainties and risks. To the extent our future acquisitions meet the threshold requirements set forth in the law and the Reporting Threshold Regulations, or are deemed by the Ministry of Commerce to meet the thresholds, we will 24 be subject to antimonopoly review. The consummation of our future acquisitions could therefore be much more time-consuming and complex, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or prevent the consummation of such acquisitions, and prevent us from attaining our business objectives. On February 3, 2011, General Office of the PRC State Council issued the Circular of the General Office of the State Council on the Establishment of Security Review System Regarding Mergers and Acquisitions in China by Foreign Investors with effect in March, according to which, the acquisitions by foreign investors of domestic Chinese companies active in the certain sectors shall be subject to security review, including military enterprises, key agricultural products, key energy and resources, key infrastructure, key transportation services, key technologies and key equipment manufacturing activities that raise national security concerns, where the foreign investor might acquire actual control of the target Chinese company through the acquisition. This newly-issued regulation is unclear in certain aspects including the definition of key sectors which are expected to be further specified and therefore how it will be interpreted and implemented in practice remains to be seen. In case our future acquisitions fall within the security review scope, the consummation of such acquisitions could therefore be much more time-consuming and complex, and any required approval processes may delay or prevent the consummation of such acquisitions, and prevent us from attaining our business objectives. The PRC tax law could increase the enterprise income tax rate applicable to our operating businesses in China, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. On March 16, 2007, the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax law, or EIT Law, was enacted, which became effective on January 1, 2008 and replaced the previous two separate tax legal regimes for foreign invested enterprises, or FIEs, and Chinese domestic companies. The EIT Law adopts a uniform tax rate of 25% for all enterprises, including FIEs, and revokes many of the previous tax exemption, reduction and preferential treatments which were applicable to FIEs. However, any enterprises that were established before the promulgation of the EIT Law that are entitled to preferential tax treatments for a fixed period will continue to be entitled to such preferential tax treatments until the expiration of such period. If the fixed period has not commenced because of losses, it shall be deemed to commence on January 1, 2008. In addition, certain qualified high-technology enterprises may still benefit from a preferential tax rate of 15% under the EIT Law if they meet the criteria of “high and new technology enterprises strongly supported by the State.” As a result, the applicable tax rate to certain of our existing PRC operating businesses have increased from 15% to the unified tax rate of 25% under the EIT Law. Moreover, the EIT Law provides that a withholding income tax rate of 20% will be applicable to dividends payable to foreign investors that are “non-resident enterprises” to the extent such dividends have their source within China unless the jurisdiction of such foreign investor has a tax treaty with China that provides a different withholding arrangement. The implementing regulations to the EIT Law subsequently reduced this withholding income tax rate from 20% to 10%. We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the EIT Law and be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income. The EIT Law also provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to their worldwide income. Under the implementation regulations to the EIT Law issued by the State Council, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. At present, the PRC tax authorities have not issued any guidance on the application of the new EIT Law and its Implementation Regulations on non-Chinese enterprises or non-Chinese group enterprises and their controlled entities. As a result, it is unclear what factors will be used by the PRC tax authorities to determine whether we are a “de facto management body” in China. A substantial number of our 25 management personnel are located in the PRC, and all of our revenues arise from our operations in China. However, we do recognize some interest income and other gains from our financing activities outside China. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a PRC resident enterprise, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, the new EIT Law also provides that, if a resident enterprise already invests in another resident enterprise, the dividends received by the investing resident enterprise from the invested resident enterprise are exempt from income tax, subject to certain qualifications. Therefore, if we are classified as a resident enterprise, the dividends received from our PRC subsidiaries may be exempt from income tax. However, due to the short history of the EIT Law, it is unclear as to (i) the detailed qualification requirements for such exemption and (ii) whether dividend payments by our PRC subsidiaries to us will meet such qualification requirements, even if we are considered a PRC resident enterprise for tax purposes. Interest and dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gain on the sale of our ADSs, warrants or ordinary shares may become subject to withholding taxes under PRC tax laws, which may materially and adversely affect your investment in our securities. Under the EIT Law and implementation regulations issued by the State Council, PRC withholding tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to interest and dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” which do not have an establishment or place of business in China, or which have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such interest or dividends have their sources within China. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs, warrants or ordinary shares by such investors is also subject to 10% PRC withholding tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within China. If we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” it is unclear whether the interest or dividends we pay with respect to our securities, or the gain our non-PRC shareholders or ADS or warrant holders may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or other securities, would be treated as income derived from sources within China and be subject to PRC tax. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on interest or dividends payable to our non-PRC shareholders that are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our securities, the value of your investment in our securities may be materially adversely affected. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions, if any, on equity paid by our operating businesses in China, and limitations on their ability to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are a holding company and we rely principally on dividends and other distributions, if any, on equity paid by our operating businesses in China for our cash and financing requirements, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, service any debt we may incur and pay our operating expenses. If our operating businesses incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. We currently expect to permanently reinvest the earnings of our operating businesses in China and have no plan to cause our operating businesses to make a dividend distribution to us. As entities established in China, our operating businesses are subject to certain limitations with respect to dividend payments. PRC regulations currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. For each of our operating businesses that is a Sino-foreign joint venture enterprise, it may not distribute its after-tax profits to us if it has not already made contributions to its reserve fund, enterprise development fund and employee bonus and welfare fund at percentages that are decided by its board of directors. For each of our operating businesses that is a wholly foreign-owned enterprise, it may not distribute its after-tax profits to us if it has not already made contributions to 26 its employee bonus and welfare fund at a percentage that is decided by its board of directors and to its reserve fund at a rate of no less than 10% of its net profit. A wholly foreign-owned enterprise is required to continue making contributions to its reserve fund until such fund reaches 50% of its registered capital. For each of our operating businesses that is a PRC domestic company, it may not distribute its after-tax profits to us if it has not already made contributions to its statutory reserve fund at a rate of no less than 10% of its net profit. A PRC domestic company is required to continue making contributions to its statutory reserve fund until such fund reaches 50% of its registered capital. These reserve funds may not be distributed as cash dividends. The total amount of our restricted net assets was RMB3,263.2 million ($466.8 million) as of December 31, 2010. In addition, if our operating businesses in China incur further debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Limitations on the ability of our operating businesses in China to pay dividends to us could adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Accordingly, if for any of the above or other reasons, we do not receive dividends from our operating businesses in China, our liquidity, financial condition and ability to make dividend distributions to our shareholders will be materially and adversely affected. Fluctuations in the value of RMB will affect the amount of our non-RMB debt service in RMB terms and affect the value of, and dividends payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency terms. The value of RMB depends, to a large extent, on China’s domestic and international economic, financial and political developments and government policies, as well as the currency’s supply and demand in the local and international markets. Fluctuation of the value of RMB will affect the amount of our non-RMB debt service in RMB terms since we have to convert RMB into non-RMB currencies to service our foreign debt. Since our income and profits are denominated in RMB, any appreciation of RMB will also increase the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency terms. Conversely, any depreciation of RMB will decrease the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency terms. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive dividends from our operating businesses in China and their ability to obtain overseas financing. Our operating businesses in China may convert a portion of RMB held by them into foreign currencies to meet its foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payments of dividends declared, if any, in respect of our ordinary shares. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, our operating businesses in China are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that China government will not take measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions, including payment of dividends. Foreign exchange transactions for capital account items, such as direct equity investments, loans and repatriation of investments, by our operating businesses in China continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of PRC governmental authorities, including the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. In particular, if our operating businesses in China borrow foreign currency-denominated loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with the local offices of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. These limitations could affect their ability to obtain additional equity or debt funding that is denominated in foreign currencies. PRC regulation of direct investment and loans by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or limit our ability to use the proceeds of our initial public offering to make additional capital contributions or loans to our PRC operating businesses. Any capital contributions or loans that we, as an offshore company, make to our PRC operating businesses, including from the proceeds of our initial public offering, are subject to PRC regulations. 27 For example, any of our loans to our PRC operating businesses cannot exceed the difference between the total amount of investment our PRC operating businesses are approved to make under relevant PRC laws and their respective registered capital, and must be registered with the local branch of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange as a procedural matter. In addition, our capital contributions to our PRC operating businesses must be approved by the National Development and Reform Commission and the Ministry of Commerce or their local counterpart and registered with the State Administration for Industry and Commerce or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these approvals on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to obtain such approvals, our ability to make equity contributions or provide loans to our PRC operating businesses or to fund their operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect their liquidity and their ability to fund their working capital and expansion projects and meet their obligations and commitments. Furthermore, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange promulgated a new circular in August 2008 with respect to the administration of conversion of foreign exchange capital contribution of foreign invested enterprises into RMB. Pursuant to this new circular, RMB converted from foreign exchange capital contribution can only be used for the activities within the approved business scope of such foreign invested enterprise and cannot be used for domestic equity investment or acquisition unless otherwise allowed by PRC laws or regulations. As a result, we may not be able to increase the capital contribution of our operating subsidiaries and subsequently convert such capital contribution into RMB for equity investment or acquisition in China. Risks Relating to Our Securities The trading prices of our ADSs and warrants are likely to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The trading prices of our ADSs and warrants are likely to be volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to factors beyond our control. The initial public offering price for our units was determined by negotiation between us and the underwriters and the price at which the ADSs and warrants are traded after our initial offering have declined below the initial public offering price. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation against that company. If we were involved in a class action suit, it could divert the attention of senior management, and, if adversely determined, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The performance and fluctuation of the market prices of other companies with business operations located mainly in China that have listed their securities in the United States may affect the volatility in the price of and trading volumes for our ADSs and warrants. Recently, a number of PRC-based companies have listed their securities, or are in the process of preparing for listing their securities, on U.S. stock markets. The trading performances of these PRC-based companies’ securities at the time of or after their offerings may affect the overall investor sentiment towards PRC-based companies listed in the United States and consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs and warrants. These broad market and industry factors may significantly affect the market price and volatility of our ADSs and warrants, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume of our ADSs and warrants may be highly volatile for specific business reasons. Factors such as variations in our financial results, announcements of new business initiatives by us or by our competitors, recruitment or departure of key personnel, changes in the estimates of our financial results or changes in the recommendations of any securities analysts electing to follow our securities or the securities of our competitors could cause the market price for our ADSs and warrants to change substantially. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the trading volume and price for our ADSs and warrants. 28 The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our ADSs could adversely affect their market price. Sales of substantial amounts of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs and could materially impair our future ability to raise capital through offerings of our ADSs. Currently there are 153,295,516 ordinary shares outstanding. In addition, there are outstanding options and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 58,584,565 ordinary shares, including options and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 52,025,565 ordinary shares immediately exercisable as of the date of this annual report. All of the ADSs sold in the initial public offering are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Act, unless held by our “affiliates” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Subject to applicable restrictions and limitations under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, all of our shares outstanding prior to our initial public offering are eligible for sale in the public market. In addition, the ordinary shares subject to options and warrants for the purchase of our ordinary shares will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting agreements and Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act of 1933. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold in the public market, the trading price of our ADSs could decline. Future issuances of ordinary shares or ADSs may depress the trading price of our ADSs. Any future issuance of equity securities could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders and could substantially decrease the trading price of our ADSs. We may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy (including in connection with acquisitions and other transactions), to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options or for other reasons. Our outstanding warrants may materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. The units sold in our initial public offering include warrants to purchase 18,000,000 ordinary shares. The potential issuance of additional ordinary shares on exercise of these warrants could materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. This is because exercise of the warrants will increase the number of issued and outstanding ordinary shares and thus may dilute the net tangible book value per ADS. Additionally, the sale or possibility of sale of the ordinary shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain other financing. You will not be able to exercise your warrants if we do not have an effective registration statement in place when you desire to do so. No warrants will be exercisable, and we will not be obligated to issue ordinary shares upon exercise of warrants by a holder unless, at the time of such exercise, we have a registration statement under the Securities Act in effect covering the ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to ordinary shares is available. We have agreed to use our best efforts to have a registration statement in effect covering ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants from the date the warrants become exercisable and to maintain a current prospectus relating to ordinary shares until the warrants expire or are redeemed. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. Additionally, we have no obligation to settle the warrants for cash in the absence of an effective registration statement or under any other circumstances. The warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the warrants may be limited, the holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants if there is no registration statement in effect covering the ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants, or the prospectus relating to the ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current and the warrants may expire worthless. 29 Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. If we offer holders of our shares any rights to subscribe for additional shares or any other rights, the depositary may make these rights available to you if it is lawful and reasonably practicable. However, the depositary may allow rights that are not distributed or sold to lapse. In that case, you will receive no value for them. In addition, U.S. securities laws may restrict the sale, deposit, cancellation and transfer of the ADSs issued after exercise of rights. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to holders of ADSs, or are registered under the provisions of the Securities Act. We can give no assurance that we can establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to these rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have a registration statement declared effective. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. A significant percentage of our outstanding ordinary shares are held by a small number of our existing shareholders, and these shareholders may have significantly greater influence on us and our corporate actions by nature of the size of their shareholdings relative to our public shareholders. Vicis Capital Master Fund owns 31.9% and CPI Ballpark Investments Ltd. and Blue Ridge Investments, LLC, both of which are subsidiaries of Bank of America Corporation, own an aggregate of 25.2% of our voting shares as of February 14, 2011. Through publicly available information, we are aware of a potential share transfer between CPI Ballpark Investments Ltd. and Blue Ridge Investments, LLC. Each of these shareholders is an affiliate within the meaning of the Securities Act, due to the size of their respective shareholdings in us. Vicis Master Fund currently has one board representative on our seven director board. Accordingly, these shareholders have had, and may continue to have, significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may discourage a third party from acquiring us, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunities to sell their shares at a premium. Our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in a change-of-control transaction. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors will have the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue new preferred shares in one or more tranches, which may have powers and rights, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares. These new preferred shares could thus be issued quickly, and could have terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult. In addition, if our board of directors issues new preferred shares, the market price of our ADSs or warrants may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected. In addition, our board of directors is divided into three classes and only one class of directors is up for re-election at each annual meeting of shareholders. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law and it is difficult to 30 enforce certain judgments, you may have less protection of your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. The Cayman Islands courts are unlikely: • to recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us or our directors or officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States; or • to entertain original actions brought against us or our directors or officers predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the Cayman Islands will generally recognize as a valid judgment, a final and conclusive judgment in personam obtained in the federal or state courts in the United States under which a sum of money is payable, other than a sum of money payable in respect of multiple damages, taxes or other charges of a like nature or in respect of a fine or other penalty, and would give a judgment based thereon provided that (i) such courts had proper jurisdiction over the parties subject to such judgment; (ii) such courts did not contravene the rules of natural justice of the Cayman Islands; (iii) such judgment was not obtained by fraud; (iv) the enforcement of the judgment would not be contrary to the public policy of the Cayman Islands; (v) no new admissible evidence relevant to the action is submitted prior to the rendering of the judgment by the courts of the Cayman Islands; and (vi) there is due compliance with the correct procedures under the laws of the Cayman Islands. You will have limited ability to bring an action in the Cayman Islands or in China against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, because we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands and because we conduct a majority of our operations in China. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and conduct substantially all of our operations in China. Most of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and substantially all of the assets of those persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the applicable securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. Unlike many jurisdictions in the United States, Cayman Islands law does not specifically provide for shareholder appraisal rights on a merger or consolidation of a company where the shares of the company are listed on a recognized stock exchange or inter-dealer quotation system. This may make it more difficult for you to assess the value of any consideration you may receive in a merger or consolidation or to require that the offer or give you additional consideration if you believe the consideration offered is insufficient. 31 Shareholders of Cayman Islands exempted companies such as ourselves have no general rights under Cayman Islands law to inspect corporate records and accounts or to obtain copies of lists of shareholders of these companies. Our directors have discretion under our Amended and Restated Articles of Association to determine whether or not, and under what conditions, our corporate records may be inspected by our shareholders, but are not obliged to make them available to our shareholders. This may make it more difficult for you to obtain the information needed to establish any facts necessary for a shareholder motion or to solicit proxies from other shareholders in connection with a proxy contest. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. Your ability to protect your rights as shareholders through the U.S. federal courts may be limited because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a derivative action in a federal court of the United States. As a result, your ability to protect your interests if you are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable you to sue in a U.S. federal court may be limited. The voting rights of holders of ADSs must be exercised in accordance with the terms of the deposit agreement, the ADRs, and the procedures established by the depositary. The process of voting through the depositary may involve delays that limit the time available to you to consider proposed shareholders’ actions and also may restrict your ability to subsequently revise your voting instructions. Holders of our ADSs may only exercise their voting rights with respect to the underlying shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Upon receipt of voting instructions from a holder of ADSs in the manner set forth in the deposit agreement, the depositary will endeavor to vote the underlying shares in accordance with these instructions. Under our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association and Cayman Islands law, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is 21 days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter at the meeting. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you to give your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to send voting information to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your shares are not voted as you requested. Except in limited circumstances, the depositary for our ADSs will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if it does not receive your voting instructions, unless: • we have failed to timely provide the depositary with our notice of meeting and related voting materials; • we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; • we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; 32 • a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that we will be able to control the voting of the shares underlying your ADSs if you fail to instruct the depository in time, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may not receive distributions on our shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian for our ADSs receives on our shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed pursuant to an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary is not responsible for making a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if any government approval or registration is required for such distribution. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distributions we make on our shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material and adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs, represented by ADRs, are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books from time to time for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is necessary or advisable to do so in connection with the performance of its duty under the deposit agreement, including due to any requirement of law or any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement. We may be a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could lead to additional taxes for U.S. holders of our warrants, ADSs or ordinary shares. We do not expect to be, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, which is a foreign company for which, in any given taxable year, either at least 75% of its gross income is passive income which generally includes dividends, interest, royalties, rents and gains from commodities and securities transactions or at least 50% of its assets produce or are held to produce passive income, for our 2009 or 2010 taxable years and we expect to operate in such a manner so as not to become a PFIC for any future taxable year. However, because the determination of PFIC status for any taxable year cannot be made until after the close of such year and requires extensive factual investigation, including ascertaining the fair market value of our assets on a quarterly basis and determining whether the gross income that we earn is or is not passive income, we cannot assure you that we will not become a PFIC for our 2010 taxable year or any future taxable year. If we are or become a PFIC, you could be subject to additional U.S. federal income taxes on gain recognized with respect to the warrants, ADSs or ordinary shares and on 33 certain distributions, plus an interest charge on certain taxes treated as having been deferred under the PFIC rules. Non-corporate U.S. holders will not be eligible for reduced rates of taxation on any dividends received from us if we are a PFIC in the taxable year in which such dividends are paid or in the preceding taxable year. 