D. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business Our business is susceptible to fluctuations in the real estate market in China, and the property market in China is volatile and at an early stage of development, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We conduct our real estate services business primarily in China, and our business depends substantially on the conditions of the real estate market in China. The real estate market in China remains at an early stage of development, and social, political, economic, legal and other factors may affect its development. For example, the lack of a mature and active secondary market for private properties and the limited amount of mortgage loans available to individuals in China may result in fluctuations in residential real estate markets. Although demand for private residential property in China has grown rapidly in recent years, this growth has often been coupled with volatile market 7 Table of Contents conditions and fluctuations in property prices. For example, the rapid expansion of the property market in major provinces and cities, such as Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen, in the early 1990s, led to an oversupply in the mid-1990s and a corresponding fall in property values and rentals in the second half of the decade. We believe our business has been affected by fluctuations in the real estate market in China. For instance, our average monthly net revenues per operating sales office decreased by 24% during the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to the same period in 2009, mainly resulted from the decline of market transactions. Thus, we believe this decrease was mainly due to the general weakness of the real estate market in China during 2010, 2011 and 2012 resulting from the real estate tightening policies adopted by the central government, which were aimed at cooling down the overheating property market and to curb excessive lending in the real estate industry. In addition, the PRC government promulgated austerity measures regarding controlling the real estate market in February 2013. See "—Our business, revenue growth, profitability and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected by any government policies and regulatory measures influencing China's real estate industry" for details. Such government policies have negatively affected the real estate market and caused a reduction in transactions in the real estate market. While these measures and policies remain in effect, they may continue to depress the real estate market, dissuade potential home buyers from making purchases, reduce transaction volume and cause a decline in average selling prices. See "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—A. Operating Results—Results of Operations." In addition, the PRC property market may experience, and transaction volume may be impacted by, undersupply or oversupply and property price fluctuations caused by economic, social, political and other factors. Any future overdevelopment in the property sector or other adverse changes in the economic, political or social environment in China may result in an oversupply of properties and a decrease in property prices and overall transaction activities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as all of our company-owned sales offices are strategically located in large metropolitan areas in Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen and Chengdu, any decrease in demand or any other adverse developments in these regions may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse developments in general business and economic conditions could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business and operations are sensitive to general business and economic conditions globally and in China. These include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation or deflation, fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, consumer confidence and the general condition of the PRC and world economies. Certain recent adverse developments in the global financial markets could continue to impact the global economy. These developments include, among others, a general slowdown of economic growth in China, the U.S. and elsewhere globally, the current European sovereign debt crisis and concerns about the viability of the European Union and the Euro, and substantial volatility and tightening of liquidity in financial and real estate markets. Numerous general business and economic factors could contribute to a real estate market downturn and adversely affect our business, including: (1) any systemic weakness in the banking and financial sectors; (2) any substantial declines in the stock markets or continued stock market volatility; (3) any increase in levels of unemployment; (4) a lack of available credit and lack of confidence in the financial sector; and (5) any general economic downturn in China or the global economy. Adverse developments in these general business and economic conditions could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents We experienced net losses for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, and there is no assurance that we will be profitable in the future. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012 we had a net loss of RMB163.7 million, RMB340.4 million and RMB53.5 million (US$8.6 million), respectively. These net losses were primarily due to a series of restrictive government policies for the real estate industry in China implemented in 2010, 2011 and 2012, which negatively impacted our net revenues per sales office, and the expenses arising from the addition of a significant number of company-owned sales offices in 2010 and 2011. Consequently, our accumulated deficit was RMB301.9 million, RMB638.4 million and RMB691.9 million (US$111.1 million) as of December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. We expect to continue to reduce costs and streamline our operations as we implement initiatives to deal with the current regulatory environment relating to our business, particularly our company-owned brokerage services business. If our net revenues do not sufficiently increase to offset the expected increases in costs and operating expenses, we will not be profitable. You should not consider our revenue growth in recent periods as indicative of our future performance. Net revenues in future periods could decline or grow more slowly than we expect and we cannot assure you that we will be profitable in the coming year, or that we will be able to maintain profitability in the future. We do not own the CENTURY 21® brand and our right to use the CENTURY 21® brand is subject to risks and limitations. Realogy owns the CENTURY 21® brand and system. Through our wholly owned subsidiary IFM Company Limited, or IFM Co., we hold the exclusive right to franchise, manage and operate the CENTURY 21® franchise network in China. Our interests and business strategies could be different from those of Realogy. See "Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Our Relationship with Realogy." Any adverse development in our relationship with Realogy could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our rights to use the CENTURY 21® brand are set forth in our master sub-franchise agreement with Realogy. The master sub-franchise agreement has a term of 25 years starting from March 2000, extendable at our election for additional terms of 25 years upon payment of renewal fees. As contractual rights, our rights to use the CENTURY 21® brand remain subject to the risks and limitations customarily associated with contractual relationships, including, but not limited to, a party's right to terminate the agreement in the event the other party materially breaches the agreement, a party's right to terminate in certain specified circumstances, and the risk that the contract may be voided if either party were to enter bankruptcy or a similar restructuring process. An agreement could be rejected in connection with a bankruptcy of another party thereto if, in the business judgment of a trustee of a party, as debtor-in-possession, rejection of the contract would benefit a party's estate. A bankruptcy by our licensor or any owner of the CENTURY 21® trademarks or system know-how could impede our right to use the CENTURY 21® brand and system. Any such adverse development could result in, among other things, an inability to use the CENTURY 21® brand and system, incurrence of material expenses in connection with building our brand or acquiring another brand to support our company-owned brokerage services business and franchise services business, payment of fees or compensation relating to settlements with the regional sub-franchisors or franchisees that terminate their franchise relationships with us, or diminished market recognition, any or all of which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the value of the CENTURY 21® brand or image diminishes, it could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe the CENTURY 21® brand is associated with leadership in integrated and high quality real estate services among real estate market participants in China. The CENTURY 21® brand is important to our operations. Our continued success in maintaining and enhancing the CENTURY 9 Table of Contents 21® brand and our image depends on our ability to satisfy customer needs by further developing and maintaining the quality of our services across our operations, as well as our ability to respond to competitive pressures. If we were unable to satisfy customer needs or if our public image or reputation were otherwise diminished, our business transactions with our customers or the commission or franchise fees that we charge could decline, and we could face difficulties in attracting and retaining regional sub-franchisors, franchisees or sales professionals. If the value of the CENTURY 21® brand diminishes globally or in China, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Any failure to protect our brand, trademarks and other intellectual property rights could have a negative impact on our business. We believe the CENTURY 21® brand owned by Realogy and the trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights owned by us are important to our success. Any unauthorized use of these intellectual properties could harm our competitive advantages and business. Historically, China has not protected intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States and infringement of intellectual property rights continues to pose a serious risk of doing business in China. Monitoring and preventing unauthorized use is difficult. The measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Furthermore, the application and enforcement of laws governing intellectual property rights in China and abroad is uncertain and evolving, and could involve substantial risks. If we are unable to adequately protect the intellectual property rights that we own or use, we may lose these rights and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our continuing reliance on our information systems, which include our proprietary Sales Information System, or SIS, and our Human Resource and Commission Information System, or HCIS, each of which is copyright protected, depends in large part on retaining our proprietary rights to these information systems. We have also imposed contractual obligations on employees and consultants and taken other precautionary measures to maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information, and have restricted the use of that proprietary information other than for our company's benefit. If the copyrights for our information system are infringed, or our sales professionals, staff and consultants otherwise do not honor their contractual obligations and misappropriate our information systems, databases or other proprietary information, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Competition in the real estate brokerage services business in China is intense and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition in the real estate brokerage services business in China is intense, especially in the densely populated areas. We compete with Centaline (China) Property Consultants Limited, Homelink Real Estate Agency Co., Ltd., and 5i5j Real Estate Co. Ltd for secondary real estate brokerage services business, and to a lesser extent, with E-house (China) Holdings Limited, World Union Properties Consulting Co., Limited and Syswin Inc. for primary real estate brokerage services business. We also compete with regional competitors in each of the regions where we own and operate sales offices. Some of these companies may have greater financial resources than we do, including greater marketing budgets and technological advantages. In addition, the secondary real estate brokerage services industry has low capital commitment requirements for small operations, lowering the barriers to entry for new participants, especially participants pursuing alternative methods of marketing real estate, such as internet-based listing services. Real estate brokers compete for sales and marketing business primarily on the basis of the services offered, reputation, brand recognition, personal contacts, local expertise and brokerage commission rates. Any decrease in the market average brokerage commission rate may adversely affect our net revenues and profits. We also compete for the services of qualified sales 10 Table of Contents professionals. Such competition could reduce commissions retained by our company after giving effect to the split with sales professionals and could increase the amounts that we spend on recruiting and retaining sales professionals. We face competition in the primary and commercial services business. In the primary real estate agency services market, our main competitors include World Union Real Estate Consultancy (China) Ltd., Hopefluent Group Holdings Limited, Centaline Group, SYSWIN Inc., Shanghai T&D Real Estate Co. Ltd., B.A. Consulting Company, and E-house (China) Holdings Limited, all of which operate in multiple cities in China. Some of these competitors may have greater resources than we do, including better client relationships in certain local areas and financial and informational resources. The limited capital resources required to enter the primary real estate sales agency and consultancy services industry in any given region also means there are low entry barriers for our competitors to enter into our major markets. New and existing competitors may offer lower commission rates with a wider range of services which could attract our existing developer clients away from us. Increased competition among primary real estate sales agency and consultancy companies could result in decreases in commission rates within the industry, increased operating costs relating to the provision of a wider range of services in order to compete effectively and higher administrative costs to attract or retain talented employees. We may not be able to continue to compete effectively and to maintain our current commission or margin levels. If we fail to compete effectively, our revenues, profitability and growth prospects will be negatively affected. In order to expand our presence in the primary and commercial market segments, in June 2011, we acquired 55% of the equity interest of Shanggu, an established local primary real estate agency service provider based in Beijing focusing on consulting and sales for commercial real estate projects, with a plan to acquire another 35% of its equity interest between 2014 and 2019. For detailed discussion of risks relating to our business expansions in the primary and commercial services business, see "—We may not be successful in our business expansions through future acquisitions." We face competition in the mortgage management services business. We face competition in the mortgage management services business from in-house mortgage management teams of our competitors in the brokerage services business, commercial banks and specialized mortgage management services providers. In the second half of 2009, certain commercial banks in Shanghai and Beijing agreed to collectively reduce mortgage referral commissions in connection with secondary real estate transactions. This adversely affected our revenues derived from referral commissions in both Shanghai and Beijing. Any increase in the level of competition or any negative development such as described above could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face competition in the franchise services business. For our franchise services business, our products consist of our brand name and the support services we provide to our regional sub-franchisors and franchisees. We compete with regional and local real estate brokerage brand franchisors. In addition, other international real estate services brand franchisors, such as Coldwell Banker, have entered or plan to enter into the China market. Upon the expiration of a franchise agreement, a franchisee may choose to obtain a franchise from one of our competitors or operate as an independent broker. Competitors may offer our regional sub-franchisors and franchisees whose franchise agreements are expiring similar or better products and services at rates lower than what we or our regional sub-franchisors charge. To remain competitive in the sale of franchises and to retain our existing regional sub-franchisors and franchisees, we may have to reduce the fees we charge our regional sub-franchisors or franchisees. 11 Table of Contents If our company-owned or franchised sales offices fail to obtain or maintain licenses or permits necessary to engage in the real estate brokerage business, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our company-owned sales offices and franchised sales offices are required to obtain and maintain certain licenses and permits to engage in the real estate brokerage business. We and our regional sub-franchisors also need licenses and permits to operate our CENTURY 21® franchise network in China. These licenses and permits are typically required to be renewed every one or two years. We are also subject to numerous national, provincial and local laws and regulations specific to the services we provide. If we or our regional sub-franchisors or franchisees fail to obtain or maintain the licenses and permits for conducting our company-owned brokerage or franchise services businesses required by law, the relevant governmental authorities may order us to suspend relevant operations or impose fines or other penalties. There is no assurance that we, our company-owned sales offices or our franchised sales offices will be able to obtain or renew these licenses in a timely manner, or at all. Regional sub-franchisors and franchisees could take actions that could harm our business. We do not own or control the majority of our regional sub-franchisors and franchisees. These regional sub-franchisors and franchisees may not operate their business in a manner consistent with our standards, or may not hire and train qualified sales professionals and other employees. If these regional sub-franchisors or franchisees were to provide a diminished quality of service to their customers, our brand, reputation and goodwill may suffer. Additionally, our regional sub-franchisors and franchisees may engage in or be accused of engaging in unlawful or tortious conduct. Such conduct, or the accusation of such conduct, could harm our brand image, reputation or goodwill. Any of these incidents could in turn materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our regional sub-franchisors and franchisees owned by independent business operators may from time to time disagree with our interpretation of our respective rights and obligations under the franchise agreements or fail to make timely service fees payments thereunder. This has led to disputes among the regional sub-franchisors, the franchisees and us in the past. We expect such disputes to occur from time to time in the future as we continue to offer franchise rights to third parties. To the extent we have such disputes, the attention of our management and our regional sub-franchisors or the franchisees will be diverted and our reputation may suffer as a result. Any of the aforementioned situations could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of any members of our senior management or other key sales professionals and staff could adversely affect our financial performance. Our success depends on the continued service of our key executive officers, particularly Mr. Donald Zhang and Mr. Harry Lu. We do not carry key man life insurance on any of our personnel. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team could hinder our ability to effectively manage our business and implement our growth strategies. If we lose the services of any of our key executive officers, we cannot assure you that we will be able to appoint or integrate adequate replacement personnel into our operations in a timely manner. Our failure to do so could in turn disrupt our operations and the growth of our business. Our success largely depends on the efforts and abilities of our senior management team and the management teams of regional sub-franchisors and sales offices owned and operated by us. Our ability to retain our management teams is generally subject to numerous factors, including the compensation packages we offer and our ability to maintain a cohesive company culture and other factors. Any prolonged downturn in the real estate market and any cost-cutting measures we implement could result in significant attrition among our current managers. If any member of our senior management team or 12 Table of Contents other key sales professionals and staff joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers, key sales professionals and staff, and we may not be able to promptly fill their positions with comparably qualified individuals without a significant increase in costs. Any of the foregoing adverse developments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks related to litigation filed by or against us, and adverse litigation results may harm our business and financial condition. We have been, and may in the future be, a party to litigation and other proceedings filed by or against us, including actions relating to intellectual property, franchise or sub-franchise arrangements with our regional franchisors or franchisees, or vicarious liability based upon the conduct of our individual sales professionals and staff or agents. For example, we have occasionally resorted to litigation against certain of our regional sub-franchisors with whom we have terminated our relevant sub-franchise relationship for the sub-franchisor's material breach of the regional sub-franchise agreement. In addition, we have litigated against third parties who have infringed the CENTURY 21® trademark. Although we have historically been successful in such litigation, we cannot predict the cost of such proceedings or their ultimate outcome, including any remedies or damages that may be awarded, and adverse results in such litigation and other proceedings may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to business and legal risks related to our entrusted and mortgage credit loan services or if our entrusted and mortgage credit loan services are found to have violated the relevant regulations in the future, we will incur significant losses, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition. In July 2010, we began to offer entrusted and mortgage credit loans services as part of our mortgage management services. Under our entrusted loan arrangements with commercial banks, we provide consumer financing to borrowers with funds being released by the commercial banks from our trust accounts at the banks. Commercial banks collect interest and principal payments from the borrowers on our behalf and receive service fees. The entrusted and mortgage credit loans, whose terms range from two to twelve months, are secured with the borrowers' mortgage properties. In general, we limit loan amounts to approximately 50% to 65% of the pledged properties' most recently assessed market value and usually charge services fees and interest rates which are above the prime mortgage lending rate. In addition, we will obtain enforceable pledges which, in case of default by the borrowers, allow us to dispose of the pledged properties in foreclosure sales. As of December 31, 2012, our total outstanding entrusted and mortgage credit loans balance was RMB35.2 million (US$5.7 million). As the lender, we bear the risks related to the entrusted loans and mortgage credit loans. Although we conduct background checks and internal reviews on potential borrowers, we cannot assure you that our borrowers will repay part or all of the interest and principal amounts of the loans. Furthermore, because we are not a financial institution and lack experience in providing loans, our internal review and approval procedures may not function as well as we expect. If the borrowers default on their repayment obligations and the market values of the pledged properties decline below the amounts of our entrusted loans and mortgage credit loans, or if our entrusted and mortgage credit loan services or our operation are found to have violated the relevant regulations or exceeded the permitted business scope in the future, we will incur significant losses, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition. 13 Table of Contents The PRC Government may determine that the contractual arrangements with the variable interest entities ("VIEs") relating to our mortgage credit business are not in compliance with applicable PRC laws and regulations. The mortgage credit business currently engaged by our company is regulated by, among others, the Measures for the Administration of Mortgage Credit (the "Mortgage Credit Measures"). According to Article 71 of the Mortgage Credit Measures, regulations governing the investment by foreign invested companies in mortgage credit business in the PRC shall be separately promulgated by the Ministry of Commerce (the "MOFCOM") and other relevant authorities. As of the date of this annual report, no relevant regulations have been promulgated by the MOFCOM. There are risks involved with our mortgage credit business operated under the contractual arrangements with the VIEs. In case the contractual arrangements with the VIEs are considered to be in breach of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations or governmental policy, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in taking actions to deal with such breach, including but not limited to: •imposing economic penalties; •discontinuing or restricting the operations of the VIEs; •imposing conditions or requirements in respect of the contractual arrangements with the VIEs with which we may not be able to comply; •requiring our company to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; •taking other regulatory or enforcement actions that could adversely affect our business; and •revoking the business licenses and/or the licenses or certificates of VIEs and/or voiding the contractual arrangements with the VIEs. Any of these actions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on our information systems to operate our business and maintain our competitiveness, and any disruption to it could harm our business. Our business depends upon the use of information systems, including systems providing real-time and in-depth management and sales information and support to our network of sales offices and marketing efforts. We rely significantly on our in-house information technology team with support from third-party outsourcing firms, to develop, maintain and regularly upgrade our information systems. In addition, some operations of these information systems depend upon third party technologies, systems and services. We cannot assure you that we will continue to have access to the products or services provided by our third party providers on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to effectively operate and maintain our information systems, or to effectively retain our key personnel for the maintenance and management of our information systems. In addition, we expect to refine and enhance our information systems on an ongoing basis, and we expect that advanced new technologies and systems will continue to be introduced. We may not be able to replace our existing information systems or introduce new information systems as quickly as our competitors or in a cost-effective manner. In addition, our information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from various causes, including (1) natural disasters, war and acts of terrorism, (2) power losses, computer system failures, internet and telecommunications or data network failures, operator error, losses and corruption of data, and similar events and (3) computer viruses, penetration by individuals seeking to disrupt operations or 14 Table of Contents misappropriate information and other physical or electronic breaches of security. While we maintain certain disaster recovery capabilities for critical functions in most of our businesses, these capabilities may not successfully prevent a disruption to, or have a material and adverse effect on, our businesses or operations in the event of a disaster or other business interruption. Any extended interruption in our information systems could significantly reduce our ability to conduct our business and generate revenues. Additionally, we do not carry business interruption insurance for any losses that may occur. If we cannot manage our growth, our operating results or profitability could be materially and adversely affected. We have experienced substantial growth since we began operations in 2000. Our net revenues amounted to RMB530.8 million in 2010, and then increased to RMB604.6 million in 2011 and RMB748.1 million (US$120.1 million) in 2012. We expanded our operating sales offices in 2010 and first half year of 2011, which resulted in an average of 451 and 517 operating sales offices for 2010 and 2011, respectively. We incurred significant losses in 2010 and 2011 mainly due to overall real estate market decline in China. As a result of our cost reduction strategy since the second half year of 2011, we reduced our operating sales offices to an average of 326 in 2012. Although we currently do not have a plan to significantly expand our company-owned brokerage services in 2013, our expansion, if any in the future years, could place significant demands on us to ensure that our brand does not suffer as a result of any decreases, whether actual or perceived, in the quality of our services. In order to manage and support our growth, we must continue to improve our existing operational, administrative and technological systems and our financial and management controls, and recruit, train and retain additional qualified sales professionals as well as other administrative and sales and marketing personnel, particularly as we expand into new markets. We may not be able to effectively and efficiently manage the growth of our operations, recruit and retain qualified personnel and integrate new expansion into our operations. During our expansion, we may also face other difficulties as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as any general unfavorable conditions in the real estate market, labor cost increases due to higher sales staff headcount or delays or denials of required approvals by relevant government authorities. As a result, our operating results or profitability could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be successful in our business expansions through future acquisitions. We have established our company-owned brokerage services business in Shanghai, Shenzhen and Chengdu through acquisitions. In territories where we do not have company-owned sales offices, one of our expansion strategies is to establish our own brokerage services business by acquiring existing chains of sales stores or regional sub-franchisors when their operations become mature and profitable. However, our experience in Shanghai, Shenzhen and Chengdu may not be replicable in other areas of China. In order to expand our presence in the primary and commercial market segments, in June 2011, we acquired 55% of the equity interest of Shanggu, an established local primary real estate agency service provider based in Beijing focusing on consulting and sales for commercial real estate projects, with a plan to acquire another 35% of its equity interest between 2014 and 2019. The success of our future acquisition strategies will depend upon our ability to negotiate with acquisition targets on favorable terms, and to finance and complete these transactions. We also need to effectively integrate newly acquired brokerage businesses into our existing operations, which may involve complex operational and personnel-related challenges, including rectifying possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, maintaining important business relationships, overcoming local cultural differences, and controlling unanticipated expenses related to such integration. We may also incur material costs relating to such integration. A prolonged diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties we encounter in connection with the integration of any business that we have acquired or may acquire in the future could prevent us from realizing the anticipated cost savings and revenue growth from our acquisitions. 15 Table of Contents We may be unable to obtain adequate financing to fund our capital requirements. We expect that over the next several years, a substantial portion of our cash flow will be used to finance the expansion of our company-owned brokerage services business to increase our market share in existing markets and to expand our geographical presence. Although we anticipate that our available funds and expected cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for at least the next twelve months, this assumption is based on management's ability to successfully execute its business plan, which includes increasing sales, generating positive operating cash flows and obtaining additional funding to support longer term capital requirements. We cannot assure you that we will obtain such financing at a reasonable cost or at all. Our inability to finance our planned capital expenditures or future acquisitions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to successfully execute our business development strategy, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We plan to continue to expand our business into new geographical areas in China and to enter into new businesses to diversify our portfolio of products and services. Because China is a large and diverse market, home buying trends and demands may vary significantly by region, and our experience in the markets in which we currently operate may not be applicable in other parts of China. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our experience to expand into other parts of China or to enter into businesses with respect to new products or services. In order to expand our presence in the primary and commercial market segments, in June 2011, we acquired 55% of the equity interest of Shanggu, an established local primary real estate agency service provider based in Beijing focusing on consulting and sales for commercial real estate projects, with a plan to acquire another 35% of its equity interest between 2014 and 2019. Our goodwill impairment losses in 2012 were RMB10.8 million (US$1.7 million), as a result of the shortfall in the results of operations of Shanggu. When we enter new markets, we may face intense competition from companies with greater experience or an established presence in the targeted areas or from other companies with similar expansion targets. In addition, our business model may not be successful in new and untested markets. Therefore, we may not be able to successfully execute our business development strategy, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may need to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or intangible assets arising from acquisitions become impaired, which would materially adversely affect our net income. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we account for our acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting, and such acquisitions have resulted in significant goodwill and intangible assets being recognized in our consolidated financial statements. These assets may become impaired in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations following such acquisitions. We are required under U.S. GAAP to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment annually, or more frequently, if facts and circumstances warrant a review. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization and slower or declining growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets occurs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we incurred an impairment loss of RMB10.8 million (US$1.7 million), as a result of the shortfall in the results of operations of Shanggu. 16 Table of Contents We may not maintain sufficient insurance coverage for the risks associated with our business operations. Risks associated with our business operations include, but are not limited to, claims for wrongful acts committed by our sales professionals, disputes with our regional sub-franchisors or franchisees that we do not own, the loss of intellectual property rights or the failure of information technology systems crucial to our operations, the loss of key personnel and risks posed by natural disasters. Any of these risks may result in significant losses. We maintain insurance coverage we consider customary in China for the industry in which we operate and in compliance with the insurance requirements imposed on us by our master sub-franchise agreement with Realogy. However, we cannot assure you that our insurance coverage is sufficient to cover any losses that we may sustain, or that we will be able to successfully claim our losses under our existing insurance policy on a timely basis or at all. If we incur any loss not covered by our insurance policies, or the compensated amount is significantly less than our actual loss or is not timely paid, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately report our financial results may be impaired, which could adversely impact investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on the company's internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for accelerated filers or large accelerated filers. We have been subject to these requirements since the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2012. See "Item 15. Controls and Procedures." Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report, which has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective in all material aspects as of December 31, 2012. However, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. This could in turn result in loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs, management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Seasonality in the real estate market could adversely affect our business. The real estate brokerage business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, real estate brokerage revenues and transaction volumes have generally been low during January and February as well as the late summer months in China. However, many of our expenses, such as those relating to leasing, administrative or sales and marketing efforts, are fixed and cannot be reduced during a seasonal slowdown. As a result, our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter. These fluctuations are likely to continue and operating results for any period may not be indicative of our performance in any future period. If our operating results for any quarterly period fall below investor expectations or estimates by securities research analysts, the trading price of our ADSs may decline. 17 Table of Contents Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by Mr. Donald Zhang and Mr. Harry Lu. The transactions between our shareholders may result in a change of control of our company. As of April 19, 2013, the latest practicable date, Mr. Donald Zhang, our chairman and chief executive officer, and Mr. Harry Lu, our vice chairman and president, beneficially owned approximately 40.2% of our outstanding shares. Accordingly, Messrs. Zhang and Lu have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, the election of directors and other significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. Pursuant to a secured exchangeable note issued by IFM Overseas Partners L.P. ("IFMOP"), a shareholder of our company and beneficially owned by Mr. Donald Zhang and Mr. Harry Lu, to GL Asia Mauritius II Cayman Ltd. ("GLA") on October 19, 2007 and amended and restated on January 27, 2010 ("Original Note"), GLA may exchange the Original Note for the ordinary shares of our company held by IFMOP at any time at least 55 days after our initial public offering. GLA, IFMOP, IFM Overseas Limited, the general partner of IFMOP, Donald Zhang, Harry Lu and our company entered into a restructuring deed on April 27, 2012 and a supplemental deed to the restructuring deed on June 6, 2012 (collectively, the "Restructuring Deed"). See "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Restructuring Deed." Pursuant to the Restructuring Deed, the Original Note was amended and restated on the terms set out in a new secured note ("New Note") dated as of April 27, 2012 and IFMOP mortgaged all ordinary shares of our company held by it to GLA to secure its obligations under the New Note. Under the New Note, GLA shall not be entitled to any right to exchange the New Note to our ordinary shares held by IFMOP. However, if any events of default set forth in the New Note occurs and GLA claims ownership to the mortgaged shares held by IFMOP, there might be a change of control of our company. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to, and we will, rely on exemptions from certain New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards applicable to U.S. issuers. This may afford less protection to our holders of ordinary shares and ADSs. Section 303A of the Corporate Governance Rules of the New York Stock Exchange requires listed companies to have, among other things, a majority of its board members be independent, a nominating and corporate governance committee consisting solely of independent directors, and an audit committee with a minimum of three members. As a foreign private issuer, however, we are permitted to, and we will, follow home country practice in lieu of the above requirements. The corporate governance practice in our home country, the Cayman Islands, does not require a majority of our board to consist of independent directors, the implementation of a nominating and corporate governance committee or the implementation of an audit committee. Since a majority of our board of directors will not consist of independent directors as long as we rely on the foreign private issuer exemption, fewer board members will be exercising independent judgment and the level of board oversight on our management may decrease as a result. An occurrence of a widespread health epidemic or other outbreaks could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of Influenza A virus subtype H1N1, or A (H1N1), Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, avian influenza or other epidemics or outbreaks on the economic and business climate. A prolonged outbreak of A (H1N1), any recurrence of SARS, avian influenza or other adverse public health developments in China or elsewhere in the 18 Table of Contents world could have a material and adverse effect on our business operations. Such outbreaks could significantly impact the real estate market and cause a temporary closure of our facilities. Such impact or closures would severely disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations could be disrupted if any of our sales professionals, staff or customers were suspected of having A (H1N1), SARS or avian influenza, since this could require us to quarantine some or all of our sales professionals and staff or disinfect our facilities and this may deter our customers or potential customers from visiting our sales offices. In addition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected to the extent that A (H1N1), SARS, avian influenza or other outbreak harms the global or Chinese economy in general. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on overall economic growth in China, which could materially and adversely affect our business. We conduct substantially all of our business operations in China. As the real estate sector is highly sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels, it tends to decline during general economic downturns. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects depend to a significant degree on economic developments in China. China's economy differs from the economies of most other countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement in the economy, the general level of economic development, growth rates and government control of foreign exchange and the allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 30 years, this growth has remained uneven across different periods, regions and among various economic sectors. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China's economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling the payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Since late 2003, the PRC government has implemented a number of measures, such as increasing the People's Bank of China ("PBOC")'s statutory deposit reserve ratio and imposing commercial bank-lending guidelines, which had the effect of slowing the growth of credit availability. For example, in 2010 and early 2011, the PBOC suspended loans to home buyers whose family members already own two or more properties and to non-local residents who cannot provide evidence showing that they have paid taxes or social insurance for more than one year, and raised the reserve ratio to cool lending and stabilize rising inflation. In accordance with the regulations from the central government, the local government of many cities issued regulations in early 2011 to forbid (1) any local family owning more than two properties and non-local family owning more than one property and (2) any non-local family that cannot provide evidence for tax payment or social welfare payment for more than one year to buy any property in the city, other than in Beijing where the requirement is five consecutive years. Any future actions and policies adopted by the PRC government could materially affect the Chinese economy and slow the growth of the real estate market in China, which could materially and adversely affect our business. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our subsidiaries in China to fund our cash and financing requirements, and any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are an offshore holding company, and we rely principally on dividends from our subsidiaries in China for our cash requirements, including for the service of any debt we may incur. Current PRC regulations permit our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, each of our subsidiaries in China is required to set aside a certain amount of its after-tax profits each year, if any, 19 Table of Contents to fund certain statutory reserves. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Furthermore, if our subsidiaries in China incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute dividends or other payments to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. PRC regulation of loans to and direct investments in PRC entities by offshore holding companies may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds of our initial public offering to make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries. We may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to or investments in our PRC subsidiaries are subject to approval by or registration with relevant governmental authorities in China. We may also decide to finance our subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. According to the relevant PRC regulations on foreign-invested enterprises in China, depending on the total amount of investment, capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries may be subject to the approval of the MOFCOM or its local branches. We may not obtain these government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future capital contributions by us to our subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such approvals, our ability to use the proceeds of our initial public offering and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. Fluctuations in the value of the RMB may have a material and adverse effect on your investment. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions and the foreign exchange policy adopted by the PRC government. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an appreciation of over 20% in the RMB against the U.S. dollar over the following three years. Provisions on Administration of Foreign Exchange, as amended in August 2008, further changed China's exchange regime to a managed floating exchange rate regime based on market supply and demand. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. On June 19, 2010, the PBOC announced that it had decided to proceed further with the reform of the RMB exchange rate regime to enhance the flexibility of the RMB exchange rate and that emphasis would be placed on reflecting market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. While so indicating its intention to make the RMB's exchange rate more flexible, the PBOC ruled out any sharp fluctuations in the currency or a one-off adjustment. On April 14, 2012, the PBOC announced that it would widen the daily trading band of the RMB and allow RMB to fluctuate by as much as 1% on both sides of a central reference exchange rate against the U.S. dollar effective from April 16, 2012. Our revenues and costs are mostly denominated in the Renminbi, and a significant portion of our financial assets are also denominated in the Renminbi. Any significant fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the amount of and any dividends we may pay on our ADSs in U.S. dollars. Any fluctuations in the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar could also result in foreign currency exchange losses for financial reporting purposes. 20 Table of Contents Governmental control of currency conversion may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively and affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under our current corporate structure, our Cayman Islands holding company may rely on dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from State Administration of Foreign Exchange ("SAFE") by complying with certain procedural requirements. Therefore, our PRC subsidiaries are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to us without prior approval from SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. But approval from or registration with appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. This could affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. The PRC government may also, at its discretion, restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currencies to satisfy our foreign currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners to personal liability, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries' ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. China has regulations that subject our PRC subsidiaries to additional restrictions if we have beneficial owners who are PRC residents that have not properly filed with authorities in China. See "Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulations—Regulations on Foreign Exchange Registration of Offshore Investment by PRC Residents." However, we cannot provide any assurances that any PRC resident who becomes our beneficial owner in the future will be able to comply with relevant regulations promulgated by SAFE, or SAFE regulations in a timely manner, or at all. Any failure or inability of our PRC resident beneficial owners to comply with the registration procedures may subject such PRC resident beneficial owners to certain fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment and financing activities, or limit our PRC subsidiaries' ability to distribute dividends or obtain foreign exchange-denominated loans. As it remains uncertain how the SAFE regulations will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval processes with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the SAFE regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. 21 Table of Contents Failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration requirements for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans may subject our PRC stock incentive plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. In December 2006, the PBOC promulgated Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange, or the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules, setting forth the requirements for foreign exchange transactions by PRC individuals under either the current account or the capital account. In January 2007, SAFE issued Implementing Rules for the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules, which, among other things, specified approval requirements for certain capital account transactions such as a PRC citizen's participation in the employee stock ownership plans or stock option plans of an overseas publicly-listed company. On February 15, 2012, the SAFE promulgated the Notice on Issues Related to Foreign Exchange Administration in Domestic Individuals' Participation in Share Incentive Plans of Overseas Listed Companies, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, PRC citizens who are granted stock options by an overseas listed company are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our PRC sales professionals and staff who have been granted stock options are subject to the Stock Option Rule. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. Any change in the preferential tax treatment we currently enjoy in the PRC may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our PRC subsidiaries are subject to the corporate income tax ("CIT") with the tax rate of 25% except for Beijing Kudian Tongfang Technology Co., Ltd., or Kudian, which was entitled to exemption from corporate income tax in 2011 and 2012 and a 50% reduction in corporate income tax for each of the following three years from 2013 to 2015 pursuant to a Software Enterprise Certification. See "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—A. Operating Results—Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations—Taxation." Various local governments in China have provided discretionary preferential tax treatments to us. However, these local governments may decide to reduce or eliminate these preferential tax treatments at any time. Furthermore, these local implementations of tax laws may be found to violate national laws or regulations and we may be subject to retroactive imposition of higher taxes as a result. Starting from 2007, we have been required to accrue taxes for these contingencies and other uncertain tax positions taken by us. The change in accounting requirement for reporting tax contingencies, any reduction or elimination of these preferential tax treatments and any retroactive imposition of higher taxes could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Dividends distributed to our investors and gain on sale of our shares may be subject to PRC withholding taxes, and we may be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income under the CIT Law. Under the Corporate Income Tax Law, or CIT Law and its implementation rules, all domestic and foreign invested companies are subject to a uniform enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% and dividends from PRC companies that are considered to be PRC resident enterprises to their foreign shareholders that are "non-resident enterprises" and any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or shares by such shareholders will be subject to a withholding tax at the rate of 10% unless a treaty otherwise provides. It is unclear whether dividends we pay with respect to our ordinary shares or ADSs, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. If we are required under the CIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are "non-resident enterprises" or individuals, or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our 22 Table of Contents ordinary shares or ADSs, the value of your investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. With the 5% or 10% PRC dividend withholding tax imposed under the CIT Law, depending on the tax jurisdiction of the receiver, we will incur incremental PRC tax liabilities when PRC profits are distributed by our PRC subsidiaries to their shareholders that are non-resident enterprises. In addition, under the CIT Law, enterprises organized under the laws of jurisdictions outside China with their "de facto management bodies" located within China may be considered PRC resident enterprises and therefore may be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on their worldwide income. See "Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—People's Republic of China Taxation." If we become a PRC resident enterprise under the PRC tax system and receive income other than dividends, our profitability and cash flow would be adversely impacted due to our worldwide income being taxed in China under the CIT Law. Foreign ownership of real estate agency and brokerage businesses in China is restricted under PRC regulations. This may limit our ability to establish our new PRC operating entities or to increase the registered capital of existing entities in the future. The amended Foreign Investment Industrial Guidance Catalogue, or the Catalogue, which was jointly promulgated by the National Development and Reform Commission ("NDRC") and the MOFCOM and came into effect on December 1, 2007, provided that real estate agency business and real estate brokerage business fell into the restricted category of foreign investment industries. The recently further amended Catalogue, which was promulgated on December 24, 2011 and became effective on January 30, 2012, continues to classify the real estate agency business and real estate brokerage business as restricted categories of foreign investment industries. Our PRC legal counsel, Commerce & Finance Law Offices, is of the opinion that only new real estate agency and brokerage businesses established after December 1, 2007, or any existing real estate agency and brokerage businesses that require new approvals from the MOFCOM or its local branch in order to increase their registered capital or conduct an equity transfer, would be affected by the Catalogue. It may be difficult or take a long time for us to obtain any approvals from the MOFCOM or its local branch in order to establish our new PRC operating entities or to increase the registered capital of existing entities in the future. We cannot assure you that, if we are required to seek such approvals in the future, we will be able to obtain them from the MOFCOM or its local branch on a timely basis, or at all. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could have a material and adverse effect on us. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Unlike under common law systems, decided legal cases have little value as precedents in subsequent legal proceedings. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general, and forms of foreign investment (including wholly foreign-owned enterprises and joint ventures) in particular. These laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new and are often changing, and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainties that could limit the reliability of the legal protections available to us. We cannot predict the effects of future developments in the PRC legal system. We may be required in the future to procure additional permits, authorizations and approvals for our existing and future operations, which may not be obtainable in a timely fashion, or at all. An inability to obtain such permits or authorizations may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents The implementation of the PRC Labor Contract Law and the Implementation Regulation for the PRC Labor Contract Law may increase our operating expenses and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The PRC Labor Contract Law, or Labor Contract Law, and its Implementation Regulation for the PRC Labor Contract Law, or Implementation Regulation may have brought substantial uncertainty as to its potential impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See "Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulations—Regulations of Labor Contracts." The implementation of the Labor Contract Law and the Implementation Regulation may increase our operating expenses, in particular our human resources costs and our administrative expenses. In the event that we decide to significantly modify our employment or labor policy or practice, or reduce the number of our sales professionals and staff, the Labor Contract Law may limit our ability to effectuate the modifications or changes in the manner that we believe to be most cost-efficient or otherwise desirable, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business, revenue growth, profitability and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected by any government policies and regulatory measures influencing China's real estate industry. The real estate market in China is typically affected by changes in government policies and regulatory measures affecting the property market, financial markets and related areas. In the past, the PRC government adopted various policies and regulatory measures to curb what it perceived as unsustainable growth in the real estate market, particularly at times when the real estate market in China has experienced rapid and significant growth. In 2008, the global financial crisis caused a slowdown in the real estate market in China. In response to the global financial crisis, the PRC government adopted a two-year RMB 4 trillion economic stimulus plan in November 2008. As a result, property sales in China recovered in 2009 and experienced significant growth thereafter until early 2010. Since April 2010, various administrative bodies launched a series of anti-speculative measures, which resulted in a general slowdown in the performance of the real estate market in the PRC. On April 17, 2010, the State Council issued the Notice on Firmly Preventing Overly Fast Growth of Real Property Prices in Certain Cities, or the April Notice, which stipulated that a property purchaser's down payment for such purchaser's first property purchase must not be less than 30% of the purchase price if gross floor area, or GFA, of the property is larger than 90 square meters; a purchaser's down payment for such purchaser's second property purchase must not be less than 50% of the purchase price and the mortgage loan interest rate must not be less than 1.1 times the base lending rate published by the PBOC; and a purchaser's down payment and mortgage loan interest rate must significantly increase for such purchaser's third and additional property purchases. On September 29, 2010, the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development ("MHURD"), the PBOC, the China Banking Regulatory Commission and the Ministry of Finance promulgated a series of administrative rules, or the September Rules, to further implement the April Notice. The September Rules require that commercial banks suspend granting of mortgage loans on a nationwide basis (i) for any third or additional property purchases of any purchaser or (ii) to any non-resident purchaser unable to provide proof of tax or social security payments for more than one year. On January 26, 2011, the State Council issued the Notice of the State Council on Issues Related to Further Enhancing the Regulation and Control of Real Estate Market, or the January Notice. According to the January Notice, for those households who purchase a second house using a mortgage loan, the down payment may not be lower than 60% of the purchase price regardless of the GFA of the property purchased. The mortgage loan interest may not be lower than 1.1 times the base lending rate published by the PBOC. The respective branches of the PBOC may raise the down payment ratio and mortgage interest rate on mortgage loans for a second home purchase based on the price control targets set by the local government, the policy requirements set by the State Council and the national 24 Table of Contents unified credit policies. All municipalities directly under the central government, all provincial capitals and other cities where the local housing prices are deemed to be too high or to have risen too fast are required to temporarily suspend the sale of housing units to families with registered local permanent residences that already own two or more housing units, families without registered local permanent residences that already own one or more housing units, and families without registered local permanent residences that cannot provide evidence of their local payment of taxes or social insurance premiums for a required period. To implement this requirement, local governments of more than 30 cities, including Beijing, Shanghai, Chongqing, Shenzhen and other major cities, introduced local rules of house-buying restrictions in 2011. On February 26, 2013, the General office of the State Council issued the Notice on Keeping on Enhancing the Regulation and Control of Real Estate Market, or the February Notice. According to the February Notice, the households who have purchased one house or who are non-residents and unable to provide proof of tax or social security payment for required years are prohibited from purchasing any house in relevant administrative region. Home owners who sell their houses will be levied an income tax as high as 20% of the profit they make in the relevant transaction. As of April 19, 2013, some major cities in China, including Beijing, Shanghai, Chengdu have respectively promulgated local measures to restrict housing purchases. As a real estate services provider, we are significantly affected by these government policies and regulatory measures as we primarily generate revenues based on the successful property transactions to which we provide real estate sales agency and consultancy services. Consequently, any of the following could cause a decline in property sales volumes and average selling prices as well as the related revenues we generate from our business: •any contractionary monetary policy adopted by the PRC government, including any significant rise in interest rates; •any adverse development in the credit markets or mortgage financing markets resulting from PRC government policies, such as the April Notice regarding the stringent down-payment and interest rate requirements aimed at curtailing ownership of multiple homes; •any significant increase in transaction costs as a result of changes in PRC government policies regarding real estate transaction taxes, such as the announcement regarding the reinstatement of a sales tax on residential property sales by individuals within five years of purchase; •any adverse change in PRC government policies regarding the acquisition and/or ownership of real estate property, such as the restrictions on the purchase of multiple homes for residents and non-residents that have been in place since early 2011; •any adverse change in PRC national or local government policies or practices regarding brokerage, referral or franchise business or related fees and commissions; or •any other PRC government policies or regulations that burden real estate transactions or ownership. Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is not permitted to be subject to inspection by Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Auditors of companies that are registered with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the United States Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the "PCAOB") and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in the People's Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. 25 Table of Contents This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating audits and quality control procedures of any auditors operating in China, including our auditors. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor's audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections, and investors may lose confidence in our auditor's audit procedure, and reported financial information and the quality of our financial statements. We may be adversely affected by the outcome of the proceedings instituted recently by the SEC against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm. In December 2012, the SEC instituted proceedings under Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the SEC's Rules of Practice against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that these firms had violated U.S. securities laws and the SEC's rules and regulations thereunder by failing to provide to the SEC the firms' work papers related to their audits of certain PRC-based companies that are publicly traded in the United States. Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) grants to the SEC the authority to deny to any person, temporarily or permanently, the ability to practice before the SEC who is found by the SEC, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, to have willfully violated any such laws or rules and regulations. While we cannot predict the outcome of the SEC's proceedings, if our independent registered public accounting firm were denied, temporarily or permanently, the ability to practice before the SEC, and we are unable to find another registered public accounting firm which can audit and issue a report on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined to not be in compliance with the requirements for financial statements of public companies with a class of securities registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Such a determination could ultimately lead to the delisting of our ADSs from the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"), which event would effectively terminate the trading market for our ADSs in the United States, and/or to the SEC's revoking the registration of our ADSs under the Exchange Act pursuant to Section 12(j) thereof, in which event broker-dealers thereafter would be prohibited from effecting transactions in, or inducing the purchase or sale of, our ADSs in the United States. Risks Related to Our ADSs We believe that we were and may continue to be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes, which could subject United States investors in the ADSs or ordinary shares to significant adverse tax consequences. Based on the quarterly average value of our assets for the taxable year ended December 31, 2012, we believe that were classified as a PFIC for the year ended December 31, 2012, and we may continue to be a PFIC in the current taxable year or a future taxable year. Accordingly, a U.S. Holder (as defined in "Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation") generally will be subject to special rules generally intended to reduce or eliminate any benefits from the deferral of United States federal income tax that a U.S. Holder could derive from investing in a non-United States corporation that does not distribute all of its earnings on a current basis, unless such U.S. Holder makes a timely "mark-to-market" election that may mitigate these consequences. Further, because we believe we were a PFIC for the year ended December 31, 2012, we generally will continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which such U.S. Holder continues to hold our ADSs or ordinary shares unless a U.S. Holder makes a timely mark-to-market election. For more information see the section titled "Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations." 26 Table of Contents Our ADSs would be subject to delisting from the NYSE if we are unable to achieve and maintain compliance with the NYSE's continued listing standards. Under the NYSE listing rules, we are required to maintain an average closing price of our ADSs of US$1.00 or higher over a 30-trading-day period. On October 20, 2011, we were notified by the NYSE that the price of our ADSs had fallen below the NYSE's continued listing standard relating to the minimum price requirement of the ADSs. As of October 19, 2011, the average closing price our ADSs over the preceding 30-trading-day period was US$0.99. Under the NYSE's rules, our ADS price and 30-trading-day average ADS price must be back above US$1.00 within six months following receipt of the notification from the NYSE in order for us to regain compliance with the minimum share price requirement. We changed the ratio of our ADS to ordinary share from 1:15 to 1:45, effective on April 16, 2012. On May 30, 2012 we were notified by the NYSE that a calculation of the price of our ADSs for the 30-trading days ended May 25, 2012 indicated that the price of our ADSs was above the NYSE's minimum requirement of US$1.00 based on a 30-trading day average and accordingly we were no longer considered below the US$1.00 continued listing criterion. In addition to the minimum share price requirement noted above, the NYSE's continued listing standards applicable to us also include the following: (i) the average global market capitalization is not less than US$50 million over a 30-trading-day period and the stockholders' equity is not less than US$50 million; (ii) the average global market capitalization is not less than US$15 million over a 30-trading-day period. The violation of the latter requirement will result in immediate initiation of suspension and delisting procedures. Although our market capitalization fluctuates and was below US$15 million for some time due to market volatility, we are currently in compliance with these two NYSE criteria for continued listing. However, if we are unable to maintain compliance with such NYSE criteria for continued listing, our ADSs would be subject to suspension and delisting. If we were unable to comply with the NYSE's continued listing standards, there may be a significant decline in the trading price, trading volume and liquidity of our ADSs. We also expect that the suspension and delisting of our ADSs would lead to decreases in analyst coverage and market-making activity relating to our ADSs, as well as reduced information about trading prices and volume. As a result, it could become significantly more difficult for our ADSs holders to sell their ADSs at prices comparable to those in effect prior to delisting or at all. The market price and trading volume for our ADSs may be volatile. In addition to the volatility in the price of our ADSs which could be caused by the materialization of any of the risks described in this section, the securities markets in the United States, China and elsewhere have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities or incurrence of additional indebtedness could result in additional dilution to our shareholders or increase our debt service obligations. Historically, we have relied principally on our operational sources of cash, as well as external sources of financing to fund our operations and capital expansion needs. We may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may pursue. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity, equity-linked or debt securities or enter into a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and 27 Table of Contents could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. It is uncertain whether financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Substantial future sales of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ordinary shares in the public market or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of April 19, 2013, the latest practicable date, we had 668,108,210 ordinary shares outstanding. The 3,761,465 ADSs representing 169,265,932 Class A Ordinary Shares are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. In addition, we have registered for resale an aggregate of 233,504,630 ordinary shares for Goldman Sachs Strategic Investments (Asia) L.L.C., or Goldman Sachs, and GLA. In addition, certain other holders of our ordinary shares will have the right to cause us to register the sale of those shares under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. We have adopted a shareholders rights plan, which, together with the other anti-takeover provisions of our amended and restated articles of association, could discourage a third party from acquiring us and could limit our shareholders' opportunity to sell their shares, including ordinary shares represented by our ADSs, at a premium. Our board of directors adopted a shareholders rights plan on November 17, 2010 and amended it on June 6, 2012. Under this rights plan, one right was distributed with respect to each of our ordinary shares outstanding at the closing of business on November 29, 2010. These rights entitle the holders to purchase ordinary shares from us at half of the market price at the time of purchase in the event that a person or group obtains ownership of 15% or more (or an additional 1% in the case of certain shareholders holding more than 15% at the time of the plan adoption) of our ordinary shares (including by acquisition of the ADSs representing an ownership interest in the ordinary shares) or enters into an acquisition transaction without the approval of our board of directors. This rights plan and the other anti-takeover provisions of our amended and restated articles of association could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material and adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our amended and restated articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges and relative participating, optional or special rights and their qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADSs or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms which may delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the 28 Table of Contents price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as otherwise described, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares represented by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs evidenced by the ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems doing so expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, conduct substantially all of our operations in China and all of our officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China through the subsidiaries in China directly or indirectly owned by us. All of our officers reside outside the United States and some or all of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an original action against us or against these individuals in a Cayman Islands or PRC court if you believe that we or our officers have infringed your rights under the U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States. The courts of the Cayman Islands would recognize as a valid judgment, a final and conclusive judgment in personam obtained in the United States Court against our company under which a sum of money is payable (other than a sum of money payable in respect of multiple damages, taxes or other charges of a like nature or in respect of a fine or other penalty) or, in certain circumstances, an in personam 29 Table of Contents judgment for non-monetary relief, and would give a judgment based thereon provided that (a) such courts had proper jurisdiction over the parties subject to such judgment (b) such courts did not contravene the rules of natural justice of the Cayman Islands, (c) such judgment was not obtained by fraud, (d) the enforcement of the judgment would not be contrary to the public policy of the Cayman Islands, (e) no new admissible evidence relevant to the action is submitted prior to the rendering of the judgment by the courts of the Cayman Islands, and (f) there is due compliance with the correct procedures under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law, Cap 22 (Law 3 of 1961, as consolidated and revised) (the "Companies Law") and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands have a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provide significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. 