Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Our earnings may be sensitive to fluctuations in demand for our products. Our earnings can be negatively impacted by declining demand brought on by varying factors, many of which are out of our control. By way of example, the severe downturn in the California dairy industry in recent years that resulted from over-supply of dairy had a negative effect on sales of alfalfa hay, and as a result, the demand for our alfalfa seed in the domestic market declined. At times, the demand for our certified seed has also declined in the Middle East as the result of common, uncertified seed flooding the market at lower prices than those at which we were willing to sell our certified seed. In fiscal 2012 and continuing into fiscal 2013, many of these factors corrected themselves, but these circumstances could continue or reoccur, and our earnings could again be negatively impacted. In addition, demand for our products could decline because of other supply and quality issues or for any other reason, including products of competitors that might be considered superior by end users. A decline in demand for our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our earnings may also be sensitive to fluctuations in market prices. Market prices for our alfalfa seed can be impacted by factors such as the quality of the seed and the available supply, including whether lower quality, uncertified seed is available. Growing conditions, particularly weather conditions such as windstorms, floods, droughts and freezes, as well as diseases and pests and the adventitious presence of GMO, are primary factors influencing the quality and quantity of the seed and, therefore, the market price at which we can sell our seed to our customers. A decrease in the prices received for our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability is vulnerable to cost increases. Future increase in costs such as the costs of growing seed through growers or by us internally, could cause our margins and profitability to decline unless we are able to pass along the increased price of production to our customers. We may not be able to increase the price of our seed sufficiently to maintain our margins and profitability in the future. We could encounter farming-related problems unrelated to natural disasters, crop disease and other normal agricultural risks. In fiscal 2012, we began growing a portion of our own alfalfa seed while still continuing to contract for the majority of our planted acreage with third-party farmers. A portion of our direct farming operations is carried out by our own employees on land we own and lease, and the remainder is performed by third-party farmers on their land but under our direction. Some of these arrangements span multiple years, and both direct farming methods carry large financial risks that we do not face when we pay growers for their seed on a per-pound basis. When we carry the farming risk, we can expect to incur costs of between $1,300 and $2,300 per acre, regardless of yields. We can and will make decisions that could adversely impact yields or quality, resulting in a smaller supply of seed to sell to our customers and increasing our cost of production to unprofitable levels. As we obtain additional farmland, by lease or purchase, both our farming costs and risks could continue to climb, and as our direct farming operations account for a significant portion of our seed requirements, the farming decisions we make could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our inventory of seed can be adversely affected by the market price being paid for other crops. Our seed production, both in California and Australia, substantially relies on unaffiliated growers to grow our proprietary seed and to sell it to us at negotiated prices each year. Growers have a choice of what crops to plant. If a particular crop is paying a materially higher price than has been paid in the past, growers may decide to not grow alfalfa seed in favor of receiving a higher return from an alternative crop planted on the same acreage. If our growers decline to a significant degree to plant the acreage on which we rely, and if we cannot find other growers to plant the lost acreage, our inventory of seed could be insufficient to satisfy the needs of our customers, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could materially decline. In addition, our customers could look to other suppliers for their seed if we cannot satisfy their requirements, and we may not be able to regain them as customers once our inventory levels have returned to normal. 16 Adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, crop disease, pests and other natural conditions can impose significant costs and losses on our business. Alfalfa seed, our primary product, is vulnerable to adverse weather conditions, including windstorms, floods, drought and temperature extremes, which are common but difficult to predict. In addition, alfalfa seed is vulnerable to crop disease and to pests, which may vary in severity and effect, depending on the stage of production at the time of infection or infestation, the type of treatment applied and climatic conditions. Unfavorable growing conditions can reduce both crop size and quality. While historically we have not grown the alfalfa seed we sell, these factors can nevertheless directly impact us by decreasing the quality and yields of our seed and reducing our inventory and the supply of seed we sell to our customers. Moreover, in fiscal 2012, we began growing a portion of our alfalfa seed directly as well as farming alfalfa hay, and therefore, we have a direct vulnerability to the same adverse effects of weather, pests, natural disasters and other natural conditions that concern our third-party growers. These factors can increase costs, decrease revenue and lead to additional charges to earnings, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because our alfalfa seed business is highly seasonal, our revenue, cash flows from operations and operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. We expect that the majority of our revenues will continue to be generated from our alfalfa seed business. Our alfalfa seed business is highly seasonal. The seasonal nature of our operations results in significant fluctuations in our working capital during the growing and selling cycles. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant variability in net sales, operating cash flows and net income on a quarterly basis. Because we depend on a core group of significant customers, our sales, cash flows from operations and results of operations may be negatively affected if our key customers reduce the amount of products they purchase from us. We rely upon a small group of customers for a large percentage of our net revenue, including Sorouh Agricultural Company, which serves the Saudi Arabian market. In fiscal 2013 and in fiscal 2014, Sorouh accounted for 24% and 13% of our consolidated net revenue, respectively. We expect that a small number of customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenue for the foreseeable future. Similarly, SGI relies upon a small group of customers for a large percentage of its net revenue, including House of Agriculture Spirou, A.E.B.E., which also serves the Saudi Arabian market, which accounted for 27% and 18% of SGI's net revenue in fiscal 2013 and in fiscal 2014, respectively. The loss of, or a significant adverse change in, our or SGI's relationship with these customers, or any other major customer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and operating cash flows. The loss of, or a reduction in orders from, any significant customers, losses arising from customers' disputes regarding shipments, product quality, or related matters, or our inability to collect accounts receivable from any major customer could have a material adverse effect on us. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain the relationships with our major customers or that they will continue to purchase our seed in the quantities that we expect and rely upon. If we cannot do so, our results of operations could suffer. Because we do not grow most of the alfalfa seed that we sell, we are substantially dependent on our network of growers, and our sales, cash flows from operations and results of operations may be negatively affected if our largest growers were to stop supplying seed to us. Historically, we have relied on a relatively small network of growers of alfalfa seed that together has provided all of the seed we sell to our customers. Although in fiscal 2012, we began growing and producing a portion of our own seed, most of our seed will continue to be grown under contracts with farmers, most of which are one-year contracts. Many of our growers have had long-term grower relationships with us. However, we do not have long-term supply contracts with any of these growers, which makes us particularly vulnerable to factors beyond our control. Events such as a shift in pricing caused by an increase in the value of commodity crops other than seed crops, increase in land prices, unexpected competition or reduced water availability could disrupt our supply chain. Any of these disruptions could limit the supply of seed that we obtain in any given year, adversely affecting supply and thereby lowering revenues. Such disruption could also damage our customer relationships and loyalty to us if we cannot supply the quantity of seed expected by them. We encountered a meaningful shift in our grower network in fiscal 2011, with some of our growers who had grown for us for many years opting to cut back their alfalfa seed acreage or to not grow alfalfa seed at all. This situation could reoccur and could negatively impact our revenues if we do not otherwise have sufficient seed inventory available for sale. 17 SGI relies on a pool of approximately 150 Australian growers to produce its proprietary seeds. Each grower arrangement is typically made for a term of seven to ten harvests. Although SGI's grower pool is substantially more diversified than our grower pool, it is not without risks. Adverse agronomic or climatic factors could lead to grower exodus and negatively impact SGI's revenues if SGI does not otherwise have sufficient seed inventory available for sale. A large majority of our customers are located within regions, including Saudi Arabia,that substantially restrict or prohibit the importation of GMO seed varieties. We actively test for the presence of GMO in our seed stock in the San Joaquin Valley. The presence of GMO alfalfa in significant amounts of our contracted seed production could severely limit the amount of seed that we have available to sell into Saudi Arabia and other locations that prohibit GMO seed varieties. Furthermore, due to widespread negative perception of GMO material, even if we were able to successfully remediate the accidental occurrence of GMO in our contracted seed production, there are no assurances that we would be able to achieve export sales to Saudi Arabia and other non-GMO locations at the same levels as we achieved before the accidental occurrence of GMO. A lack of availability of water in California or Australia could impact our business. Adequate quantities and correct timing of the application of water are vital for most agriculture to thrive. Whether particular farms are experiencing water shortages depends, in large part, on their location. However, continuing drought conditions can threaten all farmland other than those properties with their own water sources. Although alfalfa seed is not a water-intensive crop, the availability or the cost of water is a factor in the planting of the alfalfa hay grown from our seed. If the dairy farmers and others who purchase our alfalfa seed to grow hay cannot get an adequate supply of water, or if the cost of water makes it uneconomical for the farmers to grow alfalfa, we may not be able to sell our seed, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We cannot predict if water shortages will impact our business in the future, but if alfalfa hay growers are impacted by water shortages, our business could also materially decline. We face intense competition, and our inability to compete effectively for any reason could adversely affect our business. The alfalfa seed market is highly competitive, and our products face competition from a number of small seed companies, as well as large agricultural and biotechnology companies. We also now face new competition with the availability of Roundup Ready® alfalfa beginning to be a viable alternative. We compete primarily on the basis of consistency of product quality and traits, product availability, customer service and price. Many of our competitors are, or are affiliated with, large diversified companies that have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than we have. These resources give our competitors greater operating flexibility that, in certain cases, may permit them to respond better or more quickly to changes in the industry or to introduce new products more quickly and with greater marketing support. Increased competition could result in lower profit margins, substantial pricing pressure, reduced market share and lower operating cash flows. Price competition, together with other forms of competition, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and operating cash flows. If we are unable to estimate our customers' future needs accurately and to match our production to the demand of our customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We sell our seed primarily to dealers and distributors who, in turn, sell primarily to hay and dairy farmers who grow hay for dairy cattle and other livestock. Due to the nature of the alfalfa seed industry, we normally produce seed according to our production plan before we sell and deliver seed to distributors and dealers. Our dealers and distributors generally make purchasing decisions for our products based on market prices, economic and weather conditions and other factors that we and our dealers and distributors may not be able to anticipate accurately in advance. If we fail to accurately estimate the volume and types of products sought by the end users and otherwise adequately manage production amounts, we may produce more seed than our dealers and distributors want, resulting in excess inventory levels. On the other hand, if we underestimate demand, which has happened in the past, we may not be able to satisfy our dealers and distributors' demand for alfalfa seed, and thus damage our customer relations and end-user loyalty. Our failure to estimate end users' future needs and to match our production to the demand of our customers may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Our third-party distributors may not effectively distribute our products. We depend in part on third-party distributors and strategic relationships for the marketing and selling of our products. We depend on these distributors' efforts to market our products, yet we are unable to control their efforts completely. In addition, we are unable to ensure that our distributors comply with all applicable laws regarding the sale of our products, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. If our distributors fail to effectively market and sell our products, and in full compliance with applicable laws, our operating results and business may suffer. We extend credit to customers who currently represent or are expected to represent the largest percentage of our sales. Although payment terms for our seed sales generally are 90 days, we regularly extend credit to our largest customer, Sorouh Agricultural Company, and to other international customers. We expect that sales of our alfalfa seed varieties to Sorouh and to other international customers will represent a material portion of our revenue in fiscal 2015 and that we will continue to extend credit in connection with those sales. Because these customers are located in foreign countries, collection efforts, were they to become necessary, could be much more difficult and expensive. Moreover, future political and/or economic factors, as well as future unanticipated trade regulations, could negatively impact our ability to timely collect outstanding receivables from these important customers. The extension of credit to our major customers exposes us to the risk that our seed will be delivered but that we may not receive all or a portion of the payment therefor. If these customers are unable or unwilling to fully pay for the seed they purchase on credit, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially negatively impacted. Moreover, our internal forecasts on which we make business decisions throughout the year could be severely compromised, which could, in turn, mean that we spend capital for operations, investment or otherwise that we would not have spent had we been aware that the customer would not honor its credit extension obligation. Our current reliance on the seed development and production business does not permit us to spread our business risks among different business segments, and thus a disruption in our seed production or the industry would harm us more immediately and directly than if we were diversified. We currently operate mainly in the alfalfa seed business, and we do not expect this to change materially in the foreseeable future. Without business line diversity, we will not be able to spread the risk of our operations. Therefore, our business opportunities, revenue and income could be more immediately and directly affected by disruptions from such things as drought and disease or widespread problems affecting the alfalfa industry, payment disruptions and customer rejection of our varieties of alfalfa seed. If there is a disruption as described above, our revenue and income could be reduced, and our business operations might have to be scaled back. Moreover, because our stevia operations are also agriculture-based and centered in California's Central Valley where the majority of our United States-based alfalfa seed operations is located, it is possible that the same problems that might negatively impact our alfalfa seed business could, at the same time, negatively impact our stevia business. Accordingly, we do not consider our stevia business a hedge against the risks of our alfalfa seed business. If we fail to introduce and commercialize new alfalfa seed varieties, we may not be able to maintain market share, and our future sales may be harmed. The performance of our new alfalfa seed varieties may not meet our customers' expectations, or we may not be able to introduce and commercialize specific seed varieties. Reorder rates are uncertain due to several factors, many of which are beyond our control. These include changing customer preferences, which could be further complicated by the new availability of Roundup Ready® alfalfa, competitive price pressures, our failure to develop new products to meet the evolving demands of the end users, the development of higher-demand products by our competitors and general economic conditions. The process for new products to gain market recognition and acceptance is long and has uncertainties. If we fail to introduce and commercialize a new seed variety that meets the demand of the end user, if our competitors develop products that are favored by the end users, or if we are unable to produce our existing products in sufficient quantities, our growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected, and our revenue may decline. In addition, sales of our new products could replace sales of some of our current similar products, offsetting the benefit of even a successful product introduction. 19 Deregulation of Roundup Ready® alfalfa could negatively impact our sales and production of alfalfa seed. In December 2010, the USDA published the final environmental impact statement on Roundup Ready® alfalfa. Following that publication, in late January 2011, the USDA announced the deregulation of Roundup Ready® alfalfa, without imposing any federal regulations, providing any guidance pertaining to field separation or mandating any other conditions. The availability of Roundup Ready® alfalfa could adversely impact our sales. Domestically, hay farmers may choose the GMO alfalfa seed over our seed in order to control weeds with Roundup®, Monsanto's powerful herbicide. GMO crops currently are prohibited in most of the international markets in which our proprietary seed is currently sold. The greater the use of GMO seed in California, the greater the risk that the adventitious presence of GMO material in our seed production will occur due to pollination from hay fields or other seed feeds. In fiscal 2013, the number of lots of our seed that tested positive for the adventitious presence of GMO was greater than in fiscal 2012. The preliminary testing results for our most recent harvest suggest that less than 1% of our estimated annual global production and sourced seed for fiscal 2014 will contain GMO material. Our testing is limited to detecting the presence of GMO material. The extent to which an affected batch of seed contains GMO material must be determined by a third party laboratory and we will undertake testing of this kind on an as-needed basis. Our seed containing GMO material can only be sold domestically or in other jurisdictions that permit the importation of GMO alfalfa. We are taking steps to reduce the risk of the adventitious presence of GMO material in our seed crops. These steps include seeking collaborative agreements, regulations, or other measures to ensure neighboring farms that raise GMO alfalfa in the San Joaquin Valley limit the extent to which they allow the flowering and cross-pollination of their GMO-based crops with our conventional non-GMO crops to occur; and acquiring land and expanding our contracted grower base in the Imperial Valley of California, where to our knowledge GMO alfalfa is not yet being grown. In addition, we may increase the use of leafcutter bees to pollinate our crops, because these bees do not form colonies and fly more limited ranges than honey bees, which makes the cutter bees less likely to bring GMO-bearing pollen into our fields. Finally, we plan to grow a portion of our S&W varieties in South Australia. We believe that our testing program is superior to those of our competitors in the non-GMO alfalfa seed market. However, due to inherent weaknesses in the testing process, including limited sample sizes, we can make no assurances that our testing program, without more, will continually satisfy our customers and end users that our seed is GMO free or that our farming operations are adequately isolated from GMO pollination. In April 2013, we entered into a license agreement with Forage Genetics to develop and commercialize seed varieties that incorporate proprietary traits, including the Roundup Ready® trait. This agreement further documented and formalized our previously announced collaboration with Forage Genetics and Monsanto to develop genetically modified versions of certain of our proprietary alfalfa varieties. This agreement contemplates lab work and field trials and may never result in the development of commercially viable seeds. Unless and until we actually begin selling Roundup Ready® alfalfa, our domestic sales could be negatively impacted, although the actual impact of Roundup Ready® alfalfa on the alfalfa seed market in general and on sales of our proprietary seed in particular is currently unknown. The adoption of GOZ zones in our primary alfalfa seed growing region in California could impact the international sales of our S&W varieties. A substantial portion of our S&W varieties is grown in Fresno County, California for both domestic and international sales. In January 2012, the National Alfalfa & Forage Alliance held a vote of growers in Fresno County to determine if they should form a Genetically Enhanced, or GE, Grower Opportunity Zone, or GOZ, in part of Fresno County. A GOZ is a seed grower-defined region within which a super-majority of growers (by number of growers or acreage) elects to focus on the production of either Adventitious Presence Sensitive or GE alfalfa seed, including Roundup Ready® alfalfa. The January 2012 vote to organize the proposed GOZ in Fresno County failed to obtain the required super-majority, and therefore the motion failed. However, there is no assurance that another vote will not be taken and that, at a future meeting, the proposal will not succeed in obtaining the required vote to form a GOZ for GMO alfalfa. If a GOZ were formed in Fresno County or in any other county where we currently produce seed or might produce seed in the future, our efforts to grow conventional alfalfa seed for international sale in that county could be threatened because of the isolation and contamination issues about which we remain concerned. In such circumstance, we might be forced to find alternative locations to grow our proprietary S&W alfalfa seed varieties for sale into Saudi Arabia and other locations that prohibit GMO seed, and there is no assurance that we would be able to do so successfully. 20 The presence of GMO alfalfa in Australia or California could impact our international sales. GMO alfalfa varieties have not been approved by Australia's Office of the Gene Technology Regulator, and all GMO plant varieties are currently barred in South Australia. Because GMO plant varieties are currently barred, SGI's representation that its alfalfa seed products are free from GMO is critical as many of the jurisdictions to which SGI exports its alfalfa seed for sale, including Saudi Arabia, strictly prohibit the importation of GMO seed varieties. Field testing and commercial production of GMO alfalfa seed has been ongoing in the U.S. for several years, and the possibility now exits that planting seed imported into Australia from the U.S. may unintentionally contain GMO material, which, in turn, could intermingle with Australian alfalfa crops. Although Australia has a very comprehensive GMO monitoring protocols in place if SGI's alfalfa crops were to test positive for the adventitious presence of GMO, its ability to sell into Saudi Arabia and other locations that prohibit GMO seed varieties could be jeopardized, if not entirely prohibited. A large majority of our customers are located within regions, including Saudi Arabia, which substantially restrict or prohibit the importation of GMO seed varieties. We actively test for the presence of GMO in our seed stock in the San Joaquin Valley. The presence of GMO alfalfa in significant amounts of our contracted seed production could severely limit the amount of California seed that we have available to sell into Saudi Arabia and other locations that prohibit GMO seed varieties. Furthermore, due to widespread negative perception of GMO material, even if we were able to successfully remediate the accidental occurrence of GMO in SGI's crops or our California seed production, there are no assurances that we would be able to achieve export sales to Saudi Arabia and other non-GMO locations at the same levels as we achieved before the accidental occurrence of GMO. Our per acre pricing model could cause us to lose money on those contracts. In fiscal 2012, we entered into three contracts, covering approximately 823 acres, with a California grower under which we deviated from our historical model and agreed to pay the grower a fixed price per acre rather than a fixed price per cleaned pound of seed. As such, regardless of the amount of seed this grower produces, we will be required to pay the fixed price per acre. This could result in our paying more per pound of seed than we are able to sell the seed to our customers, thereby causing a loss on this acreage. Moreover, these contracts cover a four- year period, and therefore, we could potentially be overpaying for seed on these contracts through crop year 2015 if the grower does not produce the minimum amount of seed we expect. These contracts could negatively impact our results of operations. We may not be able to fully recover the costs of our initial stevia operations. Our stevia operations are subject to the same farming risks that other agricultural operations face, including, weather-related events and natural disasters, which, depending on the growth cycle at the time of such event, could materially negatively impact our yields. Our yields also could be negatively impacted by our farming practices. In May 2013, due to weeding-control practices, damage to a majority of our stevia fields occurred and we determined to discontinue farming these fields and to record a crop loss on stevia totaling $2,333,123 for the year ended June 30, 2013. We have ceased commercial production of stevia. Although we continue our breeding program and are considering commercial applications for our proprietary stevia, none of these ventures may ever be profitable or allow us to recoup the amounts expended in connection with our initial stevia production operations. The stevia market may not develop as we anticipate, and therefore our continued research and development activities with respect to stevia may never become profitable to us. There are a number of challenges to market acceptance of stevia as a natural, non-caloric sweetener. Stevia has its own unique flavor, which can affect the taste of some foods and beverages. A common complaint about stevia is that some of its extracts and derivatives have a bitter aftertaste, and its taste does not uniformly correspond to all regional taste preferences or combine well with some food flavors. Other factors that could impact market acceptance include the price structure compared to other sugar substitutes and availability. If the high-intensity, non-caloric sweetener market declines or if stevia fails to achieve substantially greater market acceptance than it currently enjoys, we might not ever be able to profit from our continued research and development activities relating to stevia or any commercial applications that we derive therefrom. Even if products conform to applicable safety and quality standards, sales could be adversely affected if consumers in target markets lose confidence in the safety, efficacy and quality of stevia. Adverse publicity about stevia or stevia-based products may discourage consumers from buying products that contain stevia. Any of 21 these developments could adversely impact the future amount of dry leaf stevia, processed stevia leaves or extract we are able to sell, which could adversely impact our results of operations. If demand for stevia does not increase, there may be excess capacity that could decrease the market price of stevia and reduce our potential future revenue opportunities Historically, stevia has been marketed and sold in the U.S. as a dietary supplement, available in natural food and health food stores. Since December 2008, stevia producers have increased production capacity in expectation of a large demand for stevia products. We started our stevia operation because we expect that demand for stevia will increase significantly in the future, particularly since Reb-A, a highly refined stevia extract, has been the subject of several "generally recognized as safe", or GRAS, notices in the U.S. that support the conclusion of the companies that Reb-A is generally recognized as safe for its intended use. Since the FDA has not objected to these notifications, Reb-A may be used as a sweetener in food and beverages, and a market for products incorporating Reb-A has developed and grown since then. However, there can be no assurance that there will continue to be widespread growth in the demand for stevia extracts or that FDA will not subsequently question the GRAS status of Reb-A based on new data or information. If demand for stevia extracts does not increase to the extent predicted by the industry, the stevia market may be subject to significant excess capacity, which would put downward pressure on the market price of stevia and negatively impact our expectations with respect to stevia as a revenue source. There are difficulties in managing our storage system, which may result in damage to our products held in storage. Alfalfa seed and stevia storage entails risks, including management of moisture, temperature and humidity. Any material storage problem may result in damage to our seed or dried stevia leaf and, thus, could create operating losses. If we are unable to acquire sufficient raw materials or produce sufficient finished product, we will not be able to meet the demands of our customers. We must acquire sufficient alfalfa seed to meet the demands of our customers. An alfalfa seed shortage could result in loss of sales and damage to our reputation. Because our proprietary seed is only available through our direct farming efforts and from our contract growers, if our growers become unable or unwilling to produce the required commercial quantities of alfalfa seed on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, we will likely be unable to meet customer demand. We do not own or lease sufficient farmland to make up for a significant loss of acreage from our grower network. The failure to satisfy our customers not only could adversely impact our financial results but could irreparably harm our reputation. The loss of key employees or the failure to attract qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to run our business. The loss of any of our current executives, key employees or key advisors, or the failure to attract, integrate, motivate and retain additional key employees, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we have employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operations Officer, Vice President of Sales and Marketing, Vice President of Breeding and Genetics and Vice President of Processing, any employee could leave our employ at any time if he chose to do so. We do not carry "key person" insurance on the lives of any of our management team. As we develop additional capabilities, we may require more skilled personnel who must be highly skilled and have a sound understanding of our industry, business or processing requirements. Recruiting skilled personnel is highly competitive. Although to date we have been successful in recruiting and retaining qualified personnel, there can be no assurance that we will continue to attract and retain the personnel needed for our business. The failure to attract or retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to manage expansion of our operations effectively. We expect our operations to grow rapidly in the near future, both as we expand our historical alfalfa seed business both domestically and internationally, expand our mill utilization, increase our growers' production, and develop our stevia business. We also are looking to expand our business through acquisition of synergistic companies. These efforts will require the addition of employees, expansion of facilities and greater oversight, perhaps in diverse locations. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute on our business strategies or respond to competitive pressures, and we 22 may have difficulties maintaining and updating the internal procedures and the controls necessary to meet the planned expansion of our overall business. Our management will also be required to maintain and expand our relationships with customers, suppliers and third parties as well as attract new customers and suppliers. We expect that our sales and marketing costs will increase as we grow our product lines and as we increase our sales efforts in new and existing markets. Our current and planned operations, personnel, systems and internal procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future growth. We may be unable to successfully integrate acquisitions, including those of IVS and SGI. As part of our growth strategy, we may acquire additional businesses, product lines or other assets, including real property. We may not be able to locate or make suitable acquisitions on acceptable terms, and future acquisitions may not be effectively and profitably integrated into our business. Acquisitions involve risks that could adversely affect our operating results, including diverting management resources; integration of the operations and personnel of the acquired operations; write downs of acquired intangible assets; liabilities associated with the acquired business or assets; and possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired operations. We intend to conduct an extensive due diligence investigation for any business we consider acquiring. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business that we acquire, this diligence may not identify all material issues that may be present inside a particular target business, and factors outside of the target business and outside of our control may later arise. If this diligence fails to discover or identify material issues relating to a target business, or the industry or environment in which it operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure its operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in losses to us. In fiscal 2013, we acquired all of the assets of IVS and all of the outstanding stock of SGI and believe these acquisitions will enhance our future financial performance by capitalizing on natural operational synergies. These acquisitions present challenges to management, including the integration of our administrative operations, systems and personnel with those of IVS and SGI. These acquisitions also pose other risks commonly associated with similar transactions, including unanticipated liabilities, unexpected costs and the diversion of management's attention to the integration of the operations of the combined companies. Any difficulties that our combined company encounters in the transition and integration processes, and any level of integration that is not successfully achieved, could adversely affect our revenue, level of expenses and operating results. We may also experience operational interruptions or the loss of key employees, suppliers and customers. As a result, notwithstanding our expectations, we may not realize the anticipated benefits or cost savings of the IVS and SGI acquisitions. SGI's grower pool is dependent on a limited number of milling facilities to process its seed, with particular dependence on a dominant operator whose commercial interests may be adverse to SGI. Only five milling facilities are regularly used by SGI's grower pool to clean and process SGI seed. Should one or more of these facilities become unusable, there could be a significant effect on SGI's ability to get its Australian seed to market in a timely manner or at all. SGI's growers use Tatiara Seeds Pty Ltd ("Tatiara") to process approximately 70% of seed grown for SGI. The owner of Tatiara has begun to sell his own common seed and is now a competitor of SGI. This competing seed business creates a potential conflict of interest for Tatiara in the care and handling of SGI's product. SGI is thinly capitalized and may become dependent upon us for financing. Because SGI has relatively little net working capital it is substantially dependent upon its credit arrangement with NAB to purchase its seed inventory. SGI has breached debt covenants relating to this credit arrangement in the past, and if future breaches of this credit arrangement or other reasons cause this credit arrangement to become unavailable to SGI, SGI may become reliant on us to finance its operations or for financial guarantees. SGI's financial dependency upon us could have a negative adverse effect upon our financial condition. 23 SGI is dependent on a pool of seed growers and a favorable pricing model. SGI relies on a pool of approximately 150 Australian contract growers to produce its proprietary seeds. In this system, growers contract with SGI to grow SGI's seed for terms of seven to ten years in the case of alfalfa and two to three years for white clover. SGI uses a staggered payment system with the growers of its alfalfa and white clover; the payment amounts are based upon an estimated budget price, or EBP, for compliant seed. EBP is a forecast of the final price that SGI believes will be achieved taking into account prevailing and predicted market conditions at the time the estimate is made. Following the grower's delivery of uncleaned seed to a milling facility, SGI typically pays 40% of the EBP to the grower based on pre-cleaning weight. Following this initial payment and prior to the final payment, SGI will make a series of scheduled progress payments and, if applicable, a bonus payment for "first grade" alfalfa seed. The final price payable to each grower (and therefore the total price) is dependent upon and subject to adjustment based upon the clean weight of the seed grown, on the average price at which SGI sells the pooled seed and other costs incurred by SGI. Accordingly, the total price paid by SGI to its growers may be more or less than EBP. This arrangement exposes SGI's business to unique risks, including, the potential for current growers to make collective demands that are unfavorable to SGI and the potential for our competitors to offer more favorable terms for seed production, including fixed (instead of variable) payment terms. SGI's reliance upon an estimated purchase price to growers could result in material accounting discrepancies in our consolidated financial statements. Our subsidiary SGI does not fix the final price for seed payable to its growers until the completion of a given year's sales cycle, pursuant to the standard contract production agreement. We record an estimated unit price and accordingly inventory, cost of goods sold and gross profits are based upon management's best estimate of the final purchase price to our SGI growers. To the extent the estimated purchase price varies from the final purchase price for seed, the adjustment to actual could materially impact the results in the period when the difference between estimates and actuals are identified. If the actual purchase price is in excess of our estimated purchase price, this would negatively impact our financial results including a reduction in gross profits and net income. The value of SGI's rights under the Plant Breeder's Rights (PBR) Act could diminish due to technological developments or challenges by competitors, making its proprietary alfalfa seed varieties less competitive. SGI is substantially dependent upon the PBR Act for the protection of its proprietary varieties. Currently, SGI's SuperSiriver, SuperSequel, SuperAurora, SuperHaifa, SuperLadino, SuperHuia, SuperSonic, SuperStar, SuperSiriver II and SuperNova varieties are protected under the PBR Act. If any competitors of SGI independently develop new seeds that customers or end users determine are better than SGI's existing varieties, such developments could adversely affect SGI's competitive position. We may need to raise additional capital in the future. We believe our current cash and cash equivalents on hand, together with borrowings available under our credit facility will be sufficient to finance anticipated capital, financing and operating requirements for the foreseeable future. However, if we elect to aggressively pursue our growth strategies, whether through acquisitions or organic growth, we likely will need additional capital to fund these strategies. If we are required to raise additional capital in the future, such additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, or available at all, may be dilutive to our existing stockholders if in the form of equity financing, or contain restrictions on the operation of our business if in the form of debt financing. If we fail to obtain additional capital as and when required, such failure could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in government policies and laws could adversely affect international sales and therefore our financial results. Historically, sales to our distributors who sell our proprietary alfalfa seed varieties outside the U.S. have constituted a substantial portion of our annual revenue. We anticipate that sales into international markets will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales and that continued growth and profitability will require further international expansion, particularly in the Middle East and Africa. Our financial results could be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of U.S. and non-U.S. governments, agencies and similar organizations. These conditions include but are not limited to changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, trade regulations affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, local labor conditions and regulations, reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries, changes in the 24 regulatory or legal environment, burdensome taxes and tariffs and other trade barriers. International risks and uncertainties, including changing social and economic conditions as well as terrorism, political hostilities and war, could lead to reduced distribution of our products into international markets and reduced profitability associated with such sales. We are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. Our operations, both inside and outside the United States, are subject to risks inherent in conducting business globally and under the laws, regulations and customs of various jurisdictions and geographies. Although we sell seed to various regions of the world, our sales outside the United States in fiscal year 2014, including those of SGI, were principally to customers in the Middle East and North Africa. Accordingly, developments in those parts of the world generally have a more significant effect on our operations than developments in other places. Our operations outside the United States are subject to special risks and restrictions, including: fluctuations in currency values and foreign-currency exchange rates; exchange control regulations; changes in local political or economic conditions; governmental pricing directives; import and trade restrictions; import or export licensing requirements and trade policy; restrictions on the ability to repatriate funds; and other potentially detrimental domestic and foreign governmental practices or policies affecting U.S. companies doing business abroad, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the trade sanctions laws and regulations administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control. Acts of terror or war may impair our ability to operate in particular countries or regions, and may impede the flow of goods and services between countries. Customers in weakened economies may be unable to purchase our products, or it could become more expensive for them to purchase imported products in their local currency, or sell their commodity at prevailing international prices, and we may be unable to collect receivables from such customers. Further, changes in exchange rates may affect our net income, the book value of our assets outside the United States, and our shareholders' equity. Failure to comply with the laws and regulations that affect our global operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar laws could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies, including their suppliers, distributors and other commercial partners, from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the countries in which we distribute products. We are in the process of adopting formal policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws. If our employees or other agents, including our distributors or suppliers, are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental regulation affecting our alfalfa seed or stevia products could negatively impact our business. As an agricultural company, we are subject to evolving environmental laws and regulations by federal and state governments. Federal laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Federal Seed Act, and potentially regulations of the FDA. In addition, the State of California regulates our application of agricultural chemicals in connection with seed harvest. Our Australian operations are also subject to a number of environmental laws, regulations and policies, including in particular the Environment Protection Act 1993 (SA), the Agricultural and Veterinary Products (Control of Use) Act 2002 (SA), the Genetically Modified Crops Management Act 2004 (SA), the Dangerous Substances Act 1979 (SA), the Controlled Substances Act 1984 (SA) and related regulations and policies. These laws regulate matters including air quality, water quality and the use and disposal of agricultural chemicals. Our failure to comply with these laws and related regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, it is possible that future developments, such as increasingly strict environmental laws and enforcement policies thereunder, and further restrictions on the use of agricultural chemicals, could result in increased compliance costs which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 25 Insurance covering defective seed claims may become unavailable or be inadequate. Defective seed could result in insurance claims and negative publicity. Although we carry general liability insurance to cover defective seed claims, such coverage may become unavailable or be inadequate. Even if coverage is offered, it may be at a price and on terms not acceptable to us. If claims exceed coverage limits, or if insurance is not available to us, the occurrence of significant claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be exposed to product quality claims, which may cause us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, may cause us to pay significant damage awards. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to our seed or dried stevia leaf quality. The defense of these proceedings and claims can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert efforts and resources of our management personnel. An adverse determination in any such proceeding could subject us to significant liability and damage our market reputation and prevent us from achieving increased sales and market share. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase of our products. The recent global economic downturn has significantly impacted the agricultural industry which in turn has negatively affected our business. The global economic downturn of the past several years has significantly impacted the agricultural industry, with many farmers losing their farms or laying fallow their fields, as well as other negative impacts. The full effect of this global economic downturn on growers, customers, vendors and other business partners cannot be known with any certainty. For example, major customers may have financial challenges unrelated to us that could result in a decrease in their business with us or, in extreme cases, cause them to file for bankruptcy protection. Similarly, parties to contracts may be forced to breach their obligations. Although we exercise prudent oversight of the financial strength of our major business partners and seek to diversify our risk to any single business partner, there can be no assurance that a significant grower, customer or other business partner that may be unable to meet its contractual commitments to us. Similarly, continued stresses and pressures that could have wide-ranging negative effects on our industry's future. Capital and credit market issues could negatively affect our liquidity, increase our costs of borrowing and disrupt the operations of our growers and customers. The capital and credit markets have experienced increased volatility and disruption over the past several years, making it more difficult for companies to access those markets. Although we believe that our operating cash flows, recent access to the capital market and our lines of credit will permit us to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future, continued or increased volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets may impair our liquidity or increase our costs of borrowing, if we need to access the credit market. Our business could also be negatively impacted if our growers or customers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets or a continued slowdown in the general economy. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business and prospects may be harmed. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent upon the proprietary nature of the seeds, seedlings, processes, technologies and materials owned by or used by us or our growers. If any competitors independently develop new traits, seeds, seedlings, processes or technologies that customers or end users determine are better than our existing products, such developments could adversely affect our competitive position. We do not rely upon patent protection, but guard our proprietary property by exercising a high degree of control over the alfalfa seed supply chain from our S&W varieties, as well as over our stevia material. In Australia, SGI has secured protection under the PBR Act for its five most popular varieties. However, even with these measures in place, it would be possible for persons with access to our seed or plants grown from our seed to reproduce and market our proprietary seed varieties, which could significantly harm our business and our reputation. Litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary property and determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of competitors. Intellectual property litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management and other resources. If we are unable to successfully protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors could market products that compete with our proprietary products without obtaining a license from us. 26 Risks Related to Investment in Our Securities The value of our common stock and Class B warrants can be volatile. The overall market and the price of our common stock and Class B warrants can fluctuate greatly. The trading price of our common stock and Class B warrants may be significantly affected by various factors, including but not limited to: ● economic status and trends in the dairy industry, which underlies domestic demand for our alfalfa seed; ● market conditions for alfalfa seed in the Middle East and Africa, where a substantial amount of our seed historically has been purchased by end users; ● quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; ● our ability to meet the earnings estimates and other performance expectations of investors or financial analysts; ● fluctuations in the stock prices of our peer companies or in stock markets in general; and ● general economic or political conditions. Our quarter-to-quarter performance may vary substantially, and this variance, as well as general market conditions, may cause the price of our securities to fluctuate greatly and potentially expose us to litigation. Our alfalfa seed business, our primary source of revenue, is highly seasonal because it is tied to the growing and harvesting seasons. If sales in particular quarters are lower than expected, our operating results for these quarters could cause our share price to decline. Our future expense estimates are based, in large part, on estimates of future revenue, which is difficult to predict. We expect to continue to make significant expenditures in order to expand production, sales, marketing and administrative systems and processes. We may be unable to, or may elect not to, adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. If our increased expenses are not accompanied by increased revenue in the same quarter, our quarterly operating results would be harmed. In one or more future quarters, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of investors or analysts, and the trading price of our securities may decline as a consequence. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results will not be a good indication of our future performance and should not be relied upon to predict the future performance of our stock price. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have often been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. The redemption of the Class B warrants may require warrant holders to sell or exercise those warrants at a time that may be disadvantageous for them. Our Class B warrants are redeemable, in whole or in part, for $0.25 upon 30 days' notice, provided that our common stock has closed at a price at least equal to $13.75 for five consecutive trading days. The terms of our warrants prohibit us from redeeming them unless we have a current and effective registration statement available covering the exercise of the warrants. If we exercise our right to redeem the Class B warrants, those warrants will be exercisable until the close of business on the date fixed for redemption in such notice. If any warrant called for redemption is not exercised by such time, it will cease to be exercisable, and the holder thereof will be entitled only to the redemption price of $0.25 per warrant. Notice of redemption of the public warrants could force holders to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for them to do so or to sell the warrants at the current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants or accept the redemption price, which is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants at the time of redemption. 27 While the Class B warrants are outstanding, it may be more difficult to raise additional equity capital. During the term that the Class B warrants are outstanding, the holders of those warrants are given the opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock. We may find it more difficult to raise additional equity capital while these warrants are outstanding. Also, we may be forced to honor the exercise of the warrants at times when we may be able to obtain additional equity capital on more favorable terms from other sources. Future sales or the potential for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could cause the trading price of our common stock and warrants to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through subsequent equity offerings. As of June 30, 2014, we had 1,590,000 warrants to purchase our common stock outstanding. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our stock and redeemable warrants to decline and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. For example, the grant of a large number of stock options or other securities under an equity incentive plan or the sale of our securities in private placement transactions at a discount from market value could adversely affect the market price of our common stock or warrants. If we issue shares of preferred stock, your investment could be diluted or subordinated to the rights of the holders of preferred stock. Our board of directors is authorized by our articles of incorporation to establish classes or series of preferred stock and fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such class or series without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Any shares of preferred stock so issued could have priority over our common stock with respect to dividend or liquidation rights. Although we have no plans to issue any shares of preferred stock or to adopt any new series, preferences or other classification of preferred stock, any such action by our board of directors or issuance of preferred stock by us could dilute your investment in our securities or subordinate your holdings to the higher priority rights of the holders of shares of preferred stock issued in the future. If we do not maintain an effective registration statement or comply with applicable state securities laws, warrant holders may not be able to exercise the Class B warrants. For holders of our Class B warrants to be able to exercise those securities, the exercise must be covered by an effective and current registration statement and qualify or be exempt under the securities laws of the state or other jurisdiction in which the warrant holders live. Although we will endeavor to have a current registration statement available at all times when the warrants are in-the-money, warrant holders may encounter circumstances in which they will be unable to exercise the Class B warrants. We can give no assurance that we will be able to continue to maintain a current registration statement relating to the shares of our common stock underlying the redeemable warrants or that an exemption from registration or qualification will be available throughout their term. This may have an adverse effect on demand for the redeemable warrants and the prices that can be obtained from reselling them. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance. Although we have not provided earnings guidance to date, from time to time, we may release guidance in our quarterly earnings releases, our quarterly earnings conference call, or otherwise, regarding our future performance that represents our management's estimates as of the date of release. If given, this guidance, which includes forward-looking statements, will be based on projections prepared by our management. These projections are not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our registered public accountants nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the projections, and accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto. 28 Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. If we issue guidance, we will generally state possible outcomes as high and low ranges that are intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed but are not intended to represent that actual results could not fall outside of the suggested ranges. The principal reason that we would release guidance would be to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such persons. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance, if given, is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from our guidance, and the variations may be material. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged not to rely upon, or otherwise consider, our guidance in making an investment decision about our securities. Our securities are thinly traded and there may not be an active, liquid trading market for them. We may not maintain an active trading market for our securities on The Nasdaq Capital Market, or the volume of trading may not be sufficient to allow for timely trades. Investors may not be able to sell their securities quickly or at the latest market price if trading in our securities is not active or if trading volume is limited. In addition, if trading volume in our securities is limited, trades of relatively small numbers of securities may have a disproportionate effect on the market price of our securities. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the near future. Our current policy is to retain all funds and any earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. If we do not pay cash dividends, our stock may be less valuable to investors because a return on their investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Anti-takeover provisions and our right to issue preferred stock could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that would make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, including a provision that our board of directors may issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, certain anti-takeover provisions of Nevada law, if and when applicable, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. We expect to be an "accelerated filer" in future years, and as a result, we could incur significant additional compliance costs. We are currently classified as a "Smaller Reporting Company" under Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Until we are classified as an "Accelerated Filer" (based upon our market capitalization reaching $75 million as of the applicable measuring date, among other requirements), we are exempt from compliance with Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("SOX"), relating to the attestation and reporting by our external auditing firm on our internal controls. In addition, we are permitted to make scaled disclosures in our periodic reports and are subject to less stringent reporting deadlines. In future years, and possibly as early as fiscal year 2015, we expect to become an Accelerated Filer and will, therefore, be subject to the auditor attestation requirements of SOX and the expanded disclosure and accelerated reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. As a result of these heightened disclosure requirements, we could incur significant additional costs, which could affect our results of operations. 29 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 