ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before investing in our common stock. If any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. On February 5, 2014, we closed a follow-on offering of 5,000,000 shares of our common stock, which included 2,000,000 shares of common stock sold by the Company and 3,000,000 shares of common stock sold by the selling stockholders. This offering is referred to in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-K as the "Follow-on Offering." 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects and may increase the risks associated with your investment. We were incorporated in 2008 and, as a result, have only a limited operating history upon which our business and future prospects may be evaluated. Although we have experienced substantial revenue growth in our limited history, we may not be able to sustain this rate of growth or even maintain our current revenue levels. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly developing and changing industries, including challenges related to recruiting, integrating and retaining qualified employees; making effective use of our limited resources; achieving market acceptance of our existing and future offerings; competing against companies with greater financial and technical resources; acquiring and retaining customers and maintaining relationships with advertising agencies; and developing new offerings. Our current operational infrastructure may require changes for us to scale our business efficiently and effectively to keep pace with demand for our solution, and achieve long-term profitability. If we fail to implement these changes on a timely basis, or if we are unable to implement them effectively or at all due to factors beyond our control or other reasons, our business may suffer. We cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in addressing these and other challenges we may face in the future. As a growing company in a rapidly evolving industry, our business prospects depend in large part on our ability to: •develop and offer a competitive technology platform and offerings that meet our advertising customers' needs as they change; •build a reputation for a superior solution and create trust and long-term relationships with advertisers and advertising agencies; •distinguish ourselves from competitors in our industry; •maintain and expand our relationships with the sources of quality inventory through which we execute our customers' advertising campaigns; •respond to evolving industry standards and government regulations that impact our business, particularly in the areas of data collection and consumer privacy; •prevent or otherwise mitigate failures or breaches of security or privacy; •expand our business internationally; and •attract, hire, integrate and retain qualified and motivated employees. If we are unable to meet one or more of these objectives or otherwise adequately address the risks and difficulties that we face, our business may suffer, our revenue may decline and we may not be able to achieve further growth or long-term profitability. If we do not manage our growth effectively, the quality of our solution or our relationships with our customers may suffer, and our operating results may be negatively affected. Our business has grown rapidly. We rely heavily on information technology, or IT, systems to manage critical functions such as advertising campaign management and operations, data storage and retrieval, revenue recognition, budgeting, forecasting, financial reporting and other administrative functions. To manage our growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our infrastructure, including our IT, financial and administrative systems and controls. We must also continue to manage our employees, operations, finances, research and development and capital investments efficiently. Our productivity and the quality of our solution may be adversely affected if we 17 Table of Contents do not integrate and train our new employees, particularly our sales and account management personnel, quickly and effectively and if we fail to appropriately coordinate across our executive, engineering, finance, human resources, legal, marketing, sales, operations and customer support teams. If we continue our rapid growth, we will incur additional expenses, and our growth may continue to place a strain on our resources, infrastructure and ability to maintain the quality of our solution. If we do not adapt to meet these evolving growth challenges, and if the current and future members of our management team do not effectively scale with our growth, the quality of our solution may suffer and our corporate culture may be harmed. Failure to manage our future growth effectively could cause our business to suffer, which, in turn, could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to make the right investment decisions in our offerings and technology platform, we may not attract and retain advertisers and advertising agencies and our revenue and results of operations may decline. We compete for advertisers, which are often represented by advertising agencies, who want to purchase digital media for advertising campaigns. Our industry is subject to rapid changes in standards, technologies, products and service offerings, as well as in advertiser demands and expectations. We continuously need to make decisions regarding which offerings and technology to invest in to meet advertiser demand and evolving industry standards and regulatory requirements. We may make wrong decisions regarding these investments. For example, we expect advertisers to award us credit, or attribution, for impressions that generate specific consumer purchases or responses using certain criteria such as last ad clicked or viewed. Our technology considers these attribution models and if new attribution models are introduced by advertisers, we may need to make changes in our technology. If new or existing competitors offer more attractive offerings, we may lose advertisers or advertisers may decrease their spending on our solution. New advertiser demands, superior competitive offerings or new industry standards could render our existing solution unattractive, unmarketable or obsolete and require us to make substantial unanticipated changes to our technology platform or business model. Our failure to adapt to a rapidly changing market or to anticipate advertiser demand could harm our business and our financial performance. We have a history of losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We incurred net losses of $(20.9) million, $(10.3) million and $(4.3) million, for the years ended 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $(44.5) million. We may not achieve profitability in the foreseeable future, if at all. Although our revenue has increased significantly in recent periods, we may not be able to sustain this revenue growth. In addition, our operating expenses have increased with our revenue growth, primarily due to substantial investments in our business and increasing our headcount by 114% during 2013. We expect our cost of revenue and operating expenses to continue to increase substantially in the foreseeable future as we continue to expand our business, including by adding sales, marketing and related support employees in existing and new territories, adding engineering employees to support continued investments in our technology platform and offerings, and adding general and administrative employees to support our growth and expansion. We may experience fluctuations in our operating results, which make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below investors' and analysts' expectations. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past. Similarly, we expect our future operating results to fluctuate for the foreseeable future due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our fluctuating results could cause our performance to fall below the expectations of investors and securities analysts, and adversely affect the price of our common stock. Because our business is changing and evolving rapidly, our historical operating results may not be 18 Table of Contents useful in predicting our future operating results. Factors that may increase the volatility of our operating results include the following: •the addition or loss of new advertisers and advertising agencies; •changes in demand and pricing for our solution; •the seasonal nature of our customers' spending on digital advertising campaigns; •changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; •and the pricing of advertising inventory or of other third-party services; •the introduction of new technologies, product or service offerings by our competitors; •changes in our customers' advertising budget allocations, agency affiliations, or marketing strategies; •changes and uncertainty in the regulatory environment for us or our advertisers; •changes in the economic prospects of our advertisers or the economy generally, which could alter current or prospective advertisers' spending priorities, or could increase the time or costs required to complete sales with advertisers; •changes in the availability of advertising inventory through real-time advertising exchanges, or in the cost to reach end consumers through digital advertising; •changes in our capital expenditures as we acquire the hardware, equipment and other assets required to support our business; and •costs related to acquisitions of people, businesses or technologies. Based upon all of the factors described above and others that we may not anticipate, including those beyond our control, we have a limited ability to forecast our future revenue, costs and expenses. As a result, our operating results may from time to time fall below our estimates or the expectations of investors and analysts. If we are unable to attract new advertising customers and sell additional offerings to our existing customers, our revenue growth will be adversely affected. To sustain or increase our revenue, we must add new advertisers and encourage existing advertisers (both of which are often represented by advertising agencies), to purchase additional offerings from us. As the digital advertising industry matures and as competitors introduce lower cost or differentiated products or services that compete with or are perceived to compete with ours, our ability to sell our solution to new and existing advertisers based on our offerings, pricing, technology platform and functionality could be impaired. Some advertisers that are repeat users of our solution tend to increase their spend over time. Conversely, some advertisers that are newer to our solution tend to spend less than, and may not return as frequently as, advertisers who have used our solution for longer periods of time. If we fail to retain or cultivate the spending of our newer, lower-spending advertisers, it will be difficult for us to sustain and grow our revenue from existing advertisers. Even with long-time advertisers, we may reach a point of saturation at which we cannot continue to grow our revenue from those advertisers because of internal limits that advertisers may place on the allocation of their advertising budgets to digital media, to particular campaigns, to a particular provider, or for other reasons not known to us. If we are unable to attract new advertisers or obtain new business from existing advertisers, our revenue growth and our business may be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents If the use of "third party cookies" is rejected by Internet users, restricted or otherwise subject to unfavorable regulation, our performance could decline and we could lose advertisers and revenue. We use "cookies" (small text files) to gather important data to help deliver our solution. These cookies are placed through an Internet browser on an Internet user's computer and correspond to a data set that we keep on our servers. Our cookies are known as "third party" cookies because we do not have a direct relationship with the Internet user. Our cookies collect anonymous information, such as when an Internet user views an ad, clicks on an ad, or visits one of our advertisers' websites. On mobile devices, we may also obtain location based information about the user's device. We use these cookies to help us achieve our advertisers' campaign goals, to help us ensure that the same Internet user does not unintentionally see the same advertisement too frequently, to report aggregate information to our advertisers regarding the performance of their advertising campaigns and to detect and prevent fraudulent activity throughout our network of inventory. We also use data from cookies to help us decide whether to bid on, and how much to bid on, an opportunity to place an advertisement in a certain location, at a given time, in front of a particular Internet user. A lack of data associated with cookies may detract from our ability to make decisions about which inventory to purchase for an advertiser's campaign, and undermine the effectiveness of our solution. Cookies may easily be deleted or blocked by Internet users. All of the most commonly used Internet browsers (including Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer, and Safari) allow Internet users to prevent cookies from being accepted by their browsers. Internet users can also delete cookies from their computers at any time. Some Internet users also download "ad blocking" software that prevents cookies from being stored on a user's computer. If more Internet users adopt these settings or delete their cookies more frequently than they currently do, our business could be harmed. In addition, the Safari browser blocks cookies by default, and other browsers may do so in the future. Unless such default settings in browsers were altered by Internet users, we would be able to set fewer of our cookies in browsers, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, companies such as Google have publicly disclosed their intention to move away from cookies to another form of persistent unique identifier, or ID, to indicate Internet users in the bidding process on advertising exchanges. If companies do not use shared IDs across the entire ecosystem, this could have a negative impact on our ability to find the same anonymous user across different web properties, and reduce the effectiveness of our solution. In addition, in the European Union, or EU, Directive 2009/136/EC, commonly referred to as the "Cookie Directive," directs EU member states to ensure that accessing information on an Internet user's computer, such as through a cookie, is allowed only if the Internet user has given his or her consent. We may not be able to develop or implement additional tools that compensate for the lack of data associated with cookies. Moreover, even if we are able to do so, such additional tools may be subject to further regulation, time consuming to develop or costly to obtain, and less effective than our current use of cookies. Potential "Do Not Track" standards or government regulation could negatively impact our business by limiting our access to the anonymous user data that informs the advertising campaigns we run, and as a result could degrade our performance for our customers. As the use of cookies has received ongoing media attention over the past three years, some government regulators and privacy advocates have suggested creating a "Do Not Track" standard that would allow Internet users to express a preference, independent of cookie settings in their web browser, not to have their website browsing recorded. All the major Internet browsers have implemented some version of a "Do Not Track" setting. Microsoft's Internet Explorer 10 includes a "Do Not Track" setting that is selected "on" by default. However, there is no definition of "tracking," no consensus regarding what message is conveyed by a "Do Not Track" setting and no industry standards regarding how to respond to a "Do Not Track" preference. It is possible that we could face competing policy 20 Table of Contents standards, or standards that put our business model at a competitive disadvantage to other companies that collect data from Internet users, standards that reduce the effectiveness of our solution, or standards that require us to make costly changes to our solution. The Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, has stated that it will pursue a legislative solution if the industry cannot agree upon a standard. The "Do-Not-Track Online Act of 2013" was introduced in the United States Senate in February 2013. If a "Do Not Track" web browser setting is adopted by many Internet users, and the standard either imposed by state or federal legislation, or agreed upon by standard setting groups, requires us to recognize a "Do Not Track" signal and prohibits us from using non-personal data as we currently do, then that could hinder growth of advertising and content production on the web generally, and limit the quality and amount of data we are able to store and use, which would cause us to change our business practices and adversely affect our business. Our international expansion subjects us to additional costs and risks and may not yield returns, including anticipated revenue growth, in the foreseeable future, and our continued expansion internationally may not be successful. Our significant investment in international expansion subjects us to many challenges associated with supporting a rapidly growing business across a multitude of cultures, customs, monetary, legal and regulatory systems and commercial infrastructures. We have a limited operating history outside of the United States, and our ability to manage our business and conduct our operations internationally requires considerable attention and resources. We began operations in the United Kingdom in 2011. Our UK subsidiary has employees in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, France, Italy, Spain and Sweden. We established subsidiaries in Germany and Canada in 2013. In addition, in 2012, we arranged a software platform licensee through which we make our solution available in Japan. We expect to significantly expand our international operations in the future. Our international expansion and the integration of international operations present challenges and risks to our business and require significant attention from our management, finance, analytics, operations, sales and engineering teams to support advertising campaigns abroad. For example, as a direct result of our relationship with our Japan licensee, we have undertaken engineering and other work to support campaigns for Japanese advertisers and localize our technology platform for language, currency and time zone, and have made substantial investments to train our Japan licensee's sales team to sell our solution in Japan. Moreover, our Japan licensee is a wholly-owned subsidiary of a large advertising agency holding company, which has other subsidiaries that may offer services that compete with us. As a result, there is a risk that conflicts of interest may arise that could reduce our ability to gain market share in the Japanese market. Compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business abroad, could interfere with our ability to offer our solution competitively to advertisers and advertising agencies in one or more countries and expose us or our employees to fines and penalties. In some cases, our advertisers might impose additional requirements on our business in efforts to comply with their interpretation of their own or our legal obligations. These requirements might differ significantly from the requirements applicable to our business in the United States and could require engineering and other costly resources to accommodate. Laws and regulations that could impact us include but are not limited to tax laws, employment laws, data privacy regulations, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials and private entities, such as the U.K. Bribery Act. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in monetary damages, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. We will likely incur significant operating expenses as a result of our international expansion, and it may not be successful. Our international business also subjects us to the impact of global and regional recessions and economic and political instability, differing regulatory requirements, costs and difficulties in managing a distributed workforce, potentially adverse tax consequences in the United States and abroad, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and restrictions on the 21 Table of Contents repatriation of funds to the United States. Our failure to manage these risks and challenges successfully could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors because competition in our industry is intense, and our competitors may offer solutions that are perceived by our customers to be more attractive than ours. These factors could result in declining revenue, or inability to grow our business. Competition for our advertisers' advertising budgets is intense. We also expect competition to increase as the barriers to enter our market are low. Increased competition may force us to charge less for our solution, or offer pricing models that are less attractive to us and decrease our margins. Our principal competitors include companies that offer demand side and data management platforms that allow advertisers to purchase inventory directly from advertising exchanges or other third parties and manage and analyze their own consumer data, traditional advertising networks and advertising agencies themselves. We also rely predominately on advertising agencies to purchase our solution on behalf of advertisers, and certain of those agencies or agency holding companies are creating competitive solutions, referred to as agency trading desks. If these agency trading desks are successful in leveraging their relationships with the advertisers we may be unable to compete even if our solution is more effective. Many agencies that we work with are also owned by large agency holding companies. For various reasons related to the agencies' own priorities or those of their holding companies, they may not recommend our solution, even though it may be more effective, and we may not have the opportunity to demonstrate our value to advertisers. We also compete with services offered through large online portals that have significant brand recognition, such as Yahoo!, Google, AOL and MSN. These large portals have substantial proprietary digital advertising inventory that may provide them with competitive advantages, including far greater access to Internet user data, and the ability to significantly influence pricing for digital advertising inventory. We also compete for a share of advertisers' total advertising budgets with online search advertising, for which we do not offer a solution, and with traditional advertising media, such as direct mail, television, radio, cable and print. Some of our competitors have also established reputations for specific services, such as retargeting with dynamic creative, for which we do not have an established market presence. Many current and potential competitors have competitive advantages relative to us, such as longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger client bases, greater access to advertising inventory on premium websites and significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources. Increased competition may result in reduced pricing for our solution, longer sales cycles or a decrease of our market share, any of which could negatively affect our revenue and future operating results and our ability to grow our business. We have been dependent on display advertising. A decrease in the use of display advertising, or our inability to further penetrate display, mobile, social and video advertising channels would harm our business, growth prospects, operating results and financial condition. Historically, our customers have predominantly used our solution for display advertising, and the substantial majority of our revenue is derived from advertisers, typically through their agencies, that use our solution for display advertising. We expect that display advertising will continue to be a significant channel used by our customers. Recently, the market for display advertising, excluding mobile, social and video, has been declining as overall display advertising growth has been driven by mobile, social and video advertising. Should our customers lose confidence in the value or effectiveness of display advertising, the demand for our display solution could decline. In addition, our failure to achieve market acceptance of our solution for mobile, social and video advertising would harm our growth prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents We have historically relied, and expect to continue to rely, on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue. The loss of any of these customers could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. A relatively small number of customers have historically accounted for a majority of our revenue. In 2013, 2012 and 2011, our top 20 customers accounted for 29%, 38% and 39% of our revenue, respectively. However, no customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenue during the respective period. While we expect this reliance to decrease over time, we expect that we will continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. As a result, if we fail to successfully attract or retain new or existing customers or if existing customers run fewer advertising campaigns with us, defer or cancel their insertion orders, or terminate their relationship with us altogether, whether through the actions of their agency representatives or otherwise, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. We do not have long-term commitments from our advertisers, and we may not be able to retain advertisers or attract new advertisers that provide us with revenue that is comparable to the revenue generated by any advertisers we may lose. Most of our advertisers do business with us by placing insertion orders for particular advertising campaigns. If we perform well on a particular campaign, then the advertiser, or most often, the advertising agency representing the advertiser, may place new insertion orders with us for additional advertising campaigns. We rarely have any commitment from an advertiser beyond the campaign governed by a particular insertion order. We use the Interactive Advertising Bureau, or IAB, standard terms and conditions, pursuant to which our insertion orders may also be canceled by advertisers or their advertising agencies prior to the completion of the campaign without penalty. As a result, our success is dependent upon our ability to outperform our competitors and win repeat business from existing advertisers, while continually expanding the number of advertisers for whom we provide services. In addition, it is relatively easy for advertisers and the advertising agencies that represent them to seek an alternative provider for their advertising campaigns because there are no significant switching costs. Agencies, with whom we do the majority of our business, often have relationships with many different providers, each of whom may be running portions of the same advertising campaign. Because we generally do not have long-term contracts, it may be difficult for us to accurately predict future revenue streams. We cannot provide assurance that our current advertisers will continue to use our solution, or that we will be able to replace departing advertisers with new advertisers that provide us with comparable revenue. If we fail to detect fraud or serve our advertisers' advertisements on undesirable websites, our reputation will suffer, which would harm our brand and reputation and negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends in part on providing our advertisers with a service that they trust, and we have contractual commitments to take reasonable measures to prevent advertisers' advertisements from appearing on undesirable websites or on certain websites that they identify. We use proprietary technology to detect click fraud and block inventory that we know or suspect to be fraudulent, including "tool bar" inventory, which is inventory that appears within an application, often called a "tool bar," and that overlays a website and displaces any advertising that would otherwise be displayed on such website. We also use third-party services in an effort to prevent our advertisers' advertisements from appearing on undesirable websites. Preventing and combating fraud requires constant vigilance, and we may not always be successful in our efforts to do so. We may serve advertising on inventory that is objectionable to our advertisers, and we may lose the trust of our advertisers, which would harm our brand and reputation and negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also purchase inventory inadvertently that proves to be unacceptable for advertising 23 Table of Contents campaigns, in which case we are responsible for the cost and cannot bill that cost to any campaign. If we buy substantial volumes of unusable inventory, this could negatively impact our results of operations. If our access to quality advertising inventory is diminished or if we fail to acquire new advertising inventory, our revenue could decline and our growth could be impeded. We must maintain a consistent supply of attractive advertising inventory, meaning the digital space on which we place advertising impressions, including websites, proprietary social networks, such as Facebook, and mobile applications. Our success depends on our ability to secure quality inventory on reasonable terms across a broad range of advertising networks and exchanges, including real time advertising exchanges, such as Google's DoubleClick Ad Exchange or AppNexus; suppliers of video and mobile inventory; and social media platforms, such as the Facebook Exchange, known as FBX. The amount, quality and cost of inventory available to us can change at any time. Our suppliers are generally not bound by long-term contracts. As a result, we cannot provide any assurance that we will have access to a consistent supply of quality inventory. Moreover, the number of competing intermediaries that purchase advertising inventory from real-time advertising exchanges continues to increase, which could put upward pressure on inventory costs. If we are unable to compete favorably for advertising inventory available on real-time advertising exchanges, or if real-time advertising exchanges decide not to make their advertising inventory available to us, we may not be able to place advertisements at competitive rates or find alternative sources of inventory with comparable traffic patterns and consumer demographics in a timely manner. Furthermore, the inventory that we access through real-time advertising exchanges may be of low quality or misrepresented to us, despite attempts by us and our suppliers to prevent fraud and conduct quality assurance checks. Suppliers control the bidding process for the inventory they supply, and their processes may not always work in our favor. For example, suppliers may place restrictions on the use of their inventory, including restrictions that prohibit the placement of advertisements on behalf of certain advertisers. Through the bidding process, we may not win the right to deliver advertising to the inventory that we select and may not be able to replace inventory that is no longer made available to us. If we are unable to maintain a consistent supply of quality inventory for any reason, our business, advertiser retention and loyalty, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. Currently, our social media offering is entirely dependent on access to Facebook's inventory through FBX. If our access to quality inventory in social media is diminished or if we fail to acquire new advertising inventory in social media, our growth could be impeded and our revenue could decline. Our social media offering is currently limited to Facebook's FBX platform, which was launched in the second half of 2012. Therefore, we currently define our social channel as advertising delivered through FBX. We have an agreement with Facebook allowing us to integrate directly with FBX to bid on advertising inventory on a real-time basis. We integrated with FBX in the fourth quarter of 2012. As a result, our ability to grow our revenue in the social channel is closely tied to the availability of inventory on FBX. If we are unable to compete favorably for advertising inventory on FBX, our social media offering may not be successful. Also, we cannot provide assurance that Facebook will continue to make its advertising inventory available to us upon reasonable terms or at all, and we may not be able to replace the FBX advertising inventory with inventory that meets our advertisers' specific goals with respect to social media. In addition, advertisers may prefer to work with companies that provide advertising on social media platforms other than FBX or that have a longer history of integration with social media platforms. If we are unable to run advertising campaigns on the FBX platform, integrate with social media platforms that may become available in the future or find alternative sources of quality social media inventory, our business could be harmed. 24 Table of Contents If mobile connected devices, their operating systems or content distribution channels, including those controlled by our competitors, develop in ways that prevent our advertising campaigns from being delivered to their users, our ability to grow our business will be impaired. Our success in the mobile channel depends upon the ability of our technology platform to integrate with mobile inventory suppliers and provide advertising for most mobile connected devices, as well as the major operating systems that run on them and the thousands of applications that are downloaded onto them. The design of mobile devices and operating systems is controlled by third parties with whom we do not have any formal relationships. These parties frequently introduce new devices, and from time to time they may introduce new operating systems or modify existing ones. Network carriers may also impact the ability to access specified content on mobile devices. If our solution were unable to work on these devices or operating systems, either because of technological constraints or because an operating system or app developer, device maker or carrier wished to impair our ability to purchase inventory and provide advertisements, our ability to generate revenue could be significantly harmed. We may invest in or acquire other businesses, which could require significant management attention, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As part of our business strategy, we may make investments in or acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies. These activities involve significant risks to our business. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates, and we may not be able to complete such acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, they may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position. Any acquisitions we complete could be viewed negatively by our advertisers, advertising agencies and investors, which could have an adverse impact on our business and the price of our common stock. In addition, if we are unsuccessful at integrating employees or technologies acquired, our financial condition and results of operations, including revenue growth, could be adversely affected. Any acquisition and subsequent integration will require significant time and resources. We have not made any acquisitions to date, and as a result, our ability as an organization to acquire and integrate other companies, products or technologies in a successful manner is unproven. We may not be able to successfully evaluate and use the acquired technology or employees, or otherwise manage the acquisition and integration processes successfully. We will be required to pay cash, incur debt and/or issue equity securities to pay for any such acquisition, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition and the value of our common stock. Our use of cash to pay for acquisitions would limit other potential uses of our cash, including investments in our sales and marketing and product development organizations, and in infrastructure to support scalability. The issuance or sale of equity or convertible debt securities to finance any such acquisitions would result in dilution to our stockholders and could negatively impact earnings per share. If we incur debt, it would result in increased fixed obligations and could also impose covenants or other restrictions that could impede our ability to manage our operations. Anticipated and unanticipated charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions may adversely affect our results of operations. Under business combination accounting standards we recognize the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed, generally at their acquisition date fair values and separately from goodwill. Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. After we complete an acquisition, a number of factors could result in material charges, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including but not limited to costs incurred to integrate employees such as employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses; amortization, impairment or reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets; amortization or impairment of goodwill; costs to maintain certain duplicative pre-merger activities for an extended period of time or to maintain these activities for a period of time that is longer than we had anticipated; and charges to our operating results due to the 25 Table of Contents expensing of certain stock awards assumed in an acquisition. Substantially all of these costs will be accounted for as expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those costs are incurred. Additional risks related to investments and acquisitions include but are not limited to the following: •The need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company in an acquired company that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls, procedures and policies; •Unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting or tax treatment as a result of an acquired company's practices; •The need to integrate an acquired company's accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and timely reporting; •The possibility of higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products, in general and administrative functions that support new business models, or in compliance with associated regulations that are more complicated than we had anticipated; •Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company or business into our organization; •Retaining key employees and maintaining the key business and customer relationships of the businesses we acquire; •The possibility that the combined company would not achieve the expected benefits, including any anticipated operating and product synergies, of the acquisition as quickly as anticipated if at all; •The possibility that we will not discover important facts during due diligence for an acquisition that could have a material adverse impact on the value of the businesses we acquire and subject us to unexpected claims and liabilities, regulatory exposure and/or other expenses; •Litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risks as a result of, an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers or other third parties; •Significant accounting charges resulting from the completion and integration of a sizable acquisition and increased capital expenditures; •Significant acquisition-related accounting adjustments that may cause reported revenue and profits of the combined company to be lower than the sum of their stand-alone revenue and profits; •The possibility that the costs of, or operational difficulties arising from, an acquisition would be greater than anticipated; •To the extent that we engage in strategic transactions outside of the United States, we face additional risks, including risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; and •The possibility that a change of control of a company we acquire triggers a termination of contractual or intellectual property rights important to the operation of its business. Any of the foregoing factors could harm our financial condition or prevent us from achieving improvements in our financial condition and operating performance that could have otherwise been 26 Table of Contents achieved by us on a stand-alone basis. Our stockholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or investments. Our sales and marketing efforts require significant investment, which may not yield returns in the foreseeable future, if at all. We have invested significant resources in our sales and marketing teams to educate potential and prospective advertisers and advertising agencies about the value of our solution. Real-time bidding through real-time advertising exchanges is still a small part of the overall display, mobile, social and video digital advertising markets. We often spend substantial time and resources explaining how our solution can optimize advertising campaigns in real time, and responding to requests for proposals from potential advertisers and their advertising agencies, including developing material specific to the needs of such potential advertisers. Our business depends in part upon advertisers' confidence, and the confidence of the advertising agencies that represent those advertisers, that our use of real-time advertising exchanges to purchase inventory is superior to other methods of purchasing digital advertising. We may not be successful in attracting new advertisers despite our investment in our business development, sales and marketing organizations. If we do not effectively grow and train our sales team, we may be unable to add new customers or increase sales to our existing customers, and our business would be adversely affected. We continue to be substantially dependent on our sales team to obtain new customers and to drive sales from our existing customers. We believe that there is significant competition for sales personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training, integrating and retaining sufficient numbers of sales personnel to support our growth. Our current sales team is primarily trained and experienced in selling to advertising agencies, which often control an advertiser's budget. If more of our business shifts to direct relationships with brand advertisers, we may not have an adequately trained sales team to support that shift and to sell products effectively to those advertisers. New hires require significant training and it may take significant time before they achieve full productivity. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become productive as quickly as we expect, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the markets where we do business or plan to do business. In addition, as we continue to grow rapidly, a large percentage of our sales team will be new to the company and our solution. If we are unable to hire and train sufficient numbers of effective sales personnel, or the sales personnel are not successful in obtaining new customers or increasing sales to our existing customer base, our business would be adversely affected. Our growth depends, in part, on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties, including ready access to hardware in key locations to facilitate the delivery of our solution and reliable management of Internet traffic. We anticipate that we will continue to depend on various third-party relationships in order to grow our business. We continue to pursue additional relationships with third parties, such as technology and content providers, real-time advertising exchanges, market research companies, co-location facilities and other strategic partners. Identifying, negotiating and documenting relationships with third parties requires significant time and resources as does integrating third-party data and services. Our agreements with channel partners and providers of technology, computer hardware, co-location facilities, content and consulting services and real-time advertising exchanges are typically non-exclusive, do not prohibit them from working with our competitors or from offering competing services and do not typically have minimum purchase commitments. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to third parties to favor their products or services over ours or to otherwise prevent or reduce purchases of our solution. In addition, these third parties may not perform as expected under 27 Table of Contents our agreements with them, and we may have disagreements or disputes with such third parties, which could negatively affect our brand and reputation. In particular, our continued growth depends on our ability to source computer hardware, including servers built to our specifications, and the ability to locate those servers and related hardware in co-location facilities in the most desirable locations to facilitate the timely delivery of our services. Disruptions in the services provided at co-location facilities that we rely upon can degrade the level of services that we can provide, which could harm our business. We also rely on our integration with many third-party technology providers to execute our business on a daily basis. We must efficiently direct a large amount of network traffic to and from our servers to consider tens of billions of bid requests per day, and each bid typically must take place in approximately 100 milliseconds. We rely on a third-party domain name service, or DNS, to direct traffic to our closest data center for efficient processing. If our DNS provider experiences disruptions or performance problems, this could result in inefficient balancing of traffic across our servers as well as impairing or preventing web browser connectivity to our site, which could harm our business. Our solution relies on third-party open source software components, and failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open source software licenses could restrict our ability to sell our solution. Our platform, including our computational infrastructure, relies on software licensed to us by third-party authors under "open source" licenses. The use of open source software may entail greater risks than the use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. Some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software we use. If we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. This would allow our competitors to create similar solutions with less development effort and time and ultimately put us at a competitive disadvantage. Although we monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by United States courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our services. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that our processes for controlling our use of open source software will be effective. If we are held to have breached the terms of an open source software license, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue operating our platform on terms that are not economically feasible, to re-engineer our platform or the supporting computational infrastructure to discontinue use of certain code, or to make generally available, in source code form, portions of our proprietary code, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with industry self-regulation could harm our brand, reputation and business. We have committed to complying with the Network Advertising Initiative's Code of Conduct and the Digital Advertising Alliance's Self-Regulatory Principles for Online Behavioral Advertising in the United States, as well as similar self-regulatory principles in Europe adopted by the Interactive Advertising Bureau—Europe and the European Digital Advertising Alliance. Our efforts to comply with these principles include offering Internet users notice and transparency when advertising is served to them based, in part, on web browsing data recorded by cookies. We also offer Internet users the ability to opt out of receiving interest-based advertisements based on a cookie we place. However, we have made mistakes in our implementation of these guidelines in the past, and if we make mistakes in the future, or our opt out mechanisms fail to work as designed, or if Internet users misunderstand our 28 Table of Contents technology or our commitments with respect to these principles, we could be subject to negative publicity, government investigation, government or private litigation, or investigation by self-regulatory bodies or other accountability groups. Any such action against us could be costly and time consuming, require us to change our business practices, cause us to divert management's attention and our resources and be damaging to our reputation and our business. If we fail to maintain adequate security and supporting infrastructure as we scale our systems, we may experience outages and disruptions of our services which could harm our brand and reputation and negatively impact our revenue and results of operations. As we grow our business, we expect to continue to invest in technology services, hardware and software, including data centers, network services, storage and database technologies. Creating the appropriate support for our technology platform, including Big Data and our computational infrastructure, is expensive and complex, and our execution could result in inefficiencies or operational failures and increased vulnerability to cyber-attacks, which, in turn, could diminish the quality of our services and our performance for advertisers. Cyber-attacks could include denial-of-service attacks impacting service availability (including the ability to deliver ads) and reliability; the exploitation of software vulnerabilities in Internet facing applications; social engineering of system administrators (tricking company employees into releasing control of their systems to a hacker); or the introduction of computer viruses or malware into our systems with a view to steal confidential or proprietary data. Cyber-attacks of increasing sophistication may be difficult to detect and could result in the theft of our intellectual property and our data or our advertisers' data. In addition, we are vulnerable to unintentional errors as well as malicious actions by persons with authorized access to our systems that exceed the scope of their access rights, or unintentionally or intentionally alter parameters or otherwise interfere with the intended operations of our platform. The steps we take to increase the reliability, integrity and security of our systems as they scale may be expensive and may not prevent system failures or unintended vulnerabilities resulting from the increasing number of persons with access to our systems, complex interactions within our technology platform and the increasing number of connections with third party partners and vendors' technology. Operational errors or failures or successful cyber-attacks could result in damage to our reputation and loss of current and new advertisers and other business partners which could harm our business. In addition, we could be adversely impacted by outages and disruptions in the online platforms of our key business partners, such as the real-time advertising exchanges, who we rely upon for access to inventory. Errors or failures in our software and systems could adversely affect our operating results and growth prospects. We depend upon the sustained and uninterrupted performance of our technology platform to operate over 1,000 campaigns at any given time; manage our inventory supply; bid on inventory for each campaign; serve or direct a third party to serve advertising; collect, process and interpret data to optimize campaign performance in real time; and provide billing information to our financial systems. If our technology platform cannot scale to meet demand, or if there are errors in our execution of any of these functions on our platform, then our business could be harmed. Because our software is complex, undetected errors and failures may occur, especially when new versions or updates are made. We do not have the capability to test new releases or updates to our code on a small subset of campaigns, which means that bugs or errors in code could impact all campaigns on our platform. Despite testing by us, errors or bugs in our software have in the past, and may in the future, not be found until the software is in our live operating environment. For example, we have experienced failures in our bidding system to recognize or respond to budget restrictions for campaigns, resulting in overspending on media, and we may in the future have failures in our systems that cause us to buy more media than our advertisers are contractually obligated to pay for, which could be costly and harm our operating results. Errors or failures in our software could also result in negative publicity, damage 29 Table of Contents to our brand and reputation, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our solution, increased costs or loss of revenue, loss of competitive position or claims by advertisers for losses sustained by them. In such an event, we may be required or choose to expend additional resources to help mitigate any problems resulting from errors in our software. We may make errors in the measurement of our campaigns causing discrepancies with our advertisers' measurements leading to a lack in confidence with us or, on occasion, the need for advertiser "make-goods," the standard credits given to advertisers for campaigns that have not been delivered properly. Alleviating problems resulting from errors in our software could require significant expenditures of capital and other resources and could cause interruptions, delays or the cessation of our business, any of which would adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and growth prospects. We may require additional capital to support growth, and such capital might not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. This could hamper our growth and adversely affect our business. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new features or enhance our platform, improve our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in public or private equity, equity-linked or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing that we secure in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, including the ability to pay dividends. This may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business could be adversely affected. Our future success depends on the continuing efforts of our key employees, including our three founders, and on our ability to hire, train, motivate and retain additional employees, including key employees. Our future success depends heavily upon the continuing services of our key employees, including our three founders, George John, our Chief Executive Officer; Richard Frankel, our President; and Abhinav Gupta, our Vice President, Engineering, and on our ability to attract and retain members of our management team and other highly skilled employees, including software engineers, analytics and operations employees and sales professionals. The market for talent in our key areas of operations, including California, New York, Chicago and London, is intensely competitive. Our engineering group is based in Redwood City, California, and we face significant competition for talent from large technology companies such as Google, Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter and Yahoo!. These companies may provide more generous benefits, more diverse opportunities and better chances for career advancement than we do. Some of these advantages may be more appealing to high-quality candidates than those we have to offer. None of our founders or other key employees has an employment agreement for a specific term, and any of our employees may terminate his or her employment with us at any time. New employees often require significant training and, in many cases, take significant time before they achieve full productivity. As a result, we may incur significant costs to attract and retain employees, including significant expenditures related to salaries and benefits and compensation expenses related to equity awards, and we may lose new employees to our competitors or other companies before we realize the benefit of our investment in recruiting and training them. Moreover, new employees may not be or become as productive as we expect, as we may face challenges in 30 Table of Contents adequately or appropriately integrating them into our workforce and culture. In addition, as we move into new geographies, we will need to attract and recruit skilled employees in those areas. We have little experience with recruiting in geographies outside of the United States, and may face additional challenges in attracting, integrating and retaining international employees. Even if we are successful in hiring qualified new employees, we may be subject to allegations that we have improperly solicited such employees while they remained employed by our competitors, that such employees have improperly solicited other colleagues of theirs employed by the same competitors or that such employees have divulged proprietary or other confidential information to us in violation of their agreements with such competitors. If we are unable to attract, integrate and retain suitably qualified individuals, our business, financial position and results of operations would be harmed. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success. If we cannot maintain it as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity and teamwork fostered by our culture, and our business could be harmed. We are undergoing rapid growth. We had approximately 619 employees (532 in the United States and 87 employees overseas), compared with approximately 289 employees (254 and 35 employees, respectively), as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. We intend to further expand our overall headcount and operations both domestically and internationally, and we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to do so while effectively maintaining our corporate culture. We believe our corporate culture has been a critical component of our success as we believe it fosters innovation, teamwork, passion for customers and focus on execution, while facilitating knowledge sharing across our organization. As we grow and change, we may find it difficult to preserve our corporate culture, which could reduce our ability to innovate and operate effectively. In turn, the failure to preserve our culture could negatively affect our ability to attract, recruit, integrate and retain employees, continue to perform at current levels and effectively execute our business strategy. Our historical revenue growth has masked seasonal fluctuations in advertising activity. As growth declines or seasonal patterns become more pronounced, seasonality could have a material impact on our cash flows and operating results. Our revenue, cash flow from operations, operating results and other key operating and performance metrics may vary from quarter to quarter due to the seasonal nature of our advertisers' spending on digital advertising campaigns. For example, advertisers tend to devote more of their advertising budgets to the fourth calendar quarter to coincide with consumer holiday spending. Moreover, advertising inventory in the fourth quarter may be more expensive due to increased demand for advertising inventory. Our historical revenue growth has masked the impact of seasonality, but if our growth rate declines or seasonal spending becomes more pronounced, seasonality could have a material impact on our revenue, cash flow, operating results and other key operating and performance metrics from period to period. We rely predominately on advertising agencies to purchase our solution on behalf of advertisers, and we incur the cost of an advertising campaign before we bill for services. Such agencies may have or develop high-risk credit profiles, which may result in credit risk to us. We must consider the effect of credit risk in transactions with agencies or other third parties and advertisers. A substantial portion of our business is sourced through advertising agencies, and we contract with these agencies as an agent for a disclosed principal, which is the advertiser. Typically, the advertising agency pays for our services once it has received payment from the advertiser for our services. Our contracts typically provide that if the advertiser does not pay the agency, the agency is not liable to us, and we must seek payment solely from the advertiser. Contracting with these agencies, which in certain cases have or may develop high-risk credit profiles, subjects us to greater credit risk than where we contract with advertisers directly. This credit risk may vary depending on the nature of 31 Table of Contents an advertising agency's aggregated advertiser base. In the quarter ended September 30, 2013, one of the agencies with which we conducted business filed for bankruptcy, which resulted in bad debt expense in the period. There can be no assurances that we will not experience additional bad debt expense in the future. Any such write-offs for bad debt could have a materially negative effect on our results of operations for the periods in which the write-offs occur. Even if we are not paid, we are still obligated to pay for the media we have purchased for the advertising campaign, and as a consequence, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies could result in currency transaction losses that negatively impact our financial results. We currently have foreign sales denominated in British pounds, euros, Japanese yen and Canadian dollars and may, in the future, have sales denominated in the currencies of additional countries in which we establish or have established sales offices. In addition, we incur a portion of our operating expenses in British pounds, euros, Canadian dollars and Hong Kong dollars. We expect international sales to become an increasingly important part of our business. Any fluctuation in the exchange rates of these foreign currencies could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have not previously engaged in foreign currency hedging. If we decide to hedge our foreign currency exposure, we may not be able to hedge effectively due to lack of experience, unreasonable costs or illiquid markets. In addition, those activities may be limited in the protection they provide us from foreign currency fluctuations and can themselves result in losses. Legislation and regulation of online businesses, including privacy and data protection regimes, could create unexpected costs, subject us to enforcement actions for compliance failures, or cause us to change our technology platform or business model, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Government regulation could increase the costs of doing business online. U.S. and foreign governments have enacted or are considering legislation related to online advertising and we expect to see an increase in legislation and regulation related to advertising online, the use of geo-location data to inform advertising, the collection and use of anonymous Internet user data and unique device identifiers, such as IP address or unique mobile device identifiers, and other data protection and privacy regulation. Recent revelations about bulk online data collection by the National Security Agency, and news articles suggesting that the National Security Agency may gather data from cookies placed by Internet advertisers to deliver interest based advertising, may further interest governments in legislation regulating data collection by commercial entities, such as advertisers and publishers and technology companies that serve the advertising industry. Such legislation could affect the costs of doing business online, and could reduce the demand for our solution or otherwise harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, a wide variety of provincial, state, national and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal data. While we have not collected data that is traditionally considered personal data, such as name, email address, address, phone numbers, social security numbers, credit card numbers, financial or health data, we typically do collect and store IP addresses and other device identifiers, that are or may be considered personal data in some jurisdictions or otherwise may be the subject of legislation or regulation. Evolving and changing definitions of personal data, within the EU, the United States and elsewhere, especially relating to classification of IP addresses, machine or device identifiers, location data and other information, have in the past and could cause us in the future, to change our business practices, or limit or inhibit our ability to operate or expand our business. Data protection and privacy-related laws and regulations are evolving and could result in ever-increasing regulatory and public scrutiny and escalating levels of enforcement and sanctions. While we take measures to protect the security of information that we collect, use and disclose in the operation of our business, and to offer certain privacy protections with respect to such information, such measures may not always be effective. In addition, while we take steps to avoid 32 Table of Contents collecting personally identifiable information about consumers, we may inadvertently receive this information from advertisers or advertising agencies or through the process of delivering advertising. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or to protect personal data, could result in enforcement action against us, including fines, imprisonment of our officers and public censure, claims for damages by consumers and other affected individuals, damage to our reputation and loss of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, could harm our reputation and inhibit adoption of our solution by current and future advertisers and advertising agencies. Our proprietary rights may be difficult to enforce. This could enable others to copy or use aspects of our solution without compensating us, which could erode our competitive advantages and harm our business. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect proprietary methods and technologies that we develop under the intellectual property laws of the United States, so that we can prevent others from using our inventions and proprietary information. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology, and our business could be adversely affected. We rely on trademark, copyright, trade secret and patent laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary methods and technologies. Our patent strategy is still in its early stages and while we have a small number of pending patent applications, valid patents may not be issued from our pending applications, and the claims eventually allowed on any patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or offerings and services. Any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and any rights granted under these patents may not actually provide adequate defensive protection or competitive advantages to us. Additionally, the process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. Additional uncertainty may result from changes to intellectual property legislation enacted in the United States, including the recent America Invents Act, and other national governments and from interpretations of the intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries by applicable courts and agencies. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to obtain adequate patent protection, or to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our technology or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We generally enter into confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and advertisers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. However, we cannot provide assurance that any steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology and proprietary information. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those of the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of our proprietary rights in such countries may be inadequate. From time to time, legal action by us may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of limited resources and could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights (including aspects of our technology platform) we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who have not incurred the same level of expense, time and effort to create and protect their intellectual property. 33 Table of Contents We may be subject to intellectual property rights claims by third parties, which are extremely costly to defend, could require us to pay significant damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies. Third parties may assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights in proprietary technology against us or against our advertisers for which we may be liable or have an indemnification obligation. Any claim of infringement by a third party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim and could distract our management from operating our business. Although third parties may offer a license to their technology, the terms of any offered license may not be acceptable and the failure to obtain a license or the costs associated with any license could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to be materially and adversely affected. In addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and ultimately may not be successful. Furthermore, a successful claimant could secure a judgment or we may agree to a settlement that prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services or that requires us to pay substantial damages, including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed such claimant's patents or copyrights, royalties or other fees. Any of these events could seriously harm our business financial condition and results of operations. Legal claims against us resulting from the actions of our advertisers could damage our reputation and be costly to defend. We receive representations from advertisers that the content of the advertising that we place on their behalf is lawful. We also rely on representations from our advertisers that they maintain adequate privacy policies that allow us to place pixels on their websites and collect data from users that visit those websites to aid in delivering our solution. However, we do not independently verify whether we are permitted to deliver advertising to our advertisers' Internet users or that the content of the advertisements we deliver is legally permitted. If any of our advertisers' representations are untrue and our advertisers do not abide by foreign, federal, state or local laws or regulations governing their content or privacy practices, we could become subject to legal claims against us, we could be exposed to potential liability (for which we may or may not be indemnified by our customers), and our reputation could be damaged. Indemnity provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement and other losses. Our agreements with advertisers, advertising agencies, and other third parties may include indemnification provisions under which we agree to indemnify them for losses suffered or incurred as a result of claims of intellectual property infringement, damages caused by us to property or persons, or other liabilities relating to or arising from our products, services, or other contractual obligations. The term of these indemnity provisions generally survives termination or expiration of the applicable agreement. Large indemnity payments would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls in the past, and if we do not continue to develop effective internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and our business could suffer as a result. When we are no longer an "emerging growth company," as defined in the JOBS Act, we will be required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We will need to 34 Table of Contents disclose any material weaknesses (as defined by SEC rules) in our internal controls over financial reporting that are identified by our management, as well as provide a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an opinion on our internal controls over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting until our first annual report filed with the SEC following the later of (i) the date we are deemed to be an "accelerated filer" or a "large accelerated filer," each as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, or (ii) the date we are no longer an emerging growth company. In connection with the audit of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010, we identified certain material weaknesses in our internal controls resulting from a lack of qualified personnel within our accounting function that possessed an appropriate level of expertise to perform certain functions. We have since remediated these material weaknesses. We are continuing to develop our internal controls, processes and reporting systems to comply with these requirements, by, among other things, hiring qualified personnel with expertise to perform specific functions, implementing software systems to manage our revenue and expenses and to allow us to budget and undertake multi-year financial planning and analyses. This process has been and will be time-consuming, costly and complicated. We may not be successful in implementing these systems or in developing other internal controls, which could undermine our ability to provide accurate, timely and reliable reports on our financial and operating results. For example, in connection with filing a registration statement for our initial public offering, errors were identified in the unaudited consolidated statement of cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2012. We have since corrected these errors and concluded that such corrections were immaterial. However, if we identify additional errors that result in material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting and we do not detect errors on a timely basis, and our financial statements could be materially misstated. If we identify new material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, if we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, if we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. As a result of any such failures, we could also become subject to investigations by the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities, and become subject to lawsuits by stockholders, which could harm our reputation and financial condition or divert financial and management resources from our core business. Economic downturns and political and market conditions beyond our control could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends on the overall demand for advertising and on the economic health of our current and prospective advertisers. Economic downturns or instability in political or market conditions may cause current or new advertisers to reduce their advertising budgets. Adverse economic conditions and general uncertainty about economic recovery are likely to affect our business prospects. In particular, uncertainty regarding the budget crisis in the United States may cause general business conditions in the United States and elsewhere to deteriorate or become volatile, which could cause advertisers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our solution, This could expose us to increased credit risk on advertiser orders, which, in turn, could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, concerns over the sovereign debt situation in certain countries in the EU as well as continued geopolitical turmoil in many parts of the world have, and may continue to, put pressure on global economic conditions, which could lead to reduced spending on advertising. 35 Table of Contents If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our operating results could fall below the expectations of investors and securities analysts, which could result in a decline in our stock price. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances (as described in the section entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"), the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities, equity, revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our operating results could be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions. If, as a result, our operating results fall below the expectations of investors and securities analysts, our stock price could decline. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, allowance for doubtful accounts, accounting for internal use software and income taxes. Our loan agreement contains operating and financial covenants that restrict our business and financing activities. Borrowings under our loan agreement with certain lenders and Comerica Bank, or Comerica, as agent for the lenders, are secured by substantially all of our assets, including our intellectual property. Our loan agreement also restricts our ability to, among other things: •dispose of or sell our assets; •make material changes in our business or management; •consolidate or merge with other entities; •incur additional indebtedness; •create liens on our assets; •pay dividends; •make investments; •enter into transactions with affiliates; and •pay off or redeem subordinated indebtedness. These restrictions are subject to certain exceptions. In addition, our loan agreement requires us to comply with a minimum EBITDA covenant and maintain a minimum liquidity ratio. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in the loan agreement, as well as any future financing agreements that we may enter into, could restrict our ability to finance our operations and to engage in, expand or otherwise pursue business activities and strategies that we or our stockholders may consider beneficial. We have failed to comply with similar covenants in the past. For example, as of December 31, 2012 and September 30, 2013, we were not in compliance with certain financial and non-financial covenants in prior secured loan and security agreements, including a covenant related to permitted indebtedness for a corporate credit card account balance. Although we have been able to obtain a waiver for each such covenant violation in the past, there is no guarantee that our lender will waive such violations in the future. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and future breaches of any of these covenants could result in a default under the loan agreement. Future defaults, if not waived, could cause all of the outstanding indebtedness under our loan agreement to become immediately due and payable and would permit the 36 Table of Contents lenders to terminate all commitments to extend further credit and permit Comerica, on behalf of the lenders, to proceed against the collateral in which we granted Comerica a security interest. If we do not have or are unable to generate sufficient cash available to repay our debt obligations when they become due and payable, either upon maturity or in the event of a default, we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all. This could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and our ability to operate and continue our business as a going concern. Our ability to use our net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations, which could subject our business to higher tax liability. We may be limited in the portion of net operating loss carry-forwards that we can use in the future to offset taxable income for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes. At December 31, 2013, we had U.S. federal net operating loss carry-forwards, or NOLs, of $43.9 million and state NOLs of $18.4 million. A lack of future taxable income would adversely affect our ability to utilize these NOLs. In addition, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, a corporation that undergoes an "ownership change" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its NOLs to offset future taxable income. We believe that we experienced an ownership change under Section 382 of the Code in prior years that may limit our ability to utilize a portion of the NOLs. As a result of the ownership change, we estimate that the utilization of U.S. federal NOLs of $11.7 million and state NOLs of $10.5 million are subject to annual limitations under Section 382. In addition, future changes in our stock ownership could result in additional ownership changes under Section 382 of the Code. Our NOLs may also be impaired under similar provisions of state law. We have recorded a full valuation allowance related to our NOLs and other net deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty of the ultimate realization of the future benefits of those assets. Our NOLs may expire unutilized or underutilized, which would prevent us from offsetting future taxable income. The forecasts of market growth included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may prove to be inaccurate, and even if the market in which we compete achieves the forecasted growth, we cannot assure you our business will grow at similar rates, if at all. Growth forecasts are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates that may not prove to be accurate. The forecasts in this Annual Report on Form 10-K relating to the expected growth in the digital advertising and real-time buying markets may prove to be inaccurate. For more information regarding the forecasts of market growth included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, see the "Business" section entitled "—Overview" and "—Our Market Opportunity". We have broad discretion in the use of net proceeds that we received in the Follow-on Offering, and if we do not use those proceeds effectively, your investment could be harmed. Our management will have broad discretion over the specific use of the net proceeds that we received in the Follow-on Offering and might not be able to obtain a significant return, if any, on investment of these net proceeds. Stockholders will need to rely upon the judgment of our management with respect to the use of proceeds. If we do not invest and use the net proceeds that we received in the Follow-on Offering and our initial public offering effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Our liquidity could be adversely impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. As of December 31, 2013, we had $113.9 million in cash and cash equivalents. At any point in time, we have funds in our operating accounts that are with third party financial institutions that exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, insurance limits. These cash balances could be impacted if the underlying financial institutions fail or become subject to other adverse conditions in 37 Table of Contents the financial markets. Portions of the proceeds from our initial public offering are invested in our operating accounts with third party financial institutions in amounts that exceed FDIC insurance limits. Our business is subject to the risk of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods and other catastrophic events, and to other interruptions due to natural or human causes. We maintain servers at co-location facilities in California, New Jersey, Nevada, Virginia, Germany, the Netherlands and Hong Kong that we use to deliver advertising campaigns for our advertisers, and expect to add other data centers at co-location facilities in the future. Any of our facilities may be harmed or rendered inoperable by natural or man-made disasters, including earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, fires, floods, nuclear disasters, war, acts of terrorism, vandalism or other criminal activities, infectious disease outbreaks and power outages, any of which could render it difficult or impossible for us to operate our business for some period of time. For example, in October 2012, Hurricane Sandy caused our former data center in New York to cease operations because of storm damage, which caused us to divert online traffic to other facilities. Our corporate headquarters and the co-location facility where we maintain data used in our business operations are both located in the San Francisco Bay Area, a region known for seismic activity. If we were to lose the data stored in our California co-location facility, it could take several weeks, if not months, to recreate this data from multiple sources, which could result in significant negative impact on our business operations, and potential damage to our advertiser and advertising agency relationships. Our facilities would likely be costly to repair or replace, and any such efforts would likely require substantial time. Any disruptions in our operations could negatively impact our business and results of operations, and harm our reputation. In addition, we may not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate for the losses that may occur. Any such losses or damages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock The price of our common stock has been volatile and the value of your investment could decline. Technology stocks have historically experienced high levels of volatility. The trading price of our common stock has, and is likely going to continue to fluctuate substantially. Since our initial public offering in September 2013, our common stock has ranged in price from $37.81 to $71.89. These fluctuations could cause you to lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include the following: •announcements of financial results, new offerings, products, services or technologies, commercial relationships, acquisitions or other events by us, our competitors or others in our industry sector; •price and volume fluctuations in the overall U.S. and foreign stock markets from time to time; •significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of technology companies in general and of companies in the digital advertising industry in particular; •fluctuations in the trading volume of our shares or the size of our public float; •actual or anticipated changes or fluctuations in our results of operations; •whether our results of operations meet the expectations of investors or securities analysts; •actual or anticipated changes in the expectations of investors or securities analysts; •litigation involving us, our industry, or both; •regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries, or both; •general economic conditions and trends; 38 Table of Contents •major catastrophic events; •lockup releases and subsequent sales of large blocks of our common stock; •departures of key employees; or •an adverse impact on the company from any of the other risks cited herein. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market, in general, experience a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, results of operations or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. If our stock price continues to be volatile, we may become the target of securities litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources from our business. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets, including when the "lock-up" or "market standoff" period ends, or the perception that sales might occur, could reduce the price of our common stock and may dilute your voting power and your ownership interest in us. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and may make it more difficult for you to sell your common stock at a time and price that you deem appropriate. Based on the total number of outstanding shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2013, and assuming the issuance of 233,048 shares of common stock up the exercise of vested stock options held by certain selling stockholders, upon completion of the Follow-on Offering, there were 35,059,040 shares of common stock outstanding. All of the shares of common stock sold in the Follow-on Offering will be freely tradable without restrictions or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, except for any shares held by our "affiliates" as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Subject to certain exceptions, we and all of our directors and officers and substantially all of our stockholders have agreed not to offer, sell or agree to sell, directly or indirectly, any shares of common stock without the permission of the representatives of the underwriters for a period of 180 days from the date of our initial public offering. In addition, the shares of common stock purchased by The Private Equity Group of J.P. Morgan Investment Management Inc., on behalf of an advised client account, are subject to lock-up restrictions and may not be sold for a period of 180 days from the date of the initial public offering. Subject to certain exceptions, we and the selling stockholders in the Follow-on Offering have agreed not to offer, sell or agree to sell, directly or indirectly, any shares of common stock without the permission of the representatives of the underwriters for a period of 90 days from the date of the Follow-on Offering. When the applicable lock-up periods expire, we and our locked-up security holders will be able to sell shares in the public market. In addition, the underwriters may, in their sole discretion, release all or some portion of the shares subject to lock-up agreements prior to the expiration of the lock-up period, as they did following our fourth quarter and fiscal 2013 earnings announcement in February 2014. The underwriters released the initial public offering lock-up with respect to 10% of employees' vested holdings as of February 25, 2014 (excluding employees who sold shares in the Follow-on Offering). Sales of a substantial number of such shares upon expiration of the lock-up, or the perception that such sales may occur, or another early release of the lock-up, could cause our share 39 Table of Contents price to fall or make it more difficult for you to sell your common stock at a time and price that you deem appropriate. Based on shares outstanding as of December 31, 2013, holders of up to approximately 22,725,962 shares, or approximately 65%, of our common stock after the Follow-on Offering, have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the sale of their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. We have also registered the offer and sale of all shares of common stock that we may issue under our equity compensation plans. We may issue our shares of common stock or securities convertible into our common stock from time to time in connection with a financing, acquisition, investments or otherwise. Any such issuance could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. The concentration of our capital stock ownership with insiders could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. Our directors, executive officers and all of our stockholders who own greater than 5% of our outstanding common stock, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 57% of the outstanding shares of our common stock after the Follow-on Offering, based on the number of shares outstanding as of December 31, 2013. As a result, these stockholders will be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a manner that is adverse to your interests. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of deterring, delaying or preventing a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert our management's attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, and are required to comply with the applicable requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs, made some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increased demand on our systems and resources. Among other things, the Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and results of operations and maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required. As a result, management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business and results of operations. Although we have already hired additional employees to comply with these requirements, we may need to hire even more employees in the future, which will increase our costs and expenses. We are an emerging growth company, and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. For so long as we remain an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various requirements that are applicable to public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including not being required to comply with the independent auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure 40 Table of Contents obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may take advantage of these exemptions for so long as we are an emerging growth company, which could be as long as five years following the completion of our IPO. Investors may find our common stock less attractive because we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock, and our stock price may be more volatile and may decline. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. However, we chose to "opt out" of the extended transition period, and as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research reports about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will, to some extent, depend on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us should downgrade our shares or change their opinion of our business prospects, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock. We have an accumulated deficit in our stockholders' equity and have not generated income through 2013. In addition, our credit facility contains restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. We intend to retain any earnings to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the future. As a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases. Our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage takeover attempts and lead to management entrenchment. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it difficult for stockholders to elect directors that are not nominated by the current members of our board of directors or take other corporate actions, including effecting changes in our management. These provisions include: •a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which could delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors; •the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquiror; •the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of our board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; 41 Table of Contents •a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders; •the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of our board of directors, our president, our secretary, or a majority vote of our board of directors, which could delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; •the requirement for the affirmative vote of holders of at least 662/3% of the voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of the voting stock, voting together as a single class, to amend the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation relating to the management of our business or our amended and restated bylaws, which may inhibit the ability of an acquiror to effect such amendments to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt; •the ability of our board of directors, by majority vote, to amend our amended and restated bylaws, which may allow our board of directors to take additional actions to prevent an unsolicited takeover and inhibit the ability of an acquiror to amend our amended and restated bylaws to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt; and •advance notice procedures with which stockholders must comply to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a certain period of time. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 