D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business Our future growth and profitability depend on the demand for photovoltaic products and the development of photovoltaic technologies. The solar industry is at a relatively early stage of development, and the extent of acceptance of photovoltaic products is uncertain. The photovoltaic industry does not have data as far back as the semiconductor industry or other more established industries, for which trends can be assessed more reliably from data gathered over a longer period of time. Demand for photovoltaic products may not develop or may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipate. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of photovoltaic technology and demand for photovoltaic products, including: • decreases in government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the photovoltaic industry; 6 Table of Contents • relative cost-effectiveness, performance and reliability of photovoltaic products compared to conventional and other renewable energy sources and products; • success of other alternative energy sources, such as wind power, hydroelectric power and biofuel; • fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional and other renewable energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels; • the ability of photovoltaic product manufacturers to finance their business operations, expansions and other capital expenditures; • capital expenditures by end users of photovoltaic products, which tend to decrease when the economy slows down; and • deregulation or other regulatory actions affecting the electric power industry and the broader energy industry. In the event that demand for solar products does not expand as we expect or photovoltaic technologies do not develop in a manner that increases the demand for polysilicon, our future growth and profitability will be materially and adversely affected. Global supply for polysilicon has exceeded and may continue to exceed demand, which could cause polysilicon prices to decline and materially and adversely affect our profitability. Our polysilicon sales prices are affected by a variety of factors, including global supply and demand conditions. Over the years, many polysilicon manufacturers have significantly increased their capacity to meet customer demand and continue to expand capacities in order to achieve economies of scale. However, the global economic slowdown, the crisis in the global financial markets and the significant decrease in global petroleum prices since their peak in mid-2008 have reduced or delayed the general demand for photovoltaic products. If the demand continues to decline or if our customers delay their orders, we may not be able to sell our polysilicon at desirable prices, or at all. In late 2008 and 2009, newly available polysilicon supply and slowed global photovoltaic market growth resulted in an excess supply of polysilicon, which led to a significant decline in polysilicon prices. The declining polysilicon prices had a negative impact on our revenues in 2009. As a result of the significant decline of market price for polysilicon, we had to significantly lower the selling price of our polysilicon in 2009. The global photovoltaic demand increased substantially in the second half of 2010 and, as a result, the demand for polysilicon increased as well. Consequently, polysilicon prices ceased to decline in the middle of 2010 and rose mildly in the second half of 2010. If we experience further decline in demand in the future, or if prices decrease and we are unable to lower our costs in line with the price decline, our operating margins will be reduced and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. We have a limited operating history. We commenced polysilicon manufacturing in July 2008. Several of our senior management and key employees have worked together at our company for only a relatively short period of time. Our future success will depend on our ability to expand our manufacturing capacity significantly beyond its current level and further expand our customer base. To address these risks, we must, among other things, continue to respond to competition and volatile market developments, attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, implement and successfully execute expansion plans and improve our technologies. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in addressing such risks. 7 Table of Contents Although we were profitable in 2009 and 2010, we cannot assure you that our results of operations will not be adversely affected in the future. Our limited operating history makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and therefore, past results of operations achieved by us should not be taken as indicative of the rate of growth, if any, that can be expected in the future. Our business model, technology and ability to achieve satisfactory manufacturing yields for polysilicon at higher volumes are unproven. Compared to companies with a long and well-established operating history and companies operating in less volatile sectors, our results of operations are more susceptible to the impact of adverse operating environment and supply and demand risks. Our revenues and results of operations have fluctuated and are likely to fluctuate in the future. Fluctuations of our revenues and results of operations may occur on a quarterly and on an annual basis and may be due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others, fluctuation in the global average selling prices of photovoltaic products, fluctuation in the volume of our products shipped, changes in end-user demand for the photovoltaic products manufactured and sold by us or our customers, the gain or loss of significant customers, the availability of governmental subsidies or financial support and changes in prices of our electricity, raw material or labor costs. For example, our profits may decline in the upcoming quarters if one or more of these factors occur. Furthermore, wafers, cells and modules traditionally had lower profit margins than polysilicon and we may need to price aggressively to gain market share or remain competitive in these new businesses, which may further reduce our profit margins and cause our financial results to fluctuate from time to time. Therefore, you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties experienced by early stage companies in a rapidly evolving and increasingly competitive market in China. Alternative technologies in cell manufacturing may reduce the demand for polysilicon. The vast majority of silicon-based photovoltaic cell manufacturers use chunk or granular polysilicon. However, alternative technologies have been commercialized. One such technology, thin-film cell production, uses little to no silicon in the production of solar cells. Thin-film solar cells are currently less costly to produce than silicon-based solar cells. Significant expansion of thin-film solar cell production has been announced which may put pressure on the entire value chain of silicon-based solar cell production. This expansion may in turn restrict the market for silicon-based solar cells, which would reduce the demand for our polysilicon. If the demand for polysilicon is adversely affected by increased demand for, and improvements to, alternative technologies, our revenues and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends substantially on our ability to significantly expand our polysilicon production capacity and output, which exposes us to a number of risks and uncertainties. Our future success depends on our ability to significantly increase both polysilicon production capacity and output. If we fail to do so, we may not be able to benefit from economies of scale to reduce our costs per kilogram of polysilicon, to meet our obligations under supply agreements, to maintain our competitive position or to improve our profitability. Our ability to establish additional production capacity and increase output is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including: • the need to raise significant additional funds to purchase additional production equipment or to build additional manufacturing facilities, which we may not be able to obtain on commercially viable terms or at all; • cost overruns and delays as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as increases in the price of electricity or problems with equipment delivery; 8 Table of Contents • delays or denial of required approvals by relevant government authorities; • failure to obtain production inputs in sufficient quantities or at acceptable cost; • significant diversion of management’s attention and other resources; and • failure to execute our expansion plan effectively. We plan to expand downstream to become a vertically integrated photovoltaic manufacturer and we may not be successful in this new endeavor, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We plan to become a vertically integrated photovoltaic manufacturer by entering into the wafer manufacturing business, ramping up our module manufacturing business and potentially entering into the cell manufacturing business in the future. Our ability to successfully implement our expansion strategy is subject to various risks and uncertainties, including: • our lack of experience in these new businesses and inability to recruit experienced personnel; • the need to raise additional funds to finance our new business operation which we may be unable to obtain on reasonable terms or at all; • cost overruns, potential delays, equipment problems or other execution difficulties in our manufacturing facility construction; • our possible lack of ability to compete in these new businesses; and • potential competition with our downstream customers as a result of our entrance into these new businesses. If we are unable to manage these risks and successfully implement our expansion plans, our future results of operations may be material and adversely affected. The reduction in or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives for solar energy applications could cause demand for our products and our revenues to decline. When upfront system costs are factored into cost per kilowatt hour, the current cost of solar power substantially exceeds the cost of traditional forms of energy in many locations. As a result, national and local governmental authorities in many countries, including China, have provided subsidies and economic incentives in the form of feed-in tariffs, rebates, tax credits and other incentives to distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of photovoltaic products to promote the use of solar energy and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. We believe that the near-term growth of the market for solar energy applications depends in large part on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives may hinder the growth of this market or result in increased price competition for solar energy products, which could cause our revenues to decline. These government subsidies and economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated altogether. For example, in 2008, Spain set a cap of 500 megawatts for feed-in tariffs for solar power in 2009, and, in 2010, Spain announced its plan to cut the subsidized electricity prices paid to new photovoltaic solar power plants by up to 45%, both of which are expected to significantly reduce installations of new solar energy projects in the country. In 2009, the German government reduced solar feed-in tariffs by 9%. In July 2010, Germany implemented a further reduction in solar feed-in tariffs of 16% for rooftop systems, 15% for farmland and 11% for spaces such as former military or industrial sites. Such actions may result in a significant fall in the demand for photovoltaic products. In 9 Table of Contents addition, government financial support of photovoltaic products has been, and may continue to be, challenged as being unconstitutional or otherwise unlawful in certain other countries. Reductions in, or elimination of, government subsidies and economic incentives for solar energy applications before the photovoltaic industry reaches the economies of scale necessary for solar power to become cost-effective in a non-subsidized market place could result in decreased demand for solar generation products and, as a result, for polysilicon, which could cause our revenues to decline. We operate in an increasingly competitive market and we may not be able to compete successfully with competitors who have greater resources than us. The photovoltaic market is expected to become increasingly competitive. Our competitors include international polysilicon and wafer manufacturers, such as Hemlock, Wacker, OCI, REC, MEMC, M.Setek, Green Energy Technology and Sino-American Silicon and Chinese domestic polysilicon and wafer manufacturers, such as GCL-Poly, China Silicon Corporation, Sichuan Xinguang Silicon Science and Technology, LDK Solar, ReneSola, JinkoSolar and Comtec Solar Systems. In addition, many solar cell and module manufacturers, including some of our existing and potential customers, have established or have announced the intention of establishing polysilicon production or affiliate relationships with manufacturers of polysilicon. We compete with these in-house capabilities, which could limit our ability to expand our sales or even reduce our sales to our existing customers. As we execute our vertical integration strategy, we expect to face competition from local and international manufacturers, such as SunPower, Suntech Power, Solarfun and Canadian Solar and integrated photovoltaic product manufacturers such as Yingli Green Energy, SolarWorld, and Trina Solar. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we do. Our competitors’ greater size and longer operating history provide them with a competitive advantage with respect to manufacturing costs because of their economies of scale and their ability to purchase raw materials at lower prices. In addition, before we fully ramp up our wafer and module manufacturing facilities, the production cost of our wafers and modules will not be competitive to those of our competitors due to our relatively small production scale. Our competitors may have stronger relationships or may enter into exclusive relationships with some of our key customers. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to changing customer demands or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sales of polysilicon than we can. Failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or new competitors may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a limited number of customers and sales contracts for a significant portion of our revenues and the loss of any customer or cancellation of any contract may cause significant fluctuations or declines in our revenues. In 2009 and 2010, our top three customers in aggregate accounted for approximately 53.6% and 29.1% of our total revenues, respectively. We anticipate that our dependence on a limited number of customers will continue for the foreseeable future. Consequently, any one of the following events may cause material fluctuations or declines in our revenues: • reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers, thus having a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition; • loss of one or more of our significant customers and failure to identify additional or replacement customers; and • failure of any of our significant customers to make timely payment for our products. 10 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business and financial results may be adversely affected. We have experienced a period of rapid growth and expansion that has placed, and continues to place, significant strain on our management and resources. To accommodate our growth, we anticipate that we will need to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including the improvement of our accounting and other internal management systems, all of which require substantial management efforts. We also will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce and manage our customer relationships. All of these endeavors will require substantial management efforts and skills and require significant additional expenditures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage our growth effectively, and any failure to do so may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Moreover, even if we do expand our polysilicon manufacturing capacity and our wafer and module businesses as planned, we may be unable to generate sufficient customer demand for our photovoltaic products to support our increased production levels or successfully integrate our polysilicon, wafer and module manufacturing businesses to achieve operational efficiency, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We expect to experience increased costs as a result of the construction of our Phase 2 facilities. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Manufacturing Capacity.” Before our production facilities become fully operational, we will need to make substantial payments for the installation of machinery and equipment, the training of personnel and other related expenses. A significant portion of these payments will be made prior to any revenues being realized from the expansion project. If we cannot complete our expansion plans on a timely basis or increase production yields in our facilities in accordance with our plan, we may not be able to achieve lower costs per unit of production, which would decrease our margins and lower our profitability. Polysilicon production is energy-intensive and if our energy costs rise or if our electricity and other utility supplies are disrupted, our results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. The polysilicon production process, particularly the modified Siemens process that we use, is highly dependent on a constant supply of electricity and other utilities, such as steam, natural gas and water, to maintain the optimal conditions for polysilicon production. If electricity or other utility supplies are not maintained at the desired level, we may experience significant delays in the production of polysilicon. In the past, there were shortages in electricity supply in various regions across China, especially during peak seasons, such as in the summer. In addition, the uncommon cold weather in China in the winter of 2009 resulted in a surging natural gas demand, which in turn caused severe gas shortage in many regions, including Chongqing, where substantially all our polysilicon manufacturing facilities are located. The local governmental authorities in the worst-hit areas took measures to reduce or restrict the amount of natural gas supplied to non-residential users. We primarily use natural gas for our in-house steam production and steam is critical for our manufacturing process. Although the natural gas shortage did not directly affect our operations, if the shortage becomes more severe in the future, our natural gas supply may be reduced or suspended, which would significantly disrupt our manufacturing process. In addition to shortages, we are subject to potential risks of interruptions in energy supply due to power outage, equipment failure, weather conditions or other causes which could force us to cease production for a prolonged period of time. In the event that electricity or other utility supplies to our manufacturing facilities are disrupted, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Even if we have access to sufficient sources of electricity and other utilities, any significant increase in the costs of utilities could adversely affect our profitability, as we consume substantial amounts of electricity and other utilities in our manufacturing process. If electricity and other utility costs were to rise, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents The full implementation of the closed loop system by other polysilicon manufacturers has diminished and may continue to diminish our competitive advantages provided by this system. We have implemented the modified Siemens process in a completely closed loop system. We believe we are one of the few China-based polysilicon manufacturers that have fully implemented the closed loop system in the polysilicon production process. Compared to the open loop system, the closed loop system uses raw materials more efficiently, requires less electricity and produces less pollution. Although the closed loop system has lower manufacturing costs than the open loop system, manufacturing facilities based on the open loop system can be built within a shorter period time with less initial capital investment for equipment. Most of polysilicon manufacturing facilities in China were traditionally built based on the open loop system. However, as the polysilicon market may face downward pricing pressure from time to time, we believe that an increasing number of China-based manufacturers are converting their open loop system to the closed loop system and some of them have completed such conversion. The full implementation of the closed loop system by other polysilicon manufacturers has diminished and may continue to diminish our competitive advantages provided by this system. We need a significant amount of cash to fund our future capital expenditure requirements and working capital needs; if we cannot obtain additional sources of liquidity when needed, our growth prospects and future profitability may be materially and adversely affected. We need a significant amount of cash to fund our operations. In particular, we will need substantial additional funding to finance our expansion of polysilicon and module production capacities, our establishment of wafer business and our working capital requirements and to repay any short-term or long-term bank borrowings when due. We will also need cash resources to fund our research and development activities in order to remain competitive on cost and technology. In the past, we relied in part on long-term bank borrowings and advance payments from customers to finance our working capital requirements. However, we expect that we may not be able to obtain a substantial amount of, or any, advance payments from customers in the future as the photovoltaic markets become increasingly competitive. In addition, future acquisitions, expansions, market changes or other developments may cause us to require additional financing. We expect to incur additional debt in the future. Our ability to obtain external financing in the future is subject to a number of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for financing activities by companies in our industry; • economic, political and other conditions in China and elsewhere; and • development and duration of the current global economic slowdown and financial market crisis. If we are unable to obtain funding in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, our growth prospects and future profitability may be materially and adversely affected. Our current indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2010, we had outstanding borrowings of $154 million with a weighted average floating interest rate of 5.86%, and we expect to incur additional debt in the future. We borrowed the majority of these bank loans from China Construction Bank, Wanzhou Branch with guarantees from Daqo Group, an affiliated company of ours. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew these borrowings when they become due or to obtain other loans or credits from other banks or other lenders on the terms satisfactory to us or at all to satisfy the substantial capital expenditure requirements associated with our capacity expansion, whether on our own or with the continuing support from Daqo Group. In addition, this level of indebtedness could have an adverse 12 Table of Contents effect on our future operations, including, among other things: (1) reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund our working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes as a result of interest or principal payments; (2) subjecting us to the risk of interest rate increases on our indebtedness which bears floating interest rates; and (3) placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are otherwise less leveraged. Any of these factors could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We plan to enter into the downstream wafer manufacturing business and we may not be successful in this new endeavor, which may adversely affect our business expansion strategies and harm our financial condition and results of operations. We plan to expand into the wafer production business, which we believe will enable us to capture greater revenue opportunities and diversify business risks. Our ability to successfully implement our wafer business strategy is subject to various risks and uncertainties, including: • our possible lack of ability to compete in the wafer production business; and • potential competition with our downstream customers. We used a portion of the proceeds from our initial public offering to finance capital expenditures for our wafer manufacturing business and if we cannot generate revenues or achieve profitability in this business as we expect, our financial condition will be adversely affected. In addition, our current management team has limited experience in this area and we will need to recruit additional skilled employees, including technicians and managers at different levels for our successful expansion into the wafer manufacturing business. All these factors and uncertainties may adversely affect our business expansion strategy and our financial condition and results of operations. We have recently entered into the downstream module manufacturing business, and we may not be successful in this new endeavor, which may adversely affect our business expansion strategies. We commenced commercial production of modules at our Nanjing facilities and shipped modules to customers in Europe in July 2010. To expand our module business, we plan to increase our production capacity from 50 MW as of June 30, 2010 to 200 MW in the third quarter of 2011. We have obtained the requisite permits for our module manufacturing business in Nanjing and are in the process of obtaining governmental approvals for our module capacity expansion plan. We expect to receive governmental approvals in the near future. However, if such approvals cannot be obtained in a timely manner, we may be required to suspend our module manufacturing expansion plan until such approvals are obtained, which could adversely affect our expansion strategies. We currently source wafers and cells for our module production through direct purchases and tolling arrangements. If we cannot secure a stable supply of cells for our module production at reasonable prices, our ability to execute our expansion plan will be adversely and materially affected. Currently, due to the supply and demand imbalance in China’s photovoltaic cell market, there is a limited supply of high quality photovoltaic cells. We cannot assure you that such supply and demand imbalance will not continue or recur or we will be able to obtain sufficient cells in pace with the expansion of our module manufacturing capacity in the future. We provide customers with a five-year limited product warranty against defective materials and workmanship and a 25-year limited power output warranty against loss in power for our module products. As a result, we bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long after we sell our products. If we experience a large amount of warranty claims in the future, we may incur significant repair and replacement costs associated with such claims. Furthermore, widespread product failures could harm our reputation and customer relationships and may cause our sales to decline, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We may expand our business through alliances, joint ventures or acquisitions in the future. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire or invest in technologies, businesses or assets that are strategically important to our business or form alliances with key players in the photovoltaic industry to further expand our business. Such acquisitions and investments could expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with the assimilation of new operations, technologies and personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions, and potential loss of, or harm to, our relationships with employees, customers and suppliers as a result of integration of new businesses. Investments in new businesses may also divert our cash flow from servicing our debts and making necessary capital expenditures. In addition, we may incur impairment losses on our acquisitions and investments in equity securities. The diversion of our management’s attention and any difficulties encountered with respect to the acquisitions, investments or alliances or in the process of integration could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Furthermore, our experience in the polysilicon manufacturing industry may not be as relevant or applicable in downstream markets. We may also face intense competition from companies with greater experience or established presence in the targeted downstream markets or competition from our industry peers with similar expansion plans. Any failure to integrate any acquired businesses or joint ventures into our operations successfully and any material liabilities or potential liabilities of any acquired businesses or joint ventures that are not identified by us during our due diligence process for such acquisitions or investments could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. We will face risks associated with the marketing, distribution and sale of our photovoltaic products internationally, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, they could impair our ability to expand our business and operate profitably. With our increased production, we intend to sell a portion of our products outside of China in the future. The marketing, distribution and sale of our polysilicon, wafers and modules in the international market would expose us to a number of risks, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • increased costs associated with maintaining marketing efforts in various countries; • difficulty and costs relating to compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas markets in which we offer our products; and • trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make us less competitive in some countries. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks, we may not be able to successfully expand our business abroad, operate profitably, fully utilize our existing and expanded capacity and grow our business as we have planned. If we are unable to operate effectively or natural disasters or operational disruptions occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Production of polysilicon requires the use of volatile materials and chemical reactions sensitive to temperature and pressure and requires the use of external controls to maintain safety. For example, in the production of polysilicon, we use trichlorosilane, or TCS, which is a highly combustible substance if brought into contact with moisture in the air and is therefore potentially destructive and extremely dangerous if mishandled or used in uncontrolled circumstances. The occurrence of a catastrophic event involving TCS as a result of a natural disaster or human error at one of our polysilicon production facilities could threaten, disrupt or destroy a significant portion or all of our polysilicon production capacity at such facility for a significant period of time. 14 Table of Contents Additionally, the smooth operation of our polysilicon production facilities depends significantly on our ability to maintain temperatures and pressure at appropriate levels, the supply of steam at a consistent pressure level, the availability of adequate electricity and our ability to control the application of such electricity. Accordingly, mistakes in operating our equipment or an interruption in the supply of electricity or steam at our production facilities could result in the production of substandard polysilicon or substantial shortfalls in production and could reduce our production capacity for a significant period of time. In addition, we voluntarily shut down our manufacturing facilities from time to time on an as-needed basis for maintenance and quality check purposes. For example, we temporarily shut down our Phase 1 facilities in November 2009 for quality check purposes, in April 2010 for periodic maintenance and in December 2010 for periodic maintenance and capacity enhancement, which has reduced and may further reduce the volume and increase the cost of polysilicon we produce. In addition, we may need to use hazardous equipment for our wafer and module manufacturing processes. Such equipment requires skills and experience for safe operation. We could experience events such as equipment failures, explosions or fires due to employee errors, equipment malfunctions, accidents, and interruptions in electricity or water cooling supplies, natural disasters or other causes. In addition, such events could cause damage to properties, personal injuries or even deaths. As a result, we may in the future experience production curtailments or shutdowns or periods of reduced production. The occurrence of any such events or disruptions could result in loss of revenues and could also damage our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may not be successful in our efforts to continue to manufacture polysilicon in a cost-effective manner. The technology used to manufacture polysilicon is complex, requires costly equipment and is continuously being modified in an effort to improve yields and product performance. We may face significant challenges relating to polysilicon production in the future. Microscopic impurities such as dust and other contaminants, difficulties in the manufacturing process, disruptions in the supply of utilities or defects in the key materials or tools used to manufacture polysilicon could interrupt manufacturing, reduce yields or cause a portion of the polysilicon to be rejected by our customers, which would materially and adversely affect our profitability. Our effective capacity and ability to produce high volumes of polysilicon depend on the cycle time for each batch of polysilicon. We may encounter problems in our manufacturing process or facilities as a result of, among other things, production failures, construction delays, human error, equipment malfunction or process contamination, all of which could seriously harm our operations. We may experience production delays if any modifications we make in the manufacturing process to shorten production cycles are unsuccessful. Moreover, failure to achieve acceptable manufacturing levels may make our polysilicon costs uncompetitive, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further development in alternative polysilicon production technologies or other changes in the photovoltaic industry could render our production process too costly or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our sales and profits to decline. Although the vast majority of the polysilicon produced in the world utilizes the chemical vapor deposition process, or the “modified Siemens process,” several alternative production processes have been developed that may have significantly lower production costs. Compared with other polysilicon production processes, a disadvantage of the modified Siemens process is the large amount of electricity required. For example, MEMC, REC and Wacker currently operate or are constructing facilities that use the “fluidized bed reactor” method for producing polysilicon. Tokuyama has developed a polysilicon technology called the “vapor-to-liquid deposition” process. Other polysilicon manufacturers are establishing facilities using upgraded metallurgical grade silicon process to produce solar-grade polysilicon. Further developments in competing polysilicon production technologies may result in lower manufacturing costs or higher product performance than those achieved from the modified Siemens process, including the one 15 Table of Contents we employ. We will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to expand our market position, keep pace with technological advances in polysilicon production and effectively compete in the future. Failure to further refine our technology could make our production process too costly or obsolete, which could reduce our margins and market share, cause our revenues to decline and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Existing regulations and changes to these regulations may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of photovoltaic products, which may significantly reduce demand for our products. Photovoltaic products are subject to national and local regulations relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and other aspects of the electric utility industry. In a number of countries, including China, these regulations are being modified and may continue to be modified. The purchases of, or further investment in the research and development of, alternative energy sources, including photovoltaic technology, could be deterred by unfavorable regulations, which could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for our products. For example, without a regulatory mandated exception for solar power systems, electric utility companies are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. These fees could increase the cost to end users of using the photovoltaic products and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. A global financial and economic crisis, particularly a slowdown in the Chinese economy, may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The global financial crisis and economic downturn that unfolded in 2008 and continued in 2009 adversely affected economies and businesses around the world, including those in China. More recently, there has been concern over capital markets access and the solvency of certain European Union member states, and unrest in the Middle East and North Africa which has lead to higher oil prices. Since we currently derive substantially all of our revenues from customers in China, any prolonged slowdown in the Chinese economy may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways. For example, our customers may decrease or delay spending with us, while we may have difficulty expanding our customer base fast enough, or at all, to offset the impact of decreased spending by our existing customers. In addition, to the extent we offer credit to any customer and such customer experiences financial difficulties due to the economic slowdown, we could have difficulty collecting payment from such customer. We obtain certain production equipment from a limited number of suppliers, and if such equipment is not delivered on time, is damaged in shipment or is otherwise unavailable, our ability to deliver polysilicon on time will suffer, which in turn could result in cancellation of orders and loss of revenues. Our operations and expansion plans depend on our ability to obtain a sufficient amount of equipment that meets our specifications on a timely basis. Some of our equipment used in polysilicon and wafer production is not readily available from alternative vendors and would be difficult to repair or replace if it were to become damaged or cease working. If any of these suppliers were to experience financial difficulties or go out of business, or if there were any damage to or a breakdown of our production equipment, our business would suffer. In addition, a supplier’s failure to supply our ordered equipment in a timely manner, with adequate quality and on terms acceptable to us, could delay the capacity expansion of our manufacturing facilities and otherwise disrupt our production schedule or increase our costs of production. We have experienced significant delays in the delivery of our key equipment in the past. Failure to obtain equipment meeting our specifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, demand for polysilicon and wafer production equipment may result in significant increases in prices of such equipment or shortages in related components for our intended expansion. Any unexpected price increases could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents We have sourced and will continue to source some of our production equipment from Chinese manufacturers, and we cannot assure you that the China sourced equipment will perform at the same level as our imported equipment or will meet our quality requirements. We have purchased key equipment from Chinese and international suppliers. Compared to major international suppliers, our China-based suppliers generally have shorter operating histories and less experience in providing equipment for the polysilicon industry. We cannot assure you that the locally made equipment will perform at similar levels of quality and reliability as our imported equipment. In the event the China sourced equipment does not perform as well as the imported equipment or does not perform at all, we may encounter disruption in our manufacture or deterioration of product quality, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Product defects could result in increased costs, decreased sales, and damage to our customer relationships and our reputation. Our photovoltaic products may contain defects that are not detected until after it is shipped or processed by our customers. In the event our products are returned to us due to product defects, we would be required to replace the defective products promptly. If we deliver products with defects, or if there is a perception that our products are of substandard quality, we may incur substantially increased costs associated with termination of contracts and replacement of shipped products, and our credibility, market reputation and relationship with customers will be harmed and sales of our products may be materially and adversely affected. Most of our production, storage, administrative, and research and development facilities are located in close proximity to one another in Chongqing, China. Any damage or disruption at these facilities would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Substantially all of our production, storage, administrative, and research and development facilities are currently located in close proximity to one another in Chongqing, China. A natural disaster, such as fire, floods, typhoons, earthquakes, snow storms, or other unanticipated catastrophic events, including power interruption, telecommunications failures, equipment failures, explosions, break-ins, terrorist acts or war, could significantly disrupt our ability to manufacture our products and operate our business. If any of our production facilities or material equipment were to experience any significant damage or downtime, we would not be able to meet our production targets and our business would suffer. Any damage or disruption at these facilities would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On May 12, 2008, an earthquake of a magnitude of 8.0 on the Richter scale hit the Sichuan Province, which is located adjacent to Chongqing. Businesses and production operations in the affected areas of Sichuan Province were shut down temporarily due to safety concerns. There can be no assurance that we may not be directly or indirectly affected by similar natural disasters in the future. We rely on third party intellectual property for certain key aspects of our operations, which subjects us to the payment of license fees and potential disruption or delays in the production of our products. While we continue to develop and pursue patent protection for our own technologies, we expect to continue to rely on third party license arrangements for certain key aspects of our operations. For instance, Poly Engineering S.r.l., or Poly Engineering, granted a license to our company for the exclusive rights in China, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau to utilize its modified Siemens process to produce polysilicon in our facilities. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Intellectual Property” for details of the contractual arrangements. The fees associated with such licenses could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. If for any reason we are unable to license necessary technology on acceptable terms or at all, it may become necessary for us to develop alternative technology internally, which could be costly and delay or disrupt our production and therefore have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 17 Table of Contents Failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights may be costly. We rely primarily on trade secrets and other contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. Contractual arrangements, such as the confidentiality and non-competition agreements and terms between us and our research and development personnel, afford only limited protection and the actions we may take to protect our trade secrets and other intellectual property may not be adequate. In addition, we currently have ten pending patent applications in China covering various aspects of the polysilicon manufacturing process. However, we cannot assure you that our patent applications will be eventually issued with sufficiently broad coverage to protect our technology and products. Failure to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights may undermine our competitive position. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary technologies or other intellectual property and proprietary rights and use them to compete against us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. In particular, the laws and enforcement procedures of China and certain other countries are uncertain or do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws and enforcement procedures of the United States do. See “—Risks Relating to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of Chinese laws and regulations could limit the legal protection available to you and us.” We may need to resort to court proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights in the future. Litigation relating to our intellectual property might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention away from our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property and proprietary rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to pay significant damage awards. Although we are currently strengthening our research and development capability, to date, substantially all of the intellectual property used in our production process was developed by third parties. Our success will be jeopardized if we cannot use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to photovoltaic technology patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. We may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of other intellectual property rights of third parties. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings, and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time-consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, to pay ongoing royalties, or to redesign our manufacturing process or our products or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our products or the use of our technologies. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such litigation. We may not be able to continue to receive the same level of support from Daqo Group, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Since our inception, we have substantially benefited from financial support from Daqo Group, one of the largest electrical equipment manufacturers in China. As of December 31, 2010, we had outstanding payables to Daqo Group in the amount of $0.4 million. We also had prepayment obligations to Daqo Group in the amount of $0.9 million as we had contracted with Daqo Group to purchase certain machines and other equipment from third parties on our behalf. Daqo Group guarantees substantially all of our outstanding bank borrowings. In addition, Daqo Group has granted us a permanent and royalty-free license to use the “Daqo” brand, which is a well recognized brand in the electrical industry in China. We have benefited from the strong brand recognition of 18 Table of Contents “Daqo” in our business development efforts, as evidenced by our ability to secure major customers based in China within a short period after we commenced commercial production of polysilicon. Daqo Group has agreed in writing not to engage in the business of manufacturing, marketing or distributing polysilicon or any other solar power products anywhere in the world or compete in any manner with our businesses without our consent for an indefinite term. However, we cannot assure you that we will continue to receive the same level of support, or any support at all, from Daqo Group in the future. If Daqo Group ceases to support us, our business, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, any negative publicity associated with Daqo Group will likely have an adverse impact on our reputation, which could materially and adversely affect our business. In the event of any disagreements with Daqo Group, we may have to resort to legal proceedings in China to enforce our rights, which could be costly, time consuming and involve uncertain outcome. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and key employees, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends substantially on the continued services of our executive officers and key employees, especially Mr. Guangfu Xu, our chairman, and Dr. Gongda Yao, our chief executive officer. If one or more of our executive officers or key employees were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we might not be able to replace them easily, in a timely manner, or at all. Our business may be severely disrupted, our financial conditions and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected and we may incur additional expenses to recruit, train and retain personnel. If any of our executive officers or key employees join a competitor or form a competing company, we may lose customers, suppliers, know-how and key professionals and staff members. Each of our executive officers and key employees has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains non-competition provisions. However, if any dispute arises between our executive officers and us, these agreements may not be enforceable in China, where these executive officers reside, in light of uncertainties with China’s legal system. See “—Risks Relating to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of Chinese laws and regulations could limit the legal protection available to you and us.” Certain of our principal shareholders have substantial influence over our company and their interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. As of the date of this annual report, four of our directors, Messrs. Guangfu Xu, Xiang Xu, Fei Ge and Dafeng Shi, beneficially own an aggregate of 42.9% of our outstanding share capital. These four shareholders are also directors of Daqo Group or Daqo Group’s material subsidiaries. As a result of their high level of shareholding, these shareholders have substantial influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. These shareholders may take actions that are not in the best interest of us or our other shareholders. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our other shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. These shareholders’ interests as beneficial owners of Daqo Group and Daqo New Material may not always be aligned with their interests as our shareholders. Should any conflict of interest arise, these shareholders may take actions not in the best interest of us and our other shareholders. If we are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, particularly technical personnel with expertise in the photovoltaic industry. Since our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain qualified technical staff or other highly skilled employees that we will need to achieve our 19 Table of Contents strategic objectives, including our initiatives to expand downstream into the wafer and cell manufacturing businesses and to ramp up our module manufacturing capacity. As we are still a relatively young company and our business has grown rapidly, our ability to train and integrate new employees into our operations may not meet the growing demands of our business. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and non-compliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages and fines. As our manufacturing processes generate waste water and gas and other industrial wastes, we are required to comply with all applicable regulations regarding protection of the environment. We are in compliance with present environmental protection requirements and have all the necessary environmental permits to conduct our business in all material respects. However, if more stringent regulations are adopted in the future, the cost of compliance with these new regulations could be substantial. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental regulations, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations, which in turn would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our expansion in Xinjiang, China may not be successful. We commenced construction of our Phase 2 polysilicon facilities in Shihezhi, Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region in March 2011 and plan to start commercial production at these facilities in the fourth quarter of 2012. Although the Xinjinag location provides many strategic advantages, including lower electricity costs, it is uncertain whether our expansion in Xinjinag will be successful. There are many risks associated with the our expansion in Xinjiang, including: • extremely cold temperatures; • limited supply chain support in the region, such as chemical manufacturers of chemicals used in production at the facilities; • lack of workers in Xinjiang experienced with polysilicon manufacturing; • potential lack of electricity supplies necessary to fully operate the facilities; • difficulties in timely transporting products to our customers, most of whom are located in other areas of China that are a significant distance from Xinjiang; and • political or social unrest. One or more of these factors could harm our Xinjiang operations and consequently, could adversely affect our overall operating results. The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments or the financial incentives and grants currently available to us in China could adversely affect our overall results of operations. Various Chinese governmental authorities have provided tax incentives to our subsidiaries in China. These incentives include income tax exemption or reduced enterprise income tax rates. For example, under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, the statutory enterprise income tax rate is 25%. However, our Chinese subsidiary Chongqing Daqo, as a foreign-invested enterprise established in the central and western regions of China, was entitled to a preferential enterprise income tax rate of 15% through 2010. In December 2009, Chongqing Daqo was qualified as a “Chongqing Municipality High and 20 Table of Contents New Technology Enterprise.” This will entitle it to a preferential enterprise income tax rate of 15% for three years from the grant date of the certificate and can be renewed for additional three-year terms upon Chongqing Daqo’s application and the government’s approval. If there are significant changes in the business operations, manufacturing technologies or other criteria that cause the enterprise to no longer meet the criteria as a “high and new technology enterprise,” such status will be terminated from the year of such change. We cannot assure you that Chongqing Daqo will continue to qualify as a “high and new technology enterprise” in future periods. In addition, Chongqing Daqo has received various financial incentives and grants from the local government since its inception. For example, it received government grants in the amount of $2.8 million in 2010. Any increase in the enterprise income tax rate applicable to our Chinese subsidiaries or discontinuation or reduction of any of the preferential tax treatments or financial incentives currently enjoyed by our subsidiaries in China could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The dividends we receive from our Chinese subsidiaries and our global income may be subject to Chinese tax under the EIT Law, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations; our foreign ADS holders will be subject to a Chinese withholding tax upon the dividends payable by us, if we are classified as a Chinese “resident enterprise.” Under the Chinese enterprise income tax laws and regulations, dividends, interests, rent, royalties and gains on transfers of property payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its foreign investor who is a non-resident enterprise will be subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless such non-resident enterprise’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a reduced rate of withholding tax. The Cayman Islands, where Daqo Cayman is incorporated, does not have such a tax treaty with China. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside China with its “de facto management body” within China is considered a “resident enterprise” in China and will be subject to the Chinese enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its worldwide income. In April 2009, the Chinese State Administration of Taxation issued a new circular to clarify criteria for determining the “resident enterprise” status of foreign companies which are controlled by enterprises incorporated in China. Pursuant to the circular, to determine whether a company formed outside of mainland China and controlled by an enterprise incorporated in China should be treated as a Chinese resident enterprise, the tax authority will review factors such as the routine operation of the organizational body that effectively manages the enterprise’s production and business operations, locations of personnel holding decision-making power, location of finance and accounting functions and properties of the enterprise, and more than half of the directors or senior management personnel residing in China. Substantially all of our management members are based in China. However, it remains unclear how PRC tax authority will treat an overseas company controlled by PRC natural persons rather than PRC enterprises like our case. If the Chinese tax authorities subsequently determine that Daqo Cayman should be classified as a resident enterprise, then our worldwide income will be subject to Chinese income tax, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, the EIT Law also provides that, if a resident enterprise directly invests in another resident enterprise, the dividends received by the investing resident enterprise from the invested enterprise are exempted from income tax, subject to certain conditions. Therefore, if Daqo Cayman is classified as resident enterprise under the EIT Law, the dividends received from our Chinese subsidiaries may be exempted from withholding tax. Moreover, under the EIT Law, foreign ADS holders will be subject to a 10% withholding tax upon dividends payable by us if Daqo Cayman is classified as resident enterprise under the EIT Law. Any such tax may reduce the returns on your investment in our ADSs. We rely on a lease agreement with Daqo New Material for material property, plant and equipment necessary for our production, and if Daqo New Material fails to perform, or terminates the lease agreement for any reason, our business could be disrupted. Chongqing Daqo leases certain property, plant and equipment from Daqo New Material for its polysilicon production under a lease agreement effective from July 1, 2008, which was subsequently amended. When the 21 Table of Contents initial term expires on December 31, 2013, Chongqing Daqo has an option to renew the lease agreement on the same conditions for additional terms. If Daqo New Material fails to perform or terminates the lease agreement for any reason, including, for example, due to its breach of the agreement or the unavailability of any required governmental approvals, or if it refuses to extend or renew the lease agreement when the agreement expires, and we cannot find an immediately available alternative source for leasing similar property, plant and equipment, then our ability to carry on our operations will be impaired. If Daqo New Material fails to perform its obligations, we may need to initiate legal procedures in courts to enforce the agreement. Such procedures can be lengthy and the result may not be favorable to us. We have limited insurance coverage. In particular, we do not have any product liability insurance or business interruption insurance. As the insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development, the product liability insurance and business interruption insurance available in China offer limited coverage compared to that offered in many other countries. We do not have any product liability insurance or business interruption insurance. Any business disruption or natural disaster could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As with other photovoltaic product manufacturers, we are exposed to risks associated with product liability claims if the use of our photovoltaic products results in injury. Since our polysilicon products are made into electricity generating devices, it is possible that users could be injured or killed by devices that use our products as a result of product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. We only began commercial shipment of our photovoltaic products in July 2008 and, because of our limited operating history, we cannot predict whether product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of any resulting negative publicity on our business. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages and require us to make significant payments. In the course of the preparation and audit of our financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, we and our independent auditors, respectively, noted one material weakness and one significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting. We may incur extra costs in implementing measures to address such weakness and deficiency. If we fail to implement and maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to accurately report our results of operations or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. Prior to our initial public offering in October 2010, we were a private company with limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal controls over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm has not conducted an audit of our internal control over financial reporting. However, in connection with the audits of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, we and our independent registered public accounting firm identified one “material weakness” and one “significant deficiency” in our internal control over financial reporting, as defined in the standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board of the United States. The material weakness identified related to our lack of sufficient accounting resources and expertise necessary to comply with U.S. GAAP and the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, reporting and compliance requirements. The significant deficiency identified related to our lack of sufficient and formally documented procedures for the financial closing and reporting process. In compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, and its applicable rules and regulations, we have taken certain steps to remedy the material weakness and the significant deficiency, including hiring an outside consulting firm to review our internal control processes, policies and procedures in order to assist us in identifying any weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. 22 Table of Contents We will continue to implement measures during 2011 to remedy the material weakness and the significant deficiency, including: • providing further training to our financial and accounting staff to enhance their knowledge of U.S. GAAP; and • adopting and implementing additional policies and procedures to strengthen our internal control over financial reporting. We are working to implement these measures, although we cannot assure you that we will complete such implementation in a timely manner. As a public company in the United States subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, requires that we include a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report on Form 20-F beginning with our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management may conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm, after conducting its own independent testing, may issue a report that is adverse if it is not satisfied with our internal controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. In addition, our reporting obligations may place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. During the course of documenting and testing our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404, we may identify other deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, as these standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. If we fail to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment, we could suffer material misstatements in our financial statements and fail to meet our reporting obligations, which would likely cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. This could harm our operating results and lead to a decline in the trading price of our ADSs. Additionally, ineffective internal control over financial reporting could expose us to increased risk of fraud or misuse of corporate assets and subject us to potential delisting from the stock exchange on which we list, regulatory investigations and civil or criminal sanctions. We have granted, and may continue to grant, stock options and other share-based compensation in the future, which may materially impact our future results of operations. We adopted our 2009 share incentive plan in August 2009 that permits the grant of stock options, restricted shares and restricted share units to employees, directors and consultants of our company. Under the 2009 share incentive plan, we may issue options to purchase up to 15,000,000 ordinary shares. As of the date of this annual report, options to purchase 7,660,000 ordinary shares have been granted under this plan. As a result of these option grants and potential future grants under the plan, we have incurred, and will incur in future periods, significant share-based compensation expenses. We account for compensation costs for all stock options using a fair-value based method and recognize expenses in our consolidated statement of income in accordance with the relevant rules in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which may have a material adverse effect on our net income. Moreover, the additional expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of such incentive plan to us. However, if we limit the scope of our share incentive plan, we may not be able to attract or retain key personnel who are expected to be compensated by incentive shares or options. 23 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Doing Business in China Changes in China’s economic, political or social conditions or government policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Substantially all of our assets are located in and substantially all of our revenues are currently sourced from China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be influenced to a significant degree by political, economic and social conditions in China generally and by continued economic growth in China as a whole. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the level of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. Although the Chinese government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over the Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. While the Chinese economy has experienced a significant growth over the past decades, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us, and by government policies or guidance aimed at curtailing the perceived over-capacity of certain industry sectors, such as steel, concrete, polysilicon and wind power equipment. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation—Renewable Energy Law and Other Government Directives.” The Chinese government has implemented certain measures, including interest rate increases, to control the pace of economic growth. These measures may cause decreased economic activity in China, which could in turn reduce the demand for our services and materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of Chinese laws and regulations could limit the legal protection available to you and us. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which legal decisions have limited value as precedents. In the late 1970s, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly increased the protections afforded to various forms of foreign or private-sector investment in China. Our Chinese operating subsidiaries, Chongqing Daqo and Nanjing Daqo, are foreign-invested enterprises and are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises as well as various Chinese laws and regulations generally applicable to companies in China. Our business is also subject to various industry policy, safety and environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations and production facility expansion plans, including those related to investment, project construction, building, zoning, fire prevention and work safety. These laws and regulations are still evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. In addition, due to the inconsistent nature of regulatory enforcements in China, local Chinese governmental authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing rules and regulations, and there is no assurance that the central government authorities will always agree with the interpretations and implementations of the local governmental authorities. Currently, all governmental approvals relating to our operations and production capacity expansion plans have been issued by the relevant competent local government authorities. However, if a central government agency 24 Table of Contents requires us to obtain its approval and if we fail to obtain such approval in a timely manner, or at all, we may be subject to the imposition of fines against us, or the suspension or cessation of our production capacity expansion plans. In addition, under the measures jointly issued by the National Development and Reform Commission, or NDRC, and nine other governmental agencies in September 2009, we will need to seek pre-approval from NDRC if we plan to further expand our production capacity beyond Phase 2. As the detailed guidelines for approval criteria or timeline under these measures have yet to be promulgated, we cannot assure you that we will obtain the required NDRC approval in time or at all if we plan to further expand our production capacity beyond Phase 2. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation—Renewable Energy Law and Other Government Directives.” It may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of any regulatory or legal proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may impede our ability to continue our operations or planned capacity expansions, which, as a result, could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Chinese regulations relating to offshore investment activities by Chinese residents may increase the administrative burden we face and may subject our Chinese resident beneficial owners or employees to personal liabilities, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to increase its registered capital or distribute profits to us, limit our ability to inject capital into our Chinese subsidiaries, or may otherwise expose us to liability under Chinese law. SAFE has promulgated regulations that require Chinese residents and Chinese corporate entities to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations may apply to our shareholders who are Chinese residents and may apply to any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. In October 2005, SAFE issued a regulation entitled “Circular on Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Regulation of Corporate Financing and Roundtrip Investments by Chinese Residents through Offshore Special Purpose Companies,” or SAFE Circular No. 75. SAFE Circular No. 75 requires Chinese residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equities of Chinese companies, referred to in the notice as an “offshore special purpose company.” In addition, any Chinese resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of an offshore company is required to update his registration with the relevant SAFE branches, with respect to that offshore company, any material change involving increase or decrease of capital, transfer or swap of shares, merger, division, equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest. Moreover, the Chinese subsidiaries of that offshore company are required to coordinate and supervise the filing of SAFE registrations by the offshore company’s shareholders who are Chinese residents in a timely manner. If a Chinese shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, the Chinese subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the Chinese subsidiaries, and the offshore parent company may also be prohibited from injecting additional capital into its Chinese subsidiaries. Furthermore, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above may result in liability for the Chinese shareholders and the Chinese subsidiaries under Chinese law for foreign exchange registration evasion. We have, up to the present, completed the SAFE Circular No. 75 registration for all current beneficial shareholders of our company who are Chinese residents. However, we may not be fully informed of the identities of the beneficial owners of our company in the future and we cannot assure you that all of our Chinese resident beneficial owners will comply with the SAFE regulations. The failure of our beneficial owners who are Chinese residents to make any required registrations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, and prevent us from being able to make distributions or pay dividends, as a result of which our business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. On March 28, 2007, SAFE issued the Operating Procedures on Administration of Foreign Exchange Regarding Chinese Individuals’ Participation in Employee Share Ownership Plans and Employee Stock Option 25 Table of Contents Plans of Overseas Listed Companies, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, Chinese citizens who are granted stock options by an overseas publicly listed company are required, through a Chinese agent or Chinese subsidiary of such overseas publicly listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our Chinese employees who have been granted stock options are subject to the Stock Option Rule as we are an overseas publicly listed company. and we are in the process of registering our share incentive plan and completing other process If we or our Chinese employees fail to comply with such regulation, we or our employees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. Chinese regulation of direct investment and loans by offshore holding companies to Chinese entities may delay or limit us from making additional capital contributions or loans to our Chinese subsidiaries. Any capital contributions or loans that we, as an offshore entity, make to our Chinese subsidiaries, are subject to Chinese regulations. For example, for each of our Chinese subsidiary, the aggregate amount of our loans to the Chinese subsidiary cannot exceed the difference between the amount of its total investment and its registered capital as approved by the foreign investment regulatory authorities under relevant Chinese laws, and the loans must be registered with the local branch of the SAFE. For each foreign invested enterprise, such as Chongqing Daqo and Nanjing Daqo, when the Chinese foreign investment regulatory authorities approve the establishment of such foreign invested enterprise, the authorities approve the amounts of such enterprise’s registered capital, which represent the investors’ capital commitment in equity, and the amounts of its total investment, which represent the sum of its registered capital plus the amounts of its permitted loans. After the establishment of the foreign invested enterprise, the investors can seek regulatory approval to increase its registered capital and the total investment amounts, and upon approval, there will be increases in both amounts. There is a specific statutory guideline relating to the ratio of a foreign invested enterprise’s registered capital amount over total investment amount, and all foreign investment regulatory authorities in China must follow the ratio guideline when exercising their approval authority. However, there is no uniform statutory guideline applicable to all regulatory authorities regarding whether to approve the establishment of a new foreign invested enterprise or to approve any increase in the registered capital and total investment of an existing foreign invested enterprise. In practice, authorities consider factors such as overall governmental policies relating to the specific industry and demands in a particular industry and the approval usually takes one to three months depending on the locations of the foreign invested enterprises. The amounts of the approved total investments of Chongqing Daqo and Nanjing Daqo are $286.0 million and $48.9 million, respectively. The amount of the registered capital of Chongqing Daqo is $96.0 million, $69.6 million of which has been contributed by Daqo Cayman as the sole investor. The amount of the registered capital of Nanjing Daqo is $20.0 million, which has been contributed by Daqo Cayman as the sole investor. As of December 31, 2010, the amount of loans that Chongqing Daqo was permitted to borrow from Daqo Cayman cannot exceed $125.0 million and that for Nanjing Daqo cannot exceed $28.9 million. We may not make loans to Chongqing Daqo and Nanjing Daqo in excess of the maximum amounts permissible unless we obtain government approval to increase their total investment amounts. In addition, any increases of our capital contributions to our Chinese subsidiaries beyond the previously authorized amount must be approved by the MOFCOM and the National Development and Reform Commission or their respective local counterparts. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these approvals on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to obtain such approvals, our ability to make equity contributions or provide loans to our Chinese subsidiaries or to fund their operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our Chinese subsidiaries’ liquidity and their ability to fund their working capital and expansion projects and meet their obligations and commitments. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our wholly owned operating subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to borrow money or pay dividends. As a holding company, we rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our Chinese subsidiaries for our cash requirements, including funds necessary to service any debt we may incur. If our Chinese subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may 26 Table of Contents restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Furthermore, relevant Chinese laws and regulations permit payments of dividends by Chinese subsidiaries only out of their retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Under Chinese laws and regulations, each of our Chinese subsidiaries is required to set aside a portion of its net income each year to fund a statutory surplus reserve until such reserve reaches 50% of its registered capital. This reserve is not distributable as dividends. As a result, our Chinese subsidiaries are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net assets to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances. Limitation on the ability of our Chinese subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to borrow money outside of China or pay dividends to holders of our ADSs. Also see “—Risks Relating to Our Business—The dividends we receive from our Chinese subsidiaries and our global income may be subject to Chinese tax under the EIT Law, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations; our foreign ADS holders will be subject to a Chinese withholding tax upon the dividends payable by us, if we are classified as a Chinese “resident enterprise.” Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, is based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China. The PRC government allowed the Renminbi to appreciate by more than 20% against the U.S. dollar between July 2005 and July 2008. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation halted and the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. Since June 2010, the PRC government has allowed the Renminbi to appreciate slowly against the U.S. dollar again. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar in the future. As a consequence, the Renminbi has fluctuated sharply since July 2008 against other freely traded currencies, in tandem with the U.S. dollar. For example, the Renminbi appreciated approximately 27% against the Euro between July 2008 and November 2008. In June 2010, the PRC government announced that it would increase Renminbi exchange rate flexibility. However, it remains unclear how this policy will be implemented. There remains significant international pressure on the Chinese government to adopt a substantial liberalization of its currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. Significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. In addition, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would increase our production costs. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Restrictions on currency exchange under Chinese laws may limit our ability to convert cash derived from our operating activities into foreign currencies and may materially and adversely affect the value of your investment. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. Under the relevant foreign exchange restrictions in China, conversion of the Renminbi is permitted, without the need for SAFE approval, for “current account” transactions, which includes dividends, trade, and service-related foreign exchange transactions. Conversion of the Renminbi for “capital account” transactions, which includes foreign direct investment and loans, is still subject to significant limitations and requires approvals from and registration with SAFE and other Chinese regulatory authorities. We cannot assure you that SAFE or other Chinese governmental authorities will not further limit, or eliminate, our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange in China may limit our ability to convert cash derived from our operating activities into foreign currencies to fund expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. If the foreign exchange restrictions in China prevent us from obtaining U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies as required, we may not be able to pay dividends in U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. Furthermore, foreign exchange control in respect of the capital account transactions could affect our Chinese subsidiaries’ ability to obtain foreign exchange or conversion into RMB through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. 27 Table of Contents We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of swine flu, avian flu, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS or other epidemics or outbreaks. China reported a number of cases of SARS in April 2004. In 2006, 2007 and 2008, there were reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. In April 2009, an outbreak of swine flu occurred in Mexico and the United States and human cases of swine flu were discovered in China and Hong Kong. Any prolonged occurrence or recurrence of swine flu, avian flu, SARS or other adverse public health developments in China or any of the major markets in which we do business may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. These could include our ability to deliver our products within or outside of China, as well as temporary closure of our manufacturing facilities, or our customers’ facilities, leading to delayed or cancelled orders. Any severe travel or shipment restrictions and closures would severely disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our ADSs The trading prices of our ADSs are likely to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The closing trading prices of our ADSs ranged from $9.99 to $14.61 in 2010 and are likely to remain volatile in the future and could fluctuate widely due to factors beyond our control. This may happen because of broad market and industry factors, like the performance and fluctuation of the market prices of other companies with business operations located mainly in China that have listed their securities in the United States. A number of China-based companies, including many solar energy companies, have listed or are in the process of listing their securities on U.S. stock market. The securities of some of these companies have experienced significant volatility, including price declines in connection with their initial public offerings. The trading performances of these Chinese companies’ securities after their offerings may affect the attitudes of investors toward Chinese companies listed in the United States in general and consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our ADSs may be highly volatile for factors specific to our own operations, including the following: • variations in our revenues, earnings and cash flow; • announcements of our new investments, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, or joint ventures; • announcements of new services and expansions by us or our competitors; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • additions or departures of key personnel; • release of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding equity securities or sales of additional equity securities; • potential litigation or regulatory investigations; and • fluctuations in market prices of our products. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our ADSs will trade. We cannot assure you that these factors will not occur in the future. 28 Table of Contents The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our ADSs could adversely affect their market price. Sales of substantial amounts of our ADSs in the public market or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through equity offerings in the future. Our ADSs are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, subject to the restrictions in Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act and the applicable lock-up agreements. In addition, market sales of securities held by our significant shareholders or any other shareholder or the availability of these securities for future sale may adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. Our Third Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our Third Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association contain provisions to limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through U.S. courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. We are an exempted company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, as amended from time to time, the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands (2010 Revision) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take actions against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from the common law of England, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not binding, on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. Some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a company incorporated in the United States. 29 Table of Contents Certain judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable. We are a Cayman Islands company and all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the China. In addition, a majority of our current directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. Substantially all of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the United States federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited by the terms of the deposit agreement, and you may not be able to exercise your right to vote your ordinary shares. As a holder of our ADSs, you will only be able to exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under the deposit agreement, you must vote by giving voting instructions to the depositary. Upon receipt of your voting instructions, the depositary will vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. You will not be able to directly exercise your right to vote with respect to the underlying shares unless you withdraw the shares. Under our Third Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is seven days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient advance notice to withdraw the shares underlying your ADSs to allow you to vote with respect to any specific matter. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and will arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for their manner of carrying out your voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may have no legal remedy if the shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. The depositary for our ADSs will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, except in limited circumstances, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, if you do not vote, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings unless: • we have failed to timely provide the depositary with notice of meeting and related voting materials; • we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; • we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; • a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders; or • the voting at the meeting is to be made by a show of hands. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, except under the circumstances described above. This may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. 30 Table of Contents You may not receive dividends or other distributions on our ordinary shares and you may not receive any value for them, if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on ordinary shares underlying our ADSs, after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed under an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary may also determine that it is not feasible to distribute certain property through the mail. Additionally, the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may determine not to distribute such property. We have no obligation to register under U.S. securities laws any ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities received through such distributions. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may cause a material decline in the value of our ADSs. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings. We may, from time to time, distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs, or are registered under the provisions of the Securities Act. The depositary may, but is not required to, attempt to sell these undistributed rights to third parities, and may allow the rights to lapse. We may be unable to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to these rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have a registration statement declared effective. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books from time to time for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our share register or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. The Company may be classified as a passive foreign investment company or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could subject U.S. investors in our ADSs or ordinary shares to adverse tax consequences. A non-United States corporation, such as our company, will be classified as a “passive foreign investment company” (or a “PFIC”), for United States federal income tax purposes, for any taxable year if either (i) 75% or more of its gross income consists of certain types of “passive” income or (ii) 50% or more of the value of its assets (determined on the basis of a quarterly average) produce or are held for the production of passive income. Based on the price of our ADSs and ordinary shares and the composition of our income and assets, we do not believe that we were a PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes, for the taxable year ended 31 Table of Contents December 31, 2010. Although we do not currently expect that our assets or activities will change in a manner that would cause us to become a PFIC for our current taxable year or the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance our business plans will not change in a manner that will affect our PFIC status. In addition, because the value of our assets for purposes of the PFIC test will generally be determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares, fluctuations in the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares may cause us to become a PFIC for the current taxable year or future taxable years. Because there are uncertainties in the application of the relevant rules and PFIC status is a fact-intensive determination made on an annual basis, no assurance can be given that we are not or will not become classified as a PFIC. If we were to be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year, a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations”) may incur significantly increased United States income tax on gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of the ADSs or ordinary shares and on the receipt of distributions on the ADSs or ordinary shares to the extent such gain or distribution is treated as an “excess distribution” under the United States federal income tax rules. Further, if we are classified as a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. Holder holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, we generally will continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which such U.S. Holder holds our ADSs or ordinary shares. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. “Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” 