ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSAdverse conditions in the automotive industry have had, and may in the future have, adverse effects on our results of operations.Much of our business depends on, and is directly affected by, the global automobile industry. Sales to customers in the automotive industry accounted for approximately 61% of our total 2013 net revenue. Globally, automakers and their suppliers continue to experience significant difficulties from a weakened economy and tightened credit markets, and many are still recovering from financial distress experienced in recent years. Adverse developments like those we have seen in recent years in the automotive industry, including but not limited to declines in demand, customer bankruptcies, and increased demands on us for pricing decreases, would have adverse effects on our results of operations and could impact our liquidity position and our ability to meet restrictive debt covenants. In addition, these same conditions could adversely impact certain of our vendors’ financial solvency, resulting in potential liabilities or additional costs to us to ensure uninterrupted supply to our customers. Continued fundamental changes in the industries in which we operate have had, and could continue to have, adverse effects on our businesses.Our products are sold to automobile manufacturers, manufacturers of commercial and residential heating, ventilation, and air conditioning ("HVAC") systems, and manufacturers in the refrigeration, lighting, aerospace, telecommunications, power supply and generation, and industrial markets, among others. These are global industries, and they are experiencing various degrees of growth and consolidation. Customers in these industries are located in every major geographic market. As a result, our customers are affected by changes in global and regional economic conditions, as well as by labor relations issues, regulatory requirements, trade agreements, and other factors. These factors, in turn, affect overall demand and prices for our products sold to these industries. Changes in the industries in which we operate may be more detrimental to us in comparison to our competitors due to our significant levels of debt. In addition, many of our products are platform-specific—for example, sensors are designed for certain of our HVAC manufacturer customers according to specifications to fit a particular model. Our success may, to a certain degree, be connected with the success or failure of one or more of the industries to which we sell products, either in general or with respect to one or more of the platforms or systems for which our products are designed.Continued pricing and other pressures from our customers may adversely affect our business.Many of our customers, including automotive manufacturers and other industrial and commercial original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), have policies of seeking price reductions each year. Recently, many of the industries in which our products are sold have suffered from unfavorable pricing pressures in North America and Europe, which in turn has led manufacturers to seek price reductions from their suppliers. Our significant reliance on these industries subjects us to these and other similar pressures. If we are not able to offset continued price reductions through improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, those price reductions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our customers occasionally require engineering, design, or production changes. In some circumstances, we may be unable to cover the costs of these changes with price increases. Additionally, as our customers grow larger, they may increasingly require us to provide them with our products on an exclusive basis, which could cause an increase in the number of products we must carry and, consequently, increase our inventory levels and working capital requirements. Certain of our customers, particularly domestic automotive manufacturers, are increasingly requiring their suppliers to agree to their standard purchasing terms without deviation as a condition to engage in future business transactions. As a result, we may find it difficult to enter into agreements with such customers on terms that are commercially reasonable to us.If we fail to maintain our existing relationships with our customers, our exposure to industry and customer-specific demand fluctuations could increase, and our revenue may decline as a result.Our customers consist of a diverse base of OEMs across the automotive, HVAC, appliance, industrial, aerospace, defense, and other end-markets in various geographic locations throughout the world. In the event that we fail to maintain our relationships with our existing customers, and such failure increases our dependence on particular markets or customers, then our revenue would be exposed to greater industry and customer-specific demand fluctuations and could decline as a result.Our businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive, and competitive pressures could require us to lower our prices or result in reduced demand for our products.Our businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive, and we compete on the basis of product performance, quality, service, and/or price across the industries and markets we serve. A significant element of our competitive strategy is to manufacture high-quality products at low-cost, particularly in markets where low-cost country-based suppliers, primarily China with respect to the controls business, have entered our markets, or increased their sales in our markets, by delivering products at 16Table of Contents low cost to local OEMs. Some of our competitors have greater sales, assets, and financial resources than we do. In addition, many of our competitors in the automotive sensors market are controlled by major OEMs or suppliers, limiting our access to certain customers. Many of our customers also rely on us as their sole source of supply for many of the products that we have historically sold to them. These customers may choose to develop relationships with additional suppliers or elect to produce some or all of these products internally, in each case in order to reduce risk of delivery interruptions or as a means of extracting pricing concessions. Certain of our customers currently have, or may develop in the future, the capability of internally producing the products that we sell to them and may compete with us with respect to those and other products and with respect to other customers. For example, Robert Bosch Gmbh, who is one of our largest customers with respect to our control products, also competes with us with respect to certain of our sensors products. Competitive pressures such as these, and others, could affect prices or customer demand for our products, negatively impacting our profit margins and/or resulting in a loss of market share.We are subject to risks associated with our non-U.S. operations, which could adversely impact the reported results of operations from our international businesses.Our subsidiaries outside of the U.S. generated approximately 64% of our 2013 net revenue, and we expect sales from non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our total sales. International sales and operations are subject to changes in local government regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, taxation, exchange controls, and repatriation of earnings.A significant portion of our revenue, expenses, receivables, and payables are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, in particular the Euro. We are, therefore, subject to foreign currency risks and foreign exchange exposure. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and could affect our operating results. For financial reporting purposes, the functional currency that we use is the U.S. dollar because of the significant influence of the U.S. dollar on our operations. In certain instances, we enter into transactions that are denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar. At the date that the transaction is recognized, each asset, liability, revenue, expense, gain, or loss arising from the transaction is measured and recorded in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at that date. At each balance sheet date, recorded monetary balances denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar are adjusted to the U.S. dollar using the exchange rate at the balance sheet date, with gains or losses recorded in Other, net. During times of a weakening U.S. dollar, our reported international sales and earnings will increase because the non-U.S. currency will translate into more U.S. dollars. Conversely, during times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported international sales and earnings will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer U.S. dollars.There are other risks that are inherent in our non-U.S. operations, including the potential for changes in socio-economic conditions and/or monetary and fiscal policies, intellectual property protection difficulties and disputes, the settlement of legal disputes through certain foreign legal systems, the collection of receivables, exposure to possible expropriation or other government actions, unsettled political conditions, and possible terrorist attacks. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our non-U.S. operations and, therefore, on our business and results of operations.Our ability to operate our business effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel.Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies effectively depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. Our management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. These individuals possess sales, marketing, engineering, manufacturing, financial, and administrative skills that are critical to the operation of our business. In addition, the market for engineers and other individuals with the required technical expertise to succeed in our business is highly competitive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel to replace or succeed key employees should the need arise. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Integration of acquired companies, and any future acquisitions and joint ventures or dispositions, may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs, or liabilities, and we may not realize all of the anticipated operating synergies and cost savings from acquisitions.We have grown, and in the future we intend to continue to grow, by making acquisitions or entering into joint ventures or similar arrangements. There can be no assurance that our acquisitions will perform as expected in the future. Any future acquisitions will depend on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, to negotiate acceptable terms for their acquisition, and to finance those acquisitions. We will also face competition for suitable acquisition candidates that may increase our costs. In addition, acquisitions or investments require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from our other operations. Furthermore, acquisitions of businesses or facilities entail a number of additional risks, including: 17Table of Contents •problems with effective integration of operations;•the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition customer, supplier, and employee relationships;•increased operating costs; and•exposure to unanticipated liabilities.Subject to the terms of our indebtedness, we may finance future acquisitions with cash from operations, additional indebtedness, and/or by issuing additional equity securities. In addition, we could face financial risks associated with incurring additional indebtedness such as reducing our liquidity, obtaining access to financing markets, and increasing the amount of debt service. The availability of debt to finance future acquisitions may be restricted, and our ability to make future acquisitions may be limited.We may also seek to restructure our business in the future by disposing of certain of our assets. There can be no assurance that any restructuring of our business will not adversely affect our financial position, leverage, or results of operations. In addition, any significant restructuring of our business will require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from our operations.There can be no assurance that any anticipated synergies or cost savings generated through acquisitions will be achieved or that they will be achieved in our estimated time frame. We may not be able to successfully integrate and streamline overlapping functions from future acquisitions, and integration may be more costly to accomplish than we expect. In addition, we could encounter difficulties in managing our combined company due to its increased size and scope.We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA") and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws.The FCPA and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these laws. Many of the countries in which we operate have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our compliance program, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or negligent acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, may have a negative effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and reputation.In 2010, an internal investigation was conducted under the direction of the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors to determine whether any laws, including the FCPA, may have been violated in connection with a certain business relationship entered into by one of our operating subsidiaries involving business in China. We believe the amount of payments and the business involved was immaterial. We discontinued the specific business relationship, and our investigation has not identified any other suspect transactions. We contacted the U.S. Department of Justice (the "DOJ") and the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") to make a voluntary disclosure of the possible violations, the investigation, and the initial findings. We have been fully cooperating with their review. During 2012, the DOJ informed us that it has closed its inquiry into the matter but indicated that it could reopen its inquiry in the future in the event it were to receive additional information or evidence. We have not received an update from the SEC concerning the status of its inquiry. The FCPA (and related statutes and regulations) provides for potential monetary penalties, criminal and civil sanctions, and other remedies. We are unable to estimate the potential penalties and/or sanctions, if any, that might be assessed.We may not be able to keep up with technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry.The sensors and controls markets are characterized to a varying degree by changing technology, evolving industry standards, the introduction of new products, and changing customer demands. Changes in competitive technologies may render certain of our products less attractive or obsolete, and if we cannot anticipate changes in technology and develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis, our ability to remain competitive may be negatively impacted. The success of new products depends on their initial and continued acceptance by our customers. Our businesses are affected by varying degrees of technological change that result in unpredictable product transitions, shortened lifecycles, and increased importance of being first to market with new products. We may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production, and/or marketing of new products, which may negatively impact our operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to bring new products to market.As part of past cost containment programs designed to align our operations with economic conditions, we have had to make in the past, and may have to make again in the future, adjustments to both the scope and breadth of our overall research 18Table of Contents and development program. Such actions may result in choices that could adversely affect our ability either to take advantage of emerging trends, to develop new technologies, or to make sufficient advancements to existing technologies. We may not be able to timely and efficiently increase our production capacity in order to meet future growth in the demand for our products.A substantial increase in demand for our products may require us to expand our production capacity, which could require us to identify and acquire or lease additional manufacturing facilities. While we believe that suitable additional or substitute facilities will be available as required, if we are unable to acquire, integrate, and move into production the facilities, equipment, and personnel necessary to meet such increase in demand, our customer relationships, results of operations, and financial performance may suffer materially. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property, including our proprietary technology and the Sensata, Klixon®, Airpax®, and Dimensions™ brands.Our success depends to some degree on our ability to protect our intellectual property and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may manufacture and market products similar to ours. We have sought, and may continue from time to time to seek, to protect our intellectual property rights through litigation. These efforts might be unsuccessful in protecting such rights and may adversely affect our financial performance and distract our management. We also cannot be sure that competitors will not challenge, invalidate, or void the application of any existing or future patents that we receive or license. In addition, patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using, or selling products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. It is also possible that third parties may have, or acquire licenses for, other technology or designs that we may use or wish to use, so that we may need to acquire licenses to, or contest the validity of, such patents or trademarks of third parties. Such licenses may not be made available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and we may not prevail in contesting the validity of third-party rights.In addition to patent and trademark protection, we also protect trade secrets, know-how, and other proprietary information, as well as brand names such as the Sensata, Klixon®, Airpax®, and Dimensions™ brands, under which we market many of the products sold in our controls business, against unauthorized use by others or disclosure by persons who have access to them, such as our employees, through contractual arrangements. These arrangements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how, or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation, or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how, or other proprietary information. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability of confidentiality agreements, and we cannot be sure that our trade secrets and proprietary technology will not otherwise become known, or that our competitors will not independently develop our trade secrets and proprietary technology. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, our sales could be materially adversely affected.We may be subject to claims that our products or processes infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages, modify our products or processes, or prevent us from selling our products.Third parties may claim that our processes and products infringe on their intellectual property rights. Whether or not these claims have merit, we may be subject to costly and time consuming legal proceedings, and this could divert our management’s attention from operating our business. If these claims are successfully asserted against us, we could be required to pay substantial damages and could be prevented from selling some or all of our products. We may also be obligated to indemnify our business partners or customers in any such litigation. Furthermore, we may need to obtain licenses from these third parties or substantially re-engineer or rename our products in order to avoid infringement. In addition, we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to re-engineer or rename our products successfully. If we are prevented from selling some or all of our products, our sales could be materially adversely affected.We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability, warranty, and recall claims that may be brought against us.We have been, and may continue to be, exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected, or the use of our products results, or are alleged to result, in death, bodily injury, and/or property damage. Accordingly, we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of the underlying end product, particularly if the defect or the alleged defect relates to product safety. Depending on the terms under which we supply products, an OEM may hold us responsible for some or all of the repair or replacement costs of these products under warranties when the product supplied did not perform as represented. In addition, 19Table of Contents a product recall could generate substantial negative publicity about our business and interfere with our manufacturing plans and product delivery obligations as we seek to repair affected products. Our costs associated with product liability, warranty, and recall claims could be material.Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our business, and we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service obligations.As of December 31, 2013, we had $1,726.3 million of gross outstanding indebtedness, including $474.1 million of indebtedness under our existing term loan facility (the "Term Loan Facility"), $700.0 million of outstanding 6.5% senior notes issued under an indenture dated as of May 12, 2011 (the “6.5% Senior Notes”), $500.0 million of outstanding 4.875% senior notes issued under an indenture dated as of April 17, 2013 (the "4.875% Senior Notes"), and $52.2 million of capital lease and other financing obligations. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could:•make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations;•restrict us from making strategic acquisitions;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and future business opportunities, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage if our competitors are not as highly-leveraged;•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; or•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness if we do not maintain specified financial ratios or are not able to refinance our indebtedness as it comes due, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows for other purposes.In addition, our senior secured credit facilities (the "Senior Secured Credit Facilities"), under which the Term Loan Facility and a $250.0 million revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility") were issued, permit us to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. As of December 31, 2013, we had $245.0 million available to us under the Revolving Credit Facility. If we increase our indebtedness by borrowing under the Revolving Credit Facility or incur other new indebtedness, the risks described above would increase.Labor disruptions or increased labor costs could adversely affect our business.As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately 12,100 employees, of whom approximately 8% were located in the United States, none of whom were covered by collective bargaining agreements. In various countries, local law requires our participation in works councils. In August 2012, direct labor employees of our South Korean subsidiary organized under the auspices of the Korean Metal Workers' Union. Pursuant to an agreement dated October 17, 2012, our subsidiary and the union entered into a voluntary separation agreement for the employees. As of December 31, 2013, our South Korean subsidiary had no union represented workers. A material labor disruption or work stoppage at one or more of our manufacturing facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, work stoppages occur relatively frequently in the industries in which many of our customers operate, such as the automotive industry. If one or more of our larger customers were to experience a material work stoppage for any reason, that customer may halt or limit the purchase of our products. This could cause us to shut down production facilities relating to those products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.The loss of one or more of our suppliers of manufactured components or raw materials may interrupt our supplies and materially harm our business.We purchase raw materials and components from a wide range of suppliers. For certain raw materials or components, however, we are dependent on sole source suppliers. We generally obtain these raw materials and components through individual purchase orders executed on an as needed basis, rather than pursuant to long-term supply agreements. Our ability to meet our customers’ needs depends on our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of raw materials and finished products from our third-party suppliers and manufacturers. Our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations could be adversely affected if any of our principal third-party suppliers or manufacturers experience production problems, lack of capacity, or transportation disruptions, or otherwise determine to cease producing such raw materials or components. The magnitude of this risk depends upon the timing of the changes, the materials or products that the third-party manufacturers provide, and the volume of the production. We may not be able to make arrangements for transition supply and qualifying 20Table of Contents replacement suppliers in both a cost-effective and timely manner. Our dependence on third parties for raw materials and components subjects us to the risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products. Quality failures by our third-party manufacturers or changes in their financial or business condition that affect their production could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby materially harm our business.Non-performance by our suppliers may adversely affect our operations.Because we purchase various types of raw materials and component parts from suppliers, we may be materially and adversely affected by the failure of those suppliers to perform as expected. This non-performance may consist of delivery delays or failures caused by production issues or delivery of non-conforming products. The risk of non-performance may also result from the insolvency or bankruptcy of one or more of our suppliers.Our efforts to protect against and to minimize these risks may not always be effective. We may occasionally seek to engage new suppliers with which we have little or no experience. The use of new suppliers can pose technical, quality, and other risks.Increasing costs for, or limitations on the supply of or access to, manufactured components and raw materials may adversely affect our business and results of operations.We use a broad range of manufactured components, subassemblies, and raw materials in the manufacture of our products, including silver, gold, platinum, palladium, copper, aluminum, nickel, and certain rare earth metals, which may experience significant volatility in their prices and availability. We have entered into hedge arrangements in an attempt to minimize commodity pricing volatility and may continue to do so from time to time in the future. Such hedges might not be economically successful. In addition, these hedges do not qualify as accounting hedges in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Accordingly, the change in fair value of these hedges is recognized in earnings immediately, which could cause volatility in our results of operations from quarter to quarter. The availability and price of raw materials and manufactured components may be subject to change due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, global economic or political events including strikes, terrorist actions, and war, suppliers' allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, changes in exchange rates, and prevailing price levels. For example, our Magnetic Speed and Position business, as well as the newly acquired Wabash Technologies, utilize magnets containing certain rare earth metals in their products. A large majority of the world's production of rare earth metals is in China. If China limits the export of such materials, there could be a world-wide shortage, leading to a lack of supply and higher prices for magnets made using these materials. It is generally difficult to pass increased prices for manufactured components and raw materials through to our customers in the form of price increases. Therefore, a significant increase in the price or a decrease in the availability of these items could materially increase our operating costs and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.We depend on third parties for certain transportation, warehousing, and logistics services.We rely primarily on third parties for transportation of the products we manufacture. In particular, a significant portion of the goods we manufacture are transported to different countries, requiring sophisticated warehousing, logistics, and other resources. If any of the countries from which we transport products were to suffer delays in exporting manufactured goods, or if any of our third-party transportation providers were to fail to deliver the goods we manufacture in a timely manner, we may be unable to sell those products at full value, or at all. Similarly, if any of our raw materials could not be delivered to us in a timely manner, we may be unable to manufacture our products in response to customer demand. A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could harm our financial condition and operating results.If one of our manufacturing facilities was to be shut down unexpectedly, or certain of our manufacturing operations within an otherwise operational facility were to cease production unexpectedly, our revenue and profit margins would be adversely affected. Such a disruption could be caused by a number of different events, including:•maintenance outages;•prolonged power failures;•an equipment failure;•fires, floods, earthquakes or other catastrophes;•potential unrest or terrorist activity;•labor difficulties; or 21Table of Contents •other operational problems.In addition, a majority of our products are manufactured at facilities located outside the United States. Serving a global customer base requires that we place more production in emerging markets, such as China, Mexico, Bulgaria, and Malaysia, to capitalize on market opportunities and maintain our low-cost position. Our international production facilities and operations could be particularly vulnerable to the effects of a natural disaster, labor strike, war, political unrest, terrorist activity, or public health concerns, especially in emerging countries that are not well-equipped to handle such occurrences. Our manufacturing facilities abroad may also be more susceptible to changes in laws and policies in host countries and economic and political upheaval than our facilities located in the United States. If any of these or other events were to result in a material disruption of our manufacturing operations, our ability to meet our production capacity targets and satisfy customer requirements may be impaired.We may not realize all of the revenue or achieve anticipated gross margins from products subject to existing purchase orders or for which we are currently engaged in development.Our ability to generate revenue from products subject to customer awards is subject to a number of important risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, including the number of products our customers will actually produce, as well as the timing of such production. Many of our customer contracts provide for supplying a certain share of the customer’s requirements for a particular application or platform, rather than for manufacturing a specific quantity of products. In some cases we have no remedy if a customer chooses to purchase less than we expect. In cases where customers do make minimum volume commitments to us, our remedy for their failure to meet those minimum volumes is limited to increased pricing on those products that the customer does purchase from us or renegotiating other contract terms. There is no assurance that such price increases or new terms will offset a shortfall in expected revenue. In addition, some of our customers may have the right to discontinue a program or replace us with another supplier under certain circumstances. As a result, products for which we are currently incurring development expenses may not be manufactured by customers at all, or may be manufactured in smaller amounts than currently anticipated. Therefore, our anticipated future revenue from products relating to existing customer awards or product development relationships may not result in firm orders from customers for the originally contracted amount. We also incur capital expenditures and other costs, and price our products, based on estimated production volumes. If actual production volumes were significantly lower than estimated, our anticipated revenue and gross margin from those new products would be adversely affected. We cannot predict the ultimate demand for our customers’ products, nor can we predict the extent to which we would be able to pass through unanticipated per-unit cost increases to our customers.Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”) may be costly with no assurance of maintaining effective internal controls over financial reporting.We experience significant operating expenses in connection with maintaining our internal control environment and Section 404 compliance activities. In addition, if we are unable to efficiently maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, our operations may suffer, and we may be unable to obtain an attestation on internal controls from our independent registered public accounting firm when required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Export of our products are subject to various export control regulations and may require a license from either the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Department of Commerce, or the U.S. Department of the Treasury.We must comply with the United States Export Administration Regulations, International Traffic in Arms Regulation ("ITAR"), and the sanctions, regulations, and embargoes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). Certain of our products that have military applications are on the munitions list of the ITAR and require an individual validated license in order to be exported to certain jurisdictions. Any changes in export regulations may further restrict the export of our products, and we may cease to be able to procure export licenses for our products under existing regulations. For example, changes in the OFAC administrated embargo on trade with Iran have eliminated exceptions that may have previously permitted direct or indirect sales to that country. This area remains fluid in terms of regulatory developments. Should we need an export license, the length of time required by the licensing process can vary, potentially delaying the shipment of products and the recognition of the corresponding revenue. Any restriction on the export of a significant product line or a significant amount of our products could cause a significant reduction in revenue. Violations of these various laws and regulations could expose us to fines or other restrictions on our ability to export products.We may be adversely affected by environmental, safety, and governmental regulations or concerns.We are subject to the requirements of environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations in the United States and other countries, as well as product performance standards established by quasi governmental and industrial standards organizations. We cannot assure you that we have been, and will continue to be, in compliance with all of these 22Table of Contents requirements on account of circumstances or events that have occurred or exist but that we are unaware of, or that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with these requirements in excess of amounts we have reserved. In addition, these requirements are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. These requirements may change in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act will require us to report on "conflict minerals" used in our products and the due diligence plan we put in place to track whether such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. The implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in certain of our products. We have made, and may be required in the future to make, capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to pending litigation raising various environmental and human health and safety claims. We cannot assure you that our costs to defend and/or settle these claims will not be material.Changes in existing environmental and/or safety laws, regulations, and programs could reduce demand for environmental and safety-related products, which could cause our revenue to decline.A significant amount of our business is generated either directly or indirectly as a result of existing U.S. federal and state laws, regulations, and programs related to environmental protection, fuel economy, energy efficiency, and safety regulation. Accordingly, a relaxation or repeal of these laws and regulations, or changes in governmental policies regarding the funding, implementation, or enforcement of these programs, could result in a decline in demand for environmental and safety products, which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue.Taxing authorities could challenge our historical and future tax positions or our allocation of taxable income among our subsidiaries, or tax laws to which we are subject could change in a manner adverse to us.We are a Dutch public limited liability company that operates through various subsidiaries in a number of countries throughout the world. Consequently, we are subject to tax laws, treaties, and regulations in the countries in which we operate, and these laws and treaties are subject to interpretation. We have taken, and will continue to take, tax positions based on our interpretation of such tax laws. There can be no assurance that a taxing authority will not have a different interpretation of applicable law and assess us with additional taxes. Should we be assessed with additional taxes, this may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and/or financial condition.We conduct operations through manufacturing and distribution subsidiaries in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world. Our transfer pricing arrangements are not binding on applicable tax authorities, and no official authority has made a determination as to whether or not we are operating in compliance with its transfer pricing laws. Our transfer pricing methodology is based on economic studies. The price charged for products, services, and financing among our companies, or the royalty rates and other amounts paid for intellectual property rights, could be challenged by the various tax authorities, resulting in additional tax liability, interest, and/or penalties.Tax laws are subject to change in the various countries in which we operate. Such future changes could be unfavorable and result in an increased tax burden to us.We have significant unfunded benefit obligations with respect to our defined benefit and other post-retirement benefit plans.We provide various retirement plans for employees, including defined benefit, defined contribution, and retiree healthcare benefit plans. As of December 31, 2013, we had recognized a net accrued benefit liability of approximately $16.0 million, representing the unfunded benefit obligations of the defined benefit and retiree healthcare plans.We have previously experienced declines in interest rates and pension asset values. Future declines in interest rates or the market values of the securities held by the plans, or certain other changes, could materially deteriorate the funded status of our plans and affect the level and timing of required contributions in 2014 and beyond. Additionally, a material deterioration in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase pension expenses and reduce our profitability. We fund certain of our benefit obligations on a pay-as-you-go basis; accordingly, the related plans have no assets. As a result, we are subject to increased cash outlays and costs due to, among other factors, rising healthcare costs. Increases in the expected cost of health care beyond current assumptions could increase actuarially determined liabilities and related expenses along with future cash outlays. Our assumptions used to calculate pension and healthcare obligations as of the annual measurement date directly impact the expense to be recognized in future periods. While our management believes that these assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in these assumptions may materially affect our pension and healthcare obligations and the amount and timing of future expenses related to these plans. 23Table of Contents We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, and we may be required to recognize goodwill or intangible asset impairments, which would reduce our earnings.We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, including tradenames. Goodwill and other net identifiable intangible assets totaled approximately $2.3 billion as of December 31, 2013, or 65% of our total assets. Goodwill, which represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of businesses acquired, was approximately $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2013, or 50% of our total assets. Goodwill and other net identifiable intangible assets were recorded at fair value on the respective dates of acquisition. Impairment of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in laws or regulations, unexpected significant or planned changes in use of assets, and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge that is included in operating income, which may impact our ability to raise capital. No impairment charges were required during the past three fiscal years. Should certain assumptions used in the development of the fair value of our reporting units change, we may be required to recognize goodwill or other intangible asset impairments.Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or future borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities or from other sources may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service and repay our indebtedness when it becomes due, including the Term Loan Facility, the 6.5% Senior Notes, and the 4.875% Senior Notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs, including capital expenditure requirements.We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain enough capital to service our debt and fund our planned capital expenditures and business plan. If we complete additional acquisitions, our debt service requirements could also increase. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity investments, or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments, and alliances, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Additionally, we may not be able to effect such actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our credit arrangements, including non-compliance attributable to events beyond our control, could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition.The Revolving Credit Facility requires us to maintain a senior secured net leverage ratio not to exceed 5.0:1.0 at the conclusion of certain periods when outstanding loans and letters of credit that are not cash collateralized for the full face amount thereof exceed 10% of the commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility. In addition, Sensata Technologies B.V. and its restricted subsidiaries are required to satisfy this covenant, on a pro forma basis, in connection with any new borrowings (including any letter of credit issuances) under the Revolving Credit Facility as of the time of such borrowings. As of December 31, 2013, we were not subject to the financial covenant. Additionally, the Revolving Credit Facility and the indentures governing the 6.5% Senior Notes and 4.875% Senior Notes require us to comply with various operational and other covenants.If we experienced an event of default under any of our debt instruments that was not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the debt to become due and payable immediately, which, in turn, would result in cross defaults under our other debt instruments. Our assets and cash flows may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings if accelerated upon an event of default.If, when required, we are unable to repay, refinance, or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, our credit agreement, or if a default otherwise occurs, the lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities could: elect to terminate their commitments thereunder; cease making further loans; declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable; institute foreclosure proceedings against those assets that secure the borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities; and prevent us from making payments on the 6.5% Senior Notes and 4.875% Senior Notes. Any such actions could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation, and we might not be able to repay our obligations in such an event.In the future, we may not secure financing necessary to operate and grow our business or to exploit opportunities.Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, some of which are outside our control, including the future development of the markets in which we participate. We may need to raise additional funds to support expansion, develop new or enhanced products, respond to competitive pressures, acquire complementary businesses or technologies, or take advantage of unanticipated opportunities. If our capital resources are not sufficient to satisfy our liquidity needs, we may seek to sell additional debt or equity securities or obtain other debt financing. The incurrence of debt would 24Table of Contents result in increased expenses and could include covenants that would further restrict our operations. We may not be able to obtain additional financing, if required, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We have reported significant net losses in prior years and may not sustain recently achieved profitability in the foreseeable future.We incurred a significant amount of indebtedness in connection with prior acquisitions, and, as a result, our interest expense has been substantial. Due, in part, to this significant interest expense and the amortization of intangible assets related to these acquisitions, we reported a net loss in 2009. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013, we reported net income of $130.1 million, $6.5 million, $177.5 million, and $188.1 million, respectively. Due to the significant interest expense associated with the remaining indebtedness, the continued amortization of intangible assets, and the risk of revenue volatility arising from changes in global economic conditions, industry-specific pricing pressures, and the cyclical nature of the industries in which our customers operate, each as described elsewhere in these Risk Factors, we cannot assure you that we will sustain recently achieved profitability in the foreseeable future.We are a Netherlands public limited liability company, and it may be difficult for shareholders to obtain or enforce judgments against us in the United States.We are incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands, and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, although we have appointed an agent for service of process in the U.S., it may be difficult or impossible for United States investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or to realize in the United States on any judgment against us, including for civil liabilities under the United States securities laws. Therefore, any judgment obtained in any United States federal or state court against us may have to be enforced in the courts of the Netherlands, or such other foreign jurisdiction, as applicable. Because there is no treaty or other applicable convention between the United States and the Netherlands with respect to the recognition and enforcement of legal judgments regarding civil or commercial matters, a judgment rendered by any United States federal or state court will not be enforced by the courts of the Netherlands unless the underlying claim is relitigated before a Dutch court. Under current practice, however, a Dutch court will generally grant the same judgment without a review of the merits of the underlying claim (i) if that judgment resulted from legal proceedings compatible with Dutch notions of due process, (ii) if that judgment does not contravene public policy of the Netherlands, and (iii) if the jurisdiction of the United States federal or state court has been based on internationally accepted principles of private international law.To date, we are aware of only limited published case law in which Dutch courts have considered whether such a judgment rendered by a United States federal or state court would be enforceable in the Netherlands. In all of these cases, Dutch lower courts applied the aforementioned criteria with respect to the U.S. judgment. If all three criteria were satisfied, the Dutch courts granted the same judgment without a review of the merits of the underlying claim.Investors should not assume, however, that the courts of the Netherlands, or such other foreign jurisdiction, would enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States securities laws, or that such courts would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us predicated solely upon such laws.Shareholders’ rights and responsibilities are governed by Dutch law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law, and shareholder rights under Dutch law may not be as clearly established as shareholder rights are established under the laws of some U.S. jurisdictions.Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of association and by the laws governing companies incorporated in the Netherlands. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our Board of Directors under Dutch law may not be as clearly established as under the laws of some U.S. jurisdictions. In the performance of its duties, our Board of Directors is required by Dutch law to consider the interests of our company and our business, including our shareholders, our employees, and other stakeholders, in all cases with reasonableness and fairness. It is possible that some of these parties will have interests that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of our shareholders. It is anticipated that all of our shareholder meetings will take place in the Netherlands.In addition, the rights of holders of ordinary shares, and many of the rights of shareholders as they relate to, for example, the exercise of shareholder rights, are governed by Dutch law and our articles of association and differ from the rights of shareholders under U.S. law. For example, Dutch law does not grant appraisal rights to a company’s shareholders who wish to challenge the consideration to be paid upon a merger or consolidation of the company.The provisions of Dutch corporate law and our articles of association have the effect of concentrating control over certain corporate decisions and transactions in the hands of our Board of Directors. As a result, holders of our shares may have more 25Table of Contents difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by members of our Board of Directors than if we were incorporated in the United States.We are dependent on our Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system, and any technology disruption or delay resulting from our upgrade of this ERP system could have a material negative impact on our business. We are in the process of upgrading our existing Oracle ERP system to a newer version of Oracle. We expect this upgrade to be complete in 2014. Our ability to decrease costs and increase profits, as well as our ability to serve customers most effectively, depends on the reliability of our technology network. We depend on information systems to process and ship customer orders, manage inventory and accounts receivable collections, purchase products, manage payment processes, maintain cost-effective operations, provide superior service to customers, and accumulate financial results. Any disruption to these information systems could adversely impact our ability to serve customers, decrease the volume of our business, and result in increased costs and lower profits. Furthermore, process changes will be required as we continue to use our existing warehousing, delivery, and payroll systems to support operations as we implement the upgraded ERP system. Despite extensive planning, we could experience disruptions in our business operations because of the project's complexity. The potential material adverse consequences could include project and other delays, loss of information, diminished internal and external reporting capabilities, impaired ability to process transactions, harm to our control environment, diminished employee productivity, and unanticipated increases in costs. While we have invested, and will continue to invest, in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate us from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on our operations and profits. Our principal shareholder continues to have influence over all matters submitted to a shareholder vote, which could limit the ability of our other shareholders to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control.As of December 31, 2013, our principal shareholder, Sensata Investment Company S.C.A. ("SCA"), owns approximately 18% of our outstanding ordinary shares. SCA is controlled by Sensata Management Company S.C.A. (“Sensata Management Co.”), which is controlled by investment funds advised or managed by the principals of Bain Capital, and, pursuant to agreements among all of SCA’s existing shareholders, Bain Capital has the right to appoint all of the directors of SCA. As a result, Bain Capital, through Sensata Management Co. and SCA, continues to have influence over matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other extraordinary transactions. It may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing, or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their ordinary shares as part of a sale of us, and might ultimately affect the market price of our ordinary shares.There may not be an active, liquid trading market for our ordinary shares, and our shareholders may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price at which they purchase them.The initial public offering of our ordinary shares was completed in March 2010 at a price of $18.00 per share, and secondary public offerings were completed in November 2010, February 2011, December 2012, February 2013, May 2013, and December 2013 at prices of $24.10, $33.15, $29.95, $33.20, $35.95, and $38.25 per share, respectively. There has been a public market for our ordinary shares for only a relatively short period of time. An active, liquid, and orderly market for our ordinary shares may not be sustained, which could depress the trading price of our ordinary shares. An inactive market may also impair a shareholder’s ability to sell any of our ordinary shares. In addition, the market price of our ordinary shares may fluctuate significantly and may be adversely affected by broad market and industry factors, regardless of our actual operating performance. Future sales of our ordinary shares in the public market could cause our share price to fall.If our existing shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market, the market price of our ordinary shares could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that our existing shareholders might sell shares could also depress the market price of our ordinary shares. A decline in the price of our ordinary shares might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional ordinary shares or other equity securities.Certain natural disasters, such as coastal flooding, earthquakes, or volcanic eruptions, may negatively impact our business.Natural disasters, such as the earthquake and tsunami in Japan and flooding in Thailand during 2011, could negatively impact our business by either damaging or destroying our production facilities, the production facilities of our suppliers or customers or the production facilities of our customers' other suppliers, as well as logistics facilities and systems needed to 26Table of Contents transport our products. If coastal flooding, an earthquake, a volcanic eruption, or other natural disaster were to directly damage, destroy, or disrupt our manufacturing facilities, it could materially disrupt our operations, delay new production and shipments of existing inventory, or result in costly repairs, replacements, or other costs, all of which would adversely impact our business. Even if our manufacturing facilities are not directly damaged, a natural disaster may result in disruptions in distribution or supply channels. The impact of such occurrences depends on the specific geographic circumstances but could be significant, as some of our factories are located in islands with known earthquake fault zones, or flood or hurricane risk zones, including facilities in China and the Dominican Republic. We cannot accurately predict the impact on our business or results of operations of natural disasters.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.