ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSAdverse conditions in the automotive industry have had, and may in the future have, adverse effects on our businesses.Much of our business depends on, and is directly affected by, the global automobile industry. Sales to customers in the automotive industry accounted for approximately 67% of our total 2015 net revenue. Adverse developments like those we have seen in past years in the automotive industry, including but not limited to declines in demand, customer bankruptcies, and increased demands on us for pricing decreases, could have adverse effects on our results of operations and could impact our liquidity position and our ability to meet restrictive debt covenants. In addition, these same conditions could adversely impact certain of our vendors’ financial solvency, resulting in potential liabilities or additional costs to us to ensure uninterrupted supply to our customers. Continued pricing and other pressures from our customers may adversely affect our business.Many of our customers, including automotive manufacturers and other industrial and commercial original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), have policies that require annual price reductions. If we are not able to offset continued price reductions through improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, those price reductions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our customers occasionally require engineering, design, or production changes. In some circumstances, we may be unable to cover the costs of these changes with price increases. Additionally, as our customers grow larger, they may increasingly require us to provide them with our products on an exclusive basis, which could cause an increase in the number of products we must carry and, consequently, increase our inventory levels and working capital requirements. Certain of our customers, particularly domestic automotive manufacturers, are increasingly requiring their suppliers to agree to their standard purchasing terms without deviation as a condition to engage in future business transactions. As a result, we may find it difficult to enter into agreements with such customers on terms that are commercially reasonable to us.Our businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive, and competitive pressures could require us to lower our prices or result in reduced demand for our products.Our businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive, and we compete on the basis of product performance, quality, service, and/or price across the industries and markets we serve. A significant element of our competitive strategy is to manufacture high-quality products at low cost, particularly in markets where low-cost country-based suppliers, primarily in China with respect to the Sensing Solutions business, have entered our markets, or increased their sales in our markets, by delivering products at low cost to local OEMs. In addition, certain of our competitors in the automotive sensor market are controlled by major OEMs or suppliers, limiting our access to certain customers. Many of our customers also rely on us as their sole source of supply for many of the products that we have historically sold to them. These customers may choose to develop relationships with additional suppliers or elect to produce some or all of these products internally, in each case in order to reduce risk of delivery interruptions or as a means of extracting pricing concessions. Certain of our customers currently have, or may develop in the future, the capability to internally produce the products that we sell to them and may compete with us with respect to those and other products and with respect to other customers. Competitive pressures such as these, and others, could affect prices or customer demand for our products, negatively impacting our profit margins and/or resulting in a loss of market share.We are subject to risks associated with our non-U.S. operations, which could adversely impact the reported results of operations from our international businesses, or subject us to potential penalties and/or sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA") or similar worldwide anti-bribery laws.Our subsidiaries located outside of the United States (the "U.S.") generated approximately 67% of our 2015 net revenue, and we expect sales from non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our total sales. International sales and operations are subject to changes in local government regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, taxation, exchange controls, and repatriation of earnings.A portion of our revenue, expenses, receivables, and payables are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, in particular the Euro. We are, therefore, subject to foreign currency risks and foreign exchange exposure. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and could affect our operating results. For financial reporting purposes, the functional currency that we use is the U.S. dollar because of the significant influence of the U.S. dollar on our operations. In 13Table of Contents certain instances, we enter into transactions that are denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar. At the date that such transaction is recognized, each asset, liability, revenue, expense, gain, or loss arising from the transaction is measured and recorded in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at that date. At each balance sheet date, recorded monetary balances denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar are adjusted to the U.S. dollar using the exchange rate at the balance sheet date, with gains or losses recorded in Other, net. During times of a weakening U.S. dollar, our reported international sales and earnings will increase because the non-U.S. currency will translate into more U.S. dollars. Conversely, during times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported international sales and earnings will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer U.S. dollars.There are other risks that are inherent in our non-U.S. operations, including the potential for changes in socio-economic conditions and/or monetary and fiscal policies, intellectual property protection difficulties and disputes, the settlement of legal disputes through certain foreign legal systems, the collection of receivables, exposure to possible expropriation or other government actions, unsettled political conditions, and possible terrorist attacks. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our non-U.S. operations and, therefore, on our business and results of operations.In addition, we could be adversely affected by violations of the FCPA and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these laws. Many of the countries in which we operate have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our compliance program, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or negligent acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, may have a negative effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and reputation.Integration of acquired companies, and any future acquisitions, joint ventures, and/or dispositions, may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs, or liabilities, and we may not realize all of the anticipated operating synergies and cost savings from acquisitions.We have grown, and in the future we intend to continue to grow, by making acquisitions or entering into joint ventures or similar arrangements. There can be no assurance that our acquisitions will perform as expected in the future. Any future acquisitions will depend on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, to negotiate acceptable terms for their acquisition, and to finance those acquisitions. We will also face competition for suitable acquisition candidates, which may increase our costs. In addition, acquisitions or investments require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from our other operations. Furthermore, acquisitions of businesses or facilities entail a number of additional risks, including:•problems with effective integration of operations;•the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition customer, supplier, and employee relationships;•increased operating costs; and•exposure to unanticipated liabilities.Subject to the terms of our indebtedness, we may finance future acquisitions with cash from operations, additional indebtedness, and/or by issuing additional equity securities. In addition, we could face financial risks associated with incurring additional indebtedness such as reducing our liquidity, limiting our access to financing markets, and increasing the amount of service on our debt. The availability of debt to finance future acquisitions may be restricted, and our ability to make future acquisitions may be limited.We may also seek to restructure our business in the future by disposing of certain of our assets or by consolidating operations. There can be no assurance that any restructuring of our business will not adversely affect our financial position, leverage, or results of operations. In addition, any significant restructuring of our business will require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from our operations.There can be no assurance that any anticipated synergies or cost savings generated through acquisitions will be achieved or that they will be achieved in our estimated time frame. We may not be able to successfully integrate and streamline overlapping functions from future acquisitions, and integration may be more costly to accomplish than we expect. In addition, we could encounter difficulties in managing our combined company due to its increased size and scope. 14Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of August Cayman Company, Inc. (“Schrader”) and the acquired assets and subsidiaries of Custom Sensors & Technologies Ltd. ("CST") into our operations and we may not realize the anticipated efficiencies and synergies of the acquisitions of Schrader and CST (the "Acquisitions"). If the Acquisitions do not achieve their intended results, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The integration of Schrader and CST into our operations are significant undertakings and will continue to require significant attention from our management team. The Acquisitions involve the integration of companies that previously operated independently, and the unique business cultures of these companies may prove to be incompatible. It is possible that the integration processes could take longer than anticipated and could result in the loss of valuable employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses, processes, and systems, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies, and compensation arrangements, any of which could adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Acquisitions. Our results of operations and financial condition could also be adversely affected by any issues attributable to the operations of Schrader or CST that arose or are based on events or actions that occurred prior to the closing of the Acquisitions. We may have difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies. The integration process is subject to a number of uncertainties, and although we currently anticipate significant long-term synergies, no assurance can be given that these anticipated synergies will be realized or, if realized, the timing of their realization. Our actual synergies and the expenses required to realize these synergies could differ materially from our current expectations, and we cannot assure you that these synergies will not have other adverse effects on our business. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Acquisitions could result in increased costs or decreased revenue and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Refer to Note 6, "Acquisitions," of our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of the Acquisitions.The assumption of known and unknown liabilities in the Acquisitions may harm our financial condition and results of operations.As a result of the Acquisitions, we have assumed all of the liabilities of Schrader and CST, including known and unknown contingent liabilities. If there are significant unknown obligations of Schrader or CST, or if we incur significant losses arising from known contingent liabilities assumed by us in connection with the Acquisitions, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We may obtain additional information about Schrader's or CST’s business that adversely affects the combined company, such as unknown liabilities, or issues that could affect our ability to comply with applicable laws. As a result, we cannot assure you that the Acquisitions will be successful or that they will not, in fact, harm our business. Among other things, if the liabilities of Schrader or CST are greater than expected, or if there are material obligations of which we are not aware, our business could be materially and adversely affected. If we become responsible for substantial unindemnified or uninsured liabilities, these liabilities may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to claims that our products or processes infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages, modify our products or processes, or prevent us from selling our products.Third parties may claim that our processes and products infringe on their intellectual property rights. Whether or not these claims have merit, we may be subject to costly and time consuming legal proceedings, and this could divert our management’s attention from operating our business. If these claims are successfully asserted against us, we could be required to pay substantial damages, make future royalty payments, and/or could be prevented from selling some or all of our products. We may also be obligated to indemnify our business partners or customers in any such litigation. Furthermore, we may need to obtain licenses from these third parties or substantially re-engineer or rename our products in order to avoid infringement. In addition, we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to re-engineer or rename our products successfully. If we are prevented from selling some or all of our products, our sales could be materially adversely affected. Refer to Note 14, "Commitments and Contingencies," of our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of material intellectual property claims against us.We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability, warranty, and recall claims that may be brought against us.We have been, and may continue to be, exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected, or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in death, bodily injury, and/or property damage. Accordingly, we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of the underlying end product, particularly if the defect or the alleged defect relates to product safety. Depending on the terms under which we supply products, an OEM may hold us responsible for some or all of the repair 15Table of Contents or replacement costs of these products under warranty when the product supplied did not perform as represented. In addition, a product recall could generate substantial negative publicity about our business and interfere with our manufacturing plans and product delivery obligations as we seek to repair affected products. Our costs associated with product liability, warranty, and recall claims could be material. Refer to Note 14, "Commitments and Contingencies," of our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of our product liability, warranty, and recall claims.Changes in existing environmental and/or safety laws, regulations, and programs could reduce demand for environmental and/or safety-related products, which could cause our revenue to decline.A significant amount of our business is generated either directly or indirectly as a result of existing laws, regulations, and programs related to environmental protection, fuel economy, energy efficiency, and safety regulation. Accordingly, a relaxation or repeal of these laws and regulations, or changes in governmental policies regarding the funding, implementation, or enforcement of these programs, could result in a decline in demand for environmental and/or safety products, which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue.Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our business.As of December 31, 2015, we had $3,659.5 million of gross outstanding indebtedness, including $982.7 million of indebtedness under the term loan (the "Term Loan") provided by the sixth amendment to the credit agreement dated as of May 12, 2011 (as amended, the "Credit Agreement"), $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.875% senior notes due 2023 issued under an indenture dated as of April 17, 2013 (the "4.875% Senior Notes"), $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.625% senior notes due 2024 issued under an indenture dated as of October 14, 2014 (the "5.625% Senior Notes"), $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.0% senior notes due 2025 issued under an indenture dated as of March 26, 2015 (the "5.0% Senior Notes"), $750.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.25% senior notes due 2026 issued under an indenture dated as of November 27, 2015 (together with the 4.875% Senior Notes, the 5.625% Senior Notes, and the 5.0% Senior Notes, the "Senior Notes"), $280.0 million outstanding under our $420.0 million revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility") provided by the Credit Agreement, and $46.8 million of capital lease and other financing obligations. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could:•make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations;•restrict us from making strategic acquisitions;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and future business opportunities, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage if our competitors are not as highly-leveraged;•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; or•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness if we do not maintain specified financial ratios or are not able to refinance our indebtedness as it comes due, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows for other purposes.In addition, the senior secured credit facilities provided for under the Credit Agreement (the "Senior Secured Credit Facilities"), under which the Term Loan and the Revolving Credit Facility were issued, permit us to incur additional indebtedness in the future. As of December 31, 2015, we had $134.5 million available to us under the Revolving Credit Facility. If we increase our indebtedness by borrowing under the Revolving Credit Facility or incur other new indebtedness, the risks described above would increase. Refer to Note 8, "Debt," of our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of our outstanding indebtedness.Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or future borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities or from other sources may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service and/or repay our indebtedness when it becomes due, or to fund our other liquidity needs, including capital expenditure requirements.We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain enough capital to service our debt and fund our planned capital expenditures and business plan. If we complete additional acquisitions, our debt service requirements could also increase. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity investments, or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments, and alliances, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Additionally, we may not be able to effect such actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. 16Table of Contents Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our credit arrangements, including non-compliance attributable to events beyond our control, could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition.The Revolving Credit Facility requires us to maintain a senior secured net leverage ratio not to exceed 5.0:1.0 at the conclusion of certain periods when outstanding loans and letters of credit that are not cash collateralized for the full face amount thereof exceed 10% of the commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility. In addition, Sensata Technologies B.V. and its Restricted Subsidiaries (as defined in the Credit Agreement) are required to satisfy this covenant, on a pro forma basis, in connection with any new borrowings (including any letter of credit issuances) under the Revolving Credit Facility as of the time of such borrowings. Additionally, the Revolving Credit Facility and the indentures governing the Senior Notes require us to comply with various operational and other covenants.If we experienced an event of default under any of our debt instruments that was not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the debt to become due and payable immediately, which, in turn, would result in cross defaults under our other debt instruments. Our assets and cash flows may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings if accelerated upon an event of default.If, when required, we are unable to repay, refinance, or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, the Credit Agreement, or if a default otherwise occurs, the lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities could: elect to terminate their commitments thereunder; cease making further loans; declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable; institute foreclosure proceedings against those assets that secure the borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities; and prevent us from making payments on the Senior Notes. Any such actions could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation, and we might not be able to repay our obligations in such an event.Labor disruptions or increased labor costs could adversely affect our business.As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 19,650 employees, of whom approximately 11% were located in the U.S. As of December 31, 2015, approximately 830 of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. In addition, in various countries, local law requires our participation in works councils. A material labor disruption or work stoppage at one or more of our manufacturing facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, work stoppages occur relatively frequently in the industries in which many of our customers operate, such as the automotive industry. If one or more of our larger customers were to experience a material work stoppage for any reason, that customer may halt or limit the purchase of our products. This could cause us to shut down production facilities relating to those products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.The loss, or significant non-performance, of one or more of our suppliers of manufactured components or raw materials may interrupt our supplies and materially harm our business.Our ability to meet our customers’ needs depends on our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of raw materials and finished products from our third-party suppliers and manufacturers. We purchase raw materials and components from a wide range of suppliers. For certain raw materials or components, however, we are dependent on sole source suppliers. We generally obtain these raw materials and components through individual purchase orders executed on an as needed basis, rather than pursuant to long-term supply agreements. Our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations could be adversely affected if any of our principal third-party suppliers or manufacturers experience production problems, lack of capacity, transportation disruptions, or otherwise determine to cease producing such raw materials or components. The magnitude of this risk depends upon the timing of the changes, the materials or products that the third-party manufacturers provide, and the volume of the production. We may not be able to make arrangements to transition supply and qualify replacement suppliers in a cost-effective or timely manner, or at all. Our dependence on third parties for raw materials and components subjects us to the risk of supplier non-performance and customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products. Quality failures by our third-party manufacturers or changes in their financial or business condition that affect their production could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby materially harm our business. Supplier non-performance may consist of delivery delays or failures caused by production issues or delivery of non-conforming products. The risk of non-performance may also result from the insolvency or bankruptcy of one or more of our suppliers. 17Table of Contents Our efforts to protect against and to minimize these risks may not always be effective. We may occasionally seek to engage new suppliers with which we have little or no experience. The use of new suppliers can pose technical, quality, and other risks.Increasing costs for, or limitations on the supply of or access to, manufactured components and raw materials may adversely affect our business and results of operations.We use a broad range of manufactured components, subassemblies, and raw materials in the manufacture of our products, including silver, gold, platinum, palladium, copper, aluminum, nickel, zinc, resins, and certain rare earth metals, which may experience significant volatility in their price and availability. We have entered into hedge arrangements in an attempt to minimize commodity pricing volatility and may continue to do so from time to time in the future. Such hedges might not be economically successful. In addition, these hedges do not qualify as accounting hedges in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Accordingly, the change in fair value of these hedges is recognized in earnings immediately, which could cause volatility in our results of operations from quarter to quarter. Refer to Note 16, "Derivative instruments and Hedging Activities," of our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of accounting for hedges of commodity prices.The availability and price of raw materials and manufactured components may be subject to change due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, global economic or political events including strikes, terrorist actions, war, suppliers' allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, changes in exchange rates, and prevailing price levels. For example, certain of our product lines utilize magnets containing certain rare earth metals. A large majority of the world's production of rare earth metals is in China. If China limits the export of such materials, there could be a world-wide shortage, leading to a lack of supply and higher prices for magnets made using these materials. It is generally difficult to pass increased prices for manufactured components and raw materials through to our customers in the form of price increases. Therefore, a significant increase in the price or a decrease in the availability of these items could materially increase our operating costs and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.We may not realize all of the revenue or achieve anticipated gross margins from products subject to existing purchase orders or for which we are currently engaged in development.Our ability to generate revenue from products subject to customer awards is subject to a number of important risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, including the number of products our customers will actually produce, as well as the timing of such production. Many of our customer contracts provide for supplying a certain share of the customer’s requirements for a particular application or platform, rather than for manufacturing a specific quantity of products. In some cases, we have no remedy if a customer chooses to purchase less than we expect. In cases where customers do make minimum volume commitments to us, our remedy for their failure to meet those minimum volumes is limited to increased pricing on those products that the customer does purchase from us or renegotiating other contract terms. There is no assurance that such price increases or new terms will offset a shortfall in expected revenue. In addition, some of our customers may have the right to discontinue a program or replace us with another supplier under certain circumstances. As a result, products for which we are currently incurring development expenses may not be manufactured by customers at all, or may be manufactured in smaller amounts than currently anticipated. Therefore, our anticipated future revenue from products relating to existing customer awards or product development relationships may not result in firm orders from customers for the originally contracted amount. We also incur capital expenditures and other costs, and price our products, based on estimated production volumes. If actual production volumes were significantly lower than estimated, our anticipated revenue and gross margin from those new products would be adversely affected. We cannot predict the ultimate demand for our customers’ products, nor can we predict the extent to which we would be able to pass through unanticipated per-unit cost increases to our customers.Export of our products is subject to various export control regulations and may require a license from either the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Department of Commerce, or the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Any failure to comply with such regulations could result in governmental enforcement actions, fines, penalties, or other remedies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.We must comply with the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, International Traffic in Arms Regulation ("ITAR"), and the sanctions, regulations, and embargoes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). Certain of our products that have military applications are on the munitions list of ITAR and require an individual validated license in order to be exported to certain jurisdictions. These restrictions also apply to technical data for design, development, production, use, repair, and maintenance of such ITAR-controlled products. While we have not exported ITAR-controlled products or technical data in the past, if in the future we decided to export ITAR-controlled products or technical data, such transactions would require an individual validated license from the U.S. State Department’s Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. ITAR-controlled products do not currently represent a material portion of our net revenue, but if in the future such products do 18Table of Contents represent a material portion of our net revenue, any delays in obtaining, or inability to obtain, such licenses could result in a material reduction in revenue. We export products that are subject to other export regulations, and any changes in these export regulations may further restrict the export of our products, and we may cease to be able to procure export licenses for our products under existing regulations. This area remains fluid in terms of regulatory developments. Should we need an export license under existing regulations, the length of time required by the licensing process can vary, potentially delaying the shipment of products and the recognition of the corresponding revenue. We have no control over the time it takes to process an export license. Any restriction on the export of a significant product line or a significant amount of our products could cause a significant reduction in revenue.We have discovered in the past, and may discover in the future, deficiencies in our OFAC compliance program. Although we continue to enhance our OFAC compliance program, we cannot assure you that any such enhancements will ensure that we are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations at all times, or that OFAC (or other applicable authorities) will not raise compliance concerns or perform audits to confirm our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Any failure by us to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in governmental enforcement actions, fines or penalties, criminal and/or civil proceedings, or other remedies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.We may be adversely affected by environmental, safety, and governmental regulations or concerns.We are subject to the requirements of environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries, as well as product performance standards established by quasi-governmental and industrial standards organizations. We cannot assure you that we have been, and will continue to be, in compliance with all of these requirements on account of circumstances or events that have occurred or exist but that we are unaware of, or that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with these requirements in excess of amounts we have reserved. In addition, these requirements are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. These requirements may change in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act require us to report on "conflict minerals" used in our products and the due diligence plan we put in place to track whether such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. The continuing implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in certain of our products. We have made, and may be required in the future to make, capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to pending litigation raising various environmental and human health and safety claims. We cannot assure you that our costs to defend and/or settle these claims will not be material. Taxing authorities could challenge our historical and future tax positions or our allocation of taxable income among our subsidiaries, or tax laws to which we are subject could change in a manner adverse to us.Sensata Technologies Holding N.V. is a Dutch public limited liability company that operates through various subsidiaries in a number of countries throughout the world. Consequently, we are subject to tax laws, treaties, and regulations in the countries in which we operate, and these laws and treaties are subject to interpretation. We have taken, and will continue to take, tax positions based on our interpretation of such tax laws. There can be no assurance that a taxing authority will not have a different interpretation of applicable law and assess us with additional taxes. Should we be assessed with additional taxes, this may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and/or financial condition.We conduct operations through manufacturing and distribution subsidiaries in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world. Our transfer pricing arrangements are not generally binding on applicable tax authorities. Our transfer pricing methodology is based on economic studies. The price charged for products, services, and financing among our companies, or the royalty rates and other amounts paid for intellectual property rights, could be challenged by the various tax authorities, resulting in additional tax liability, interest, and/or penalties.Tax laws are subject to change in the various countries in which we operate. Such future changes could be unfavorable and result in an increased tax burden to us. Refer to Note 9, "Income Taxes," of our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion related to income taxes.We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, and we may be required to recognize goodwill or intangible asset impairments, which would reduce our earnings.We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. Goodwill and other net identifiable intangible assets totaled approximately $4,282.3 million as of December 31, 2015, or 68% of our total assets. 19Table of Contents Goodwill, which represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of businesses acquired, was approximately $3,019.7 million as of December 31, 2015, or 48% of our total assets. Goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets were recorded at fair value on the respective dates of acquisition. Impairment of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in laws or regulations, unexpected significant or planned changes in the use of assets, and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge that is included in operating income, which may impact our ability to raise capital. Although no impairment charges have been recorded during the past three fiscal years, should certain assumptions used in the development of the fair value of our reporting units change, we may be required to recognize goodwill or other intangible asset impairments. Refer to Note 5, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," of our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more details on our goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, included in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of the assumptions used in the development of the fair value of our reporting units.We are a Dutch public limited liability company, and it may be difficult for shareholders to obtain or enforce judgments against us in the U.S.Sensata Technologies Holding, N.V. is incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands, and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside of the U.S. As a result, although we have appointed an agent for service of process in the U.S., it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to effect service of process upon us within the U.S. or to realize any judgment against us in the U.S., including for civil liabilities under the U.S. securities laws. Therefore, any judgment obtained against us in any U.S. federal or state court may have to be enforced in the courts of the Netherlands, or such other foreign jurisdiction, as applicable. Because there is no treaty or other applicable convention between the U.S. and the Netherlands with respect to the recognition and enforcement of legal judgments regarding civil or commercial matters, a judgment rendered by any U.S. federal or state court will not be enforced by the courts of the Netherlands unless the underlying claim is relitigated before a Dutch court. Under current practice, however, a Dutch court will generally grant the same judgment without a review of the merits of the underlying claim (i) if that judgment resulted from legal proceedings compatible with Dutch notions of due process, (ii) if that judgment does not contravene public policy of the Netherlands, and (iii) if the jurisdiction of the U.S. federal or state court has been based on internationally accepted principles of private international law.To date, we are aware of only limited published case law in which Dutch courts have considered whether such a judgment rendered by a U.S. federal or state court would be enforceable in the Netherlands. In all of these cases, Dutch lower courts applied the aforementioned criteria with respect to the U.S. judgment. If all three criteria were satisfied, the Dutch courts granted the same judgment without a review of the merits of the underlying claim.Investors should not assume, however, that the courts of the Netherlands, or such other foreign jurisdiction, would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws, or that such courts would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us predicated solely upon such laws.Our shareholders’ rights and responsibilities are governed by Dutch law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law, and shareholder rights under Dutch law may not be as clearly established as shareholder rights are established under the laws of some U.S. jurisdictions.Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of association and by the laws governing companies incorporated in the Netherlands. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our Board of Directors under Dutch law may not be as clearly established as under the laws of some U.S. jurisdictions. In the performance of its duties, our Board of Directors is required by Dutch law to consider the interests of our company and our business, including our shareholders, our employees, and other stakeholders, in all cases with reasonableness and fairness. It is possible that some of these parties will have interests that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of our shareholders. It is anticipated that all of our shareholder meetings will take place in the Netherlands.In addition, the rights of holders of ordinary shares, and many of the rights of shareholders as they relate to, for example, the exercise of shareholder rights, are governed by Dutch law and our articles of association and differ from the rights of shareholders under U.S. law. For example, Dutch law does not grant appraisal rights to a company’s shareholders who wish to challenge the consideration to be paid upon a merger or consolidation of the company.The provisions of Dutch corporate law and our articles of association have the effect of concentrating control over certain corporate decisions and transactions in the hands of our Board of Directors. As a result, holders of our shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by members of our Board of Directors than if we were incorporated in the U.S. 20Table of Contents Security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure could interfere with our operations, compromise confidential information, and expose us to liability which could materially adversely impact our business and reputation.Security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure could interfere with our operations; compromise information belonging to us, our employees, customers, and suppliers; and expose us to liability which could adversely impact our business and reputation. In the ordinary course of business, we rely on information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit, and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. Additionally, we collect and store certain data, including proprietary business information and customer and employee data, and may have access to confidential or personal information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations, and customer-imposed controls. Despite our cybersecurity measures (including employee and third-party training, monitoring of networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems) which are continuously reviewed and upgraded, our information technology networks and infrastructure may still be vulnerable to damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to attack by hackers, breaches, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures, systems failures, natural disasters, or other catastrophic events. Any such events could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or penalties under privacy laws, disruption in operations, and damage to our reputation, which could materially adversely affect our business. While we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats to our information technology networks and infrastructure, to date none of these threats has had a material impact on our business or operations.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone. 21Table of Contents 