Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business We may not be able to successfully integrate the Liquid Entities, or other businesses we may acquire in the future, and we may not be able to realize anticipated cost savings, revenue enhancements or other synergies from such acquisitions. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and achieve targeted financial results depends on our ability to successfully integrate the Liquid Entities or other businesses we may acquire in the future. The process of integrating the Liquid Entities, or any other acquired businesses, involves risks. These risks include, but are not limited to: • demands on management related to the significant increase in the size of our business; • diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations; • difficulties in conforming the acquired business’ accounting principles to ours; • retaining the loyalty and business of the customers of the acquired businesses; • retaining employees that may be vital to the integration of departments, information technology systems, including accounting systems, technologies, books and records, and procedures, and maintaining uniform standards, such as internal accounting controls and procedures, and policies; and • costs and expenses associated with any undisclosed or potential liabilities. Failure to successfully integrate the Liquid Entities, or any other acquired businesses, may result in reduced levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that might have been achieved if we had not acquired such businesses. In addition, the Liquid Acquisition has resulted, and any future acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We may not be able to achieve the estimated future cost savings expected to be realized as a result of the Liquid Acquisition or other future acquisitions. Failure to achieve such estimated future cost savings could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to realize anticipated cost savings, revenue enhancements or other synergies from the Liquid Acquisition or other future acquisitions, either in the amount or within the time frame that we expect. In addition, the costs of achieving these benefits may be higher than, and the timing may differ from, what we expect. Our ability to realize anticipated cost savings, synergies and revenue enhancements may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • the use of more cash or other financial resources on integration and implementation activities than we expect; • increases in other expenses unrelated to the acquisition, which may offset the cost savings and other synergies from the acquisition; • our ability to eliminate duplicative back office overhead and redundant selling, general and administrative functions, obtain procurement related savings, rationalize our distribution and warehousing networks, rationalize manufacturing capacity and shift production to more economical facilities; and 16 Table of Contents • our ability to avoid labor disruptions in connection with any integration, particularly in connection with any headcount reduction. Specifically, the significant anticipated cost savings and operating cost reductions in respect of the Liquid Acquisition reflect estimates and assumptions made by our management as to the benefits and associated expenses and capital spending with respect to our cost savings initiatives, and it is possible that these estimates and assumptions may not reflect actual results. In addition, these estimated cost savings may not actually be achieved in the timeframe anticipated or at all. If we fail to realize anticipated cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements, our financial results may be adversely affected, and we may not generate the cash flow from operations that we anticipate. Our industry is very competitive and increased competition could reduce prices and our profit margins. We operate in a competitive environment. In the past, we have encountered pricing pressures in our markets and could experience further declines in prices of plastic packaging as a result of competition. Although we have been able over time to partially offset pricing pressures by reducing our cost structure and making the manufacturing process more efficient by providing new and innovative technology, we may not be able to continue to do so in the future. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected by further declines in prices of plastic packaging and such further declines could lead to a loss of business and a decline in our margins. If we are unable to develop product innovations and improve our production technology and expertise, we could lose customers or market share. Our success may depend on our ability to adapt to technological changes in the plastic packaging industry. If we are unable to timely develop and introduce new products, or enhance existing products, in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements or demands, our competitiveness could be materially and adversely affected. We may be unable to protect our proprietary technology from infringement. We rely on a combination of patents and trademarks, licensing agreements and unpatented proprietary know-how and trade secrets to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. We enter into confidentiality agreements with customers, vendors, employees, consultants and potential acquisition candidates as necessary to protect our know-how, trade secrets and other proprietary information. However, these measures and our patents and trademarks may not afford complete protection of our intellectual property, and it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information and technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. We cannot assure that our competitors will not independently develop equivalent or superior know-how, trade secrets or production methods. Significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business or our ability to compete. For example, if we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, our profit margins could be reduced as competitors could more easily imitate our products, possibly resulting in lower prices or lost sales for certain products. In such a case, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We are periodically involved in litigation in the course of our business to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, and third parties from time to time initiate claims or litigation against us asserting infringement or violation of their intellectual property rights. We cannot assure that our products will not be found to infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Further, we cannot assure that we will prevail in any such litigation, or that the results or costs of any such litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Any litigation concerning intellectual property could be protracted and costly and is inherently unpredictable and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition regardless of its outcome. We would lose a significant source of revenues and profits if we lost any of our largest customers. The loss of one of our largest customers could result in: (i) our having excess capacity if we are unable to replace that customer; (ii) our having excess overhead and fixed costs and possible impairment of long-lived assets; and (iii) our selling, general and administrative expenses and capital expenditures representing increased portions of our revenues. 17 Table of Contents In 2010, our top 20 customers comprised 69% of our net sales. PepsiCo (collectively, with its affiliates, such as Frito-Lay, Gatorade and Tropicana) is our largest customer, with all product lines we provide to PepsiCo collectively accounting for approximately 9.6%, 10.8% and 13.3% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. If any of our large customers terminated its relationship with us, we would lose a significant source of revenues and profits. Contracts with customers generally do not require them to purchase any minimum amounts of products from us, and customers may not purchase amounts that meet our expectations. The majority of our sales are made pursuant to long-term customer purchase orders and contracts. Customers’ purchase orders and contracts typically vary in length with terms up to ten years. The contracts, including those with PepsiCo, generally are requirements contracts which do not obligate the customer to purchase any given amount of product from us. Prices under these arrangements are tied to market standards and therefore vary with market conditions. Changes in the cost of resin, the largest component of our cost of goods sold, are passed through to customers by means of corresponding changes in product pricing in accordance with our agreements with these customers and industry practice. Increases in resin prices relative to alternative packaging materials, or other price increases, may cause customers to decrease their purchases from us. Additionally, if customers undertake transformational initiatives to their product lines, such as concentrate conversions or product obsolescence actions, we may lose a source of revenues and profits. As a result, despite the existence of supply contracts with our customers, we face the risk that in the future customers will not continue to purchase amounts that meet our expectations. Increases in resin prices, relative to alternative packaging materials, and reductions in resin supplies could significantly slow our growth and disrupt our operations. We depend on large quantities of PET, HDPE and other resins in manufacturing our products. One of our primary strategies is to grow the business by capitalizing on the conversion from glass, metal and paper containers to plastic containers. Resin prices can fluctuate significantly with fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas prices, as well as changes in refining capacity and the demand for other petroleum-based products. A sustained increase in resin prices, relative to alternative packaging materials, to the extent that those costs are not passed on to the end-consumer, would make plastic containers less economical for our customers and could result in a slower pace of conversions to, or reductions in the use of, plastic containers. Changes in the cost of resin are passed through to customers by means of corresponding changes in product pricing, in accordance with our agreements with these customers and industry practice. However, if we are not able to do so in the future and there are sustained increases in resin prices, relative to alternative packaging materials, our operating margins could be affected adversely. While there is currently an adequate supply of resin available from many sources, this may not be the case in the future. Several of our larger suppliers have either entered, or are emerging from, bankruptcy protection. If the number of suppliers is significantly reduced in the future, this could affect our ability to obtain resin timely, or obtain resin at favorable prices, and our operations and profitability may be impaired. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks related to foreign currencies and local law in several countries. We have significant operations outside the United States, and therefore hold assets, incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars. Our operations outside the United States accounted for approximately 20.3%, 21.5% and 20.9% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including fluctuations in currency exchange and interest rates, imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries, imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries, labor relations problems, hyperinflation in some foreign countries and imposition or increase of investment and other restrictions by foreign governments or the imposition of environmental or employment laws. Furthermore, we typically price our products in our foreign operations in local currencies. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the local currencies 18 Table of Contents of profitable foreign subsidiaries can have a negative effect on our profitability. In our consolidated financial statements, we translate our local currency financial results into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period or the exchange rate at the end of that period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, at a constant level of business, our reported international sales, earnings, assets and liabilities will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer U.S. dollars. Exchange rate fluctuations decreased comprehensive income by $2.0 million, increased comprehensive income by $19.6 million and increased comprehensive loss by $65.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur a currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sale transaction using a currency different from the operating subsidiary’s functional currency. In several countries where we operate, resin purchases must be made in U.S. dollars. Furthermore, changes in local economic conditions can affect operations. Our international operations also expose us to different local political and business risks and challenges. For example, in certain countries, such as Venezuela and Argentina, we are faced with periodic political issues which could result in currency risks or the risk that we are required to include local ownership or management in our businesses. The above mentioned risks in North America, Europe, South America and Asia may hurt our ability to generate revenue in those regions in the future. We may not be able to recover the carrying value of our long-lived assets, which could require us to record additional asset impairment charges and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We had net property, plant and equipment of $1,203.1 million at December 31, 2010, or 42.9% of our total assets. We recorded asset impairment charges to property, plant and equipment of $9.6 million, $41.8 million and $93.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We operate in a competitive industry with rapid technological innovation. In order to remain competitive, we develop and invest in new equipment which enhances productivity, often making older equipment obsolete. In addition, changing market conditions can also impact our ability to recover the carrying value of our long-lived assets. The continuing presence of these factors, as well as other factors, could require us to record additional asset impairment charges in future periods which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets represent a significant portion of our total assets, and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. As of December 31, 2010, goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets were $838.8 million, or 29.9% of our total assets. Goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition. In accordance with the guidance under Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 350-20, “Intangibles—Goodwill and Other,” we review such assets at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products and services we sell, challenges to the validity of certain registered intellectual property, reduced sales of certain products incorporating registered intellectual property, and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge to results of operations. Depending on future circumstances, it is possible that we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any future determination of impairment of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we lost key personnel. Our success depends to a large extent on a number of key employees, and the loss of the services provided by them could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies effectively. The loss of members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not maintain “key” person insurance on any of our executive officers. If we make acquisitions in the future, we may experience assimilation problems and dissipation of management resources and we may need to incur additional indebtedness. Our future growth may be a function, in part, of acquisitions of other consumer goods packaging businesses, including investments in geographic regions with which we are not familiar. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we will face operational and financial risks, such as the risk of failing to assimilate the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses, disrupting our ongoing business, dissipating our limited 19 Table of Contents management resources and impairing relationships with employees and customers of the acquired business as a result of changes in ownership and management. Additionally, we have incurred indebtedness to finance past acquisitions, and would likely incur additional indebtedness to finance future acquisitions, as permitted under the Credit Agreement (as defined herein) and the indentures governing our Notes (as defined herein), in which case we would also face certain financial risks associated with the incurrence of additional indebtedness to make an acquisition, such as a reduction in our liquidity, access to capital markets and financial stability. Additionally, the types of acquisitions we will be able to make are limited by our Credit Agreement, which limits the amount that we may pay for an acquisition to $200 million plus additional amounts based on an unused available capital expenditure limit, certain proceeds from new equity issuances and other amounts. Our operations and profitability could suffer if we experience labor relations problems. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 3,000 of our approximately 8,300 employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements with various international and local labor unions. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, we operated 98 facilities, of which 42 were union facilities operated primarily by union employees. In the U.S., our union agreements typically have a term of three or four years and thus regularly expire and require negotiation in the course of our business. In 2011, collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 325 employees in the U.S. will expire. Upon the expiration of any of our collective bargaining agreements, we may be unable to negotiate new collective bargaining agreements on terms favorable to us, and our business operations at one or more of our facilities may be interrupted as a result of labor disputes or difficulties and delays in the process of renegotiating our collective bargaining agreements. A work stoppage at one or more of our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to expand our operations could be adversely affected if we lose access to additional blow molding equipment. Access to blow molding equipment is important to our ability to expand our operations. We have access to a broad array of blow molding equipment and suppliers. However, if we fail to continue to access this new blow molding equipment or these suppliers, our ability to expand our operations may be materially and adversely affected until alternative sources of technology can be arranged. Our operations could expose us to substantial environmental costs and liabilities. We are subject to a variety of national, state, foreign, provincial and/or local laws and regulations that impose limitations and prohibitions on the discharge and emission of, and establish standards for the use, disposal and management of, regulated materials and waste, and that impose liability for the costs of investigating and cleaning up, and damages resulting from, present and past spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous substances or materials. These domestic and international environmental laws can be complex and may change often, the compliance expenses can be significant and violations may result in substantial fines and penalties. In addition, environmental laws such as Superfund impose strict, and in some cases joint and several, liability on specified responsible parties for the investigation and cleanup of contaminated soil, groundwater and buildings, and liability for damages to natural resources, at a wide range of properties. As a result, we may be liable for contamination at properties that we currently own or operate, as well as at our former properties or off-site properties where we may have sent regulated materials. As a manufacturer, we have an inherent risk of liability under environmental laws, both with respect to ongoing operations and with respect to contamination that may have occurred in the past on our properties or as a result of our operations. We could, in the future, incur a material liability resulting from the costs of complying with environmental laws or any claims concerning noncompliance, or liability from contamination. We cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future, how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted, or what environmental conditions may be found to exist at our facilities or at third party sites for which we are liable. Enactment of stricter laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws and regulations or the requirement to undertake the investigation or remediation of currently unknown environmental contamination at our own or third-party sites may require us to make additional expenditures, some of which could be material. In addition, a number of governmental authorities, both in the United States and abroad, have considered, or are expected to consider, legislation aimed at reducing the amount of plastic wastes disposed. Programs have included, for example, mandating certain rates of recycling and/or the use of recycled materials, imposing deposits or taxes on plastic packaging material and requiring retailers or manufacturers to take back packaging used for their 20 Table of Contents products. Legislation, as well as voluntary initiatives similarly aimed at reducing the level of plastic wastes, could reduce the demand for certain plastic packaging, result in greater costs for plastic packaging manufacturers or otherwise impact our business. Some consumer products companies, including some of our customers, have responded to these governmental initiatives and to perceived environmental concerns of consumers by using containers made in whole or in part of recycled plastic. Future legislation and initiatives could adversely affect us in a manner that would be material. If we were deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “1940 Act”) as a result of our ownership of Holdings, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we were to cease participation in the management of Holdings, our interest in Holdings could be deemed an “investment security” for purposes of the 1940 Act. Generally, a person is deemed to be an “investment company” if it owns investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items), absent an applicable exemption. We will have no material assets other than our equity interest in Holdings. A determination that this interest was an investment security could result in our being an investment company under the 1940 Act and becoming subject to the registration and other requirements of the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act and the rules thereunder contain detailed parameters for the organization and operations of investment companies. Among other things, the 1940 Act and the rules thereunder limit or prohibit transactions with affiliates, impose limitations on the issuance of debt and equity securities, prohibit the issuance of stock options, and impose certain governance requirements. We intend to conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act. However, if anything were to happen which would cause us to be deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act, requirements imposed by the 1940 Act, including limitations on our capital structure, ability to transact business with affiliates and ability to compensate key employees, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted, impair the agreements and arrangements between and among us, Holdings, Blackstone or the Graham Family, or any combination thereof and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We will be required to pay our pre-IPO stockholders and the Graham Family for certain tax benefits we may claim arising in connection with our IPO and related transactions, which amounts are expected to be material. In connection with our IPO, we entered into an exchange agreement with the Graham Family. Pursuant to the exchange agreement, limited partnership units held by the Graham Family may (subject to the terms of the exchange agreement) be exchanged for shares of our common stock outstanding on a one-for-one basis, subject to customary conversion rate adjustments for stock splits, stock dividends and reclassifications. Holdings intends to have in effect an election under Section 754 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), effective for each taxable year in which an exchange of limited partnership units for shares of common stock occurs, which may result in an adjustment to the tax basis of the assets of Holdings at the time of an exchange of limited partnership units. Any such exchanges are expected to result in an increase in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of Holdings that otherwise would not have been available. Similar increases to the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of Holdings resulted from our 1998 acquisition of Holdings. These increases in tax basis will increase (for tax purposes) depreciation and amortization and therefore reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future. These increases in tax basis may also decrease gain (or increase loss) on future dispositions of certain capital assets to the extent tax basis is allocated to those capital assets. Additionally, in connection with the IPO, we will be able to utilize net operating losses that arose prior to the IPO and are therefore attributable to our pre-IPO stockholders (i.e., Blackstone, management and other stockholders). These net operating loss carryforwards will also reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future. We have entered into an income tax receivable agreement with GPC Holdings, L.P. (“GPC LP”) that provides for the payment by us to the Graham Family of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax that we actually realize (or are deemed to realize in the case of an early termination payment or a change of control as discussed below) as a result of these increases in tax basis (specifically, those attributable to exchanges of limited partnership units, as described above) and of certain other tax benefits related to our entering into the income tax receivable agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the income tax receivable agreement. We have also entered into an income tax receivable agreement with certain of our 21 Table of Contents pre-IPO stockholders that will provide for the payment to all of our pre-IPO stockholders (i.e., Blackstone, management and other investors) of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax that we actually realize (or are deemed to realize in the case of an early termination or a change of control as discussed below) as a result of (i) the utilization of our net operating losses attributable to periods prior to the IPO, and (ii) any increase to the tax basis of the assets of Holdings relating to our 1998 acquisition of 85% of Holdings (as discussed above) and certain other tax benefits related to our entering into the income tax receivable agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the income tax receivable agreement. These payment obligations are our obligations and not obligations of Holdings or any of our other subsidiaries. The actual increase in tax basis, actual amount and utilization of net operating losses, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the income tax receivable agreements, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of subsequent exchanges, the price of shares of our common stock outstanding at the time of an exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable and the amount, character and timing of our taxable income in the future. We expect that the payments that we make under these income tax receivable agreements will be material. Assuming no material changes in the relevant tax law, and that we earn sufficient taxable income to realize the full tax benefits subject to the income tax receivable agreements, we expect that future payments under the income tax receivable agreements will aggregate to between $200 million to $235 million with potential additional payments for tax basis step-ups relating to future exchanges by the Graham Family of their limited partnership units in Holdings for common stock depending on the timing and value of such exchanges. This range is based on our assumptions using various items, including valuation analysis and historical tax basis amounts. This range also includes step-ups related to the Graham Family’s exchange of 1,324,900 limited partnership units through December 31, 2010. Such amounts may differ materially from the amounts presented above based on various items, including final valuation analysis and updated determinations of taxable income and historic tax basis amounts. The payments under the income tax receivable agreements are not conditioned upon these parties’ continued ownership of us or Holdings. In addition, the income tax receivable agreements provide that upon certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control, the income tax receivable agreements will terminate and we will be required to make a payment equal to the present value of future payments under the income tax receivable agreements, which payment would be based on certain assumptions, including those relating to our future taxable income. In these situations, our obligations under the income tax receivable agreements could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity and could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing certain mergers, asset sales, other form of business combinations or other changes of control. Our counterparties under these agreements will not reimburse us for any payments previously made under the income tax receivable agreements if such benefits are subsequently disallowed (although future payments would be adjusted to the extent possible to reflect the result of such disallowance). As a result, in certain circumstances, payments could be made under the income tax receivable agreements in excess of our cash tax savings. Our only material asset is our interest in Holdings, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from Holdings to pay dividends and taxes and other expenses, including payments under the income tax receivable agreements. 22 Table of Contents We are a holding company and have no material assets other than our ownership of limited partnership units in Holdings. We have no independent means of generating revenue. We intend to cause Holdings to make distributions to its partners in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes payable and dividends, if any, declared by us, as well as any payments due under the income tax receivable agreements described above. However, the instruments and agreements governing our indebtedness contain covenants that restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us, which could affect our ability to make payments under the income tax receivable agreements and to pay dividends. To the extent that we need funds and Holdings is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds pursuant to the terms of our indebtedness, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. To the extent that we are unable to make payments under the income tax receivable agreements for any reason, such payments will be deferred and will accrue interest at LIBOR plus five percent per annum until paid. Blackstone controls us and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. Blackstone owns shares of our common stock sufficient for the majority vote over all matters requiring a stockholder vote, including: the election of directors; mergers, consolidations or acquisitions; the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other decisions affecting our capital structure; the amendment of our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws; and our winding up and dissolution. In addition, pursuant to the stockholders’ agreement with Blackstone, Blackstone has the right to nominate to our board of directors a number of designees equal to: (i) at least a majority of the total number of directors comprising our board at such time as long as Blackstone beneficially owns more than 35% of the shares of our common stock entitled to vote generally in the election of our directors; (ii) 42% of the total number of directors comprising our board at such time as long as Blackstone beneficially owns more than 25% but less than or equal to 35% of the shares of our common stock entitled to vote generally in the election of our directors; (iii) 28% of the total number of directors comprising our board of directors at such time as long as Blackstone beneficially owns more than 15% but less than or equal to 25% of the shares of our common stock entitled to vote generally in the election of our directors; and (iv) 14% of the total number of directors comprising our board of directors at such time as long as Blackstone beneficially owns 5% or more of the shares of our common stock entitled to vote generally in the election of our directors. As a result, even after Blackstone no longer owns a majority of our voting stock, Blackstone could continue to have significant influence over our decision to enter into any corporate transaction and may have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders, regardless of whether or not other stockholders believe that such transaction is in their own best interests. Such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control or other business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. As long as Blackstone continues to own, directly or indirectly, a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, it will continue to be able to or effectively control our decisions. Additionally, Blackstone is in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Our restated certificate of incorporation provides that neither Blackstone, nor members of our board of directors who are not our employees (including any directors who also serve as officers) have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. Blackstone may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. These potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects if attractive corporate opportunities are allocated by Blackstone to themselves or their other affiliates instead of to us. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our indebtedness could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate and grow our business. At December 31, 2010, we had $2,832.8 million of total consolidated indebtedness. In addition, at December 31, 2010, after taking into account letters of credit of $14.8 million, we had $110.0 million of revolving loan capacity under our senior secured credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”). Under our Credit Agreement, we also have available to us an uncommitted incremental loan facility in an amount of up to an additional $300.0 million and we may incur additional indebtedness as permitted under our Credit Agreement and other instruments governing our indebtedness. 23 Table of Contents A significant portion of our cash flow must be used to service our indebtedness and is therefore not available to be used in our business. Our ability to generate cash flow is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that may be beyond our control. In addition, a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates. At December 31, 2010, a one percentage point change in the interest rates for our variable-rate indebtedness would impact interest expense by an aggregate of approximately $0.2 million, excluding the impact of our interest rate swap agreements. Our obligations in connection with our indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, they could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may incur additional debt in the future, which could increase the risks associated with our substantial outstanding indebtedness. We continually pursue organic growth and selectively evaluate and pursue acquisition opportunities and may incur additional indebtedness, including indebtedness under our Credit Agreement, to finance any such growth and acquisitions and to fund any resulting increased operating needs. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks we now face related to our indebtedness could increase. The terms of our debt instruments restrict the manner in which we conduct our business and may limit our ability to implement elements of our business strategy. The instruments and agreements governing our indebtedness contain numerous covenants, including financial and operating covenants, some of which are quite restrictive. These covenants affect, and in many respects limit, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional debt; • create liens; • consolidate, merge or sell assets; • make certain capital expenditures; • make certain advances, investments and loans; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • engage in any business other than the packaging business; • pay dividends; and • repurchase stock. These covenants could restrict us in the pursuit of our business strategy. As of December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with the covenants under the instruments and agreements governing our indebtedness. We may not be able to renew or replace our senior secured revolving credit facility and our senior secured term loan facility, and we may obtain less favorable terms when we attempt to renew or replace them. Approximately $1,032.9 million of the term loans under our senior secured credit facility will mature on April 5, 2014, and $910.7 million will mature on September 23, 2016. Our senior secured revolving credit facility of $124.8 million will mature on October 1, 2013. We may not be able to renew or replace these facilities on favorable terms as they expire, or we may not be able to renew or replace them at all. As a result, we may incur higher borrowing costs and could have more stringent debt covenants. If financial market conditions deteriorate, our business and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents In the event that a party acquires beneficial ownership representing voting power in Holdings greater than the voting power represented by the interests beneficially owned by Blackstone, it will trigger an event of default under our Credit Agreement. In the event that a party acquires beneficial ownership representing voting power in Holdings greater than the voting power represented by the interests beneficially owned by Blackstone through shares of our common stock, an event of default under our Credit Agreement will be triggered. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our Credit Agreement, the lenders will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us or could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable, which could result in an event of default under our other debt instruments. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our Credit Agreement could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our Credit Agreement. If the lenders under our Credit Agreement accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our Credit Agreement and our other indebtedness or be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, or terms that are acceptable to us. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of our common stock to decline. The market price of our common stock may be volatile due to a number of factors such as those listed in “—Risks Related to Our Business” and the following, some of which are beyond our control: • quarterly variations in our results of operations; • results of operations that vary from those of our competitors; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; • announcements by us, our competitors or our vendors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; • future sales of our common stock; and • changes in investor sentiment toward the stock of packaging companies in general and plastic packaging companies in particular. Furthermore, the stock market may experience volatility that in some cases is unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of market volatility, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation. If we were involved in securities litigation, it could have a substantial cost and divert resources and the attention of executive management from our business regardless of the outcome of such litigation. If we or our pre-IPO investors sell our common stock or exchange Holdings limited partnership units for additional shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. Subject to registration of certain shares pursuant to a registration rights agreement, substantially all of the shares of our common stock are available for resale in the public market. 25 Table of Contents Pursuant to exchange agreements, the Graham Family and other holders of Holdings limited partnership units and options to purchase Holdings limited partnership units have, or will have, the right to exchange limited partnership units in Holdings for shares of our common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to customary conversion rate adjustments for stock splits, stock dividends and reclassifications. Our shares of common stock issuable upon exchange of Holdings limited partnership units are eligible for resale from time to time, subject to certain contractual restrictions and restrictions under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock received in exchange for limited partnership units could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, pursuant to a registration rights agreement, we have granted certain stockholders and unitholders the right to cause us, in certain instances, at our expense, to file registration statements under the Securities Act covering resales of shares of our common stock held by them or to be acquired by them by exchanging partnership units. These restricted shares also may be sold pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, depending on their holding period and subject to restrictions in the case of shares held by persons deemed to be our affiliates. The Graham Family exercised its rights under the registration rights agreement, and, on December 30, 2010, a registration statement on Form S-1 for the resale of up to 6,507,599 shares of GPC’s common stock was declared effective by the SEC. The market price of our common stock could decline if the holders of our shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. Because we may not pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell our common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, for future operation, debt reduction and expansion, and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, level of indebtedness, cash requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends may be limited by covenants of any existing and future indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including the Credit Agreement and the indentures. As a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless you sell our common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. We have anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents that may discourage a change of control. Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a stockholder might consider in its best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by our stockholders. These provisions provide for, among other things: • a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; • the ability of our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock; • advance notice for nominations of directors by stockholders and for stockholders to include matters to be considered at our annual meetings; • certain limitations on convening special stockholder meetings; • the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of holders of at least 75% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; and • that certain provisions may be amended only by the affirmative vote of at least 75% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. These anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our company, even if the third party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many of our stockholders. As a result, our stockholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. 26 Table of Contents We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules and, as a result, will qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. You will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements. Blackstone controls a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including: • the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; • the requirement that we have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; • the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and • the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. We utilize these exemptions and, therefore, do not have a majority of independent directors, our nominating and corporate governance committee and our compensation committee do not consist entirely of independent directors and such committees are not subject to annual performance evaluations. Accordingly, you do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 