ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Properties, Our Business and Our Growth Strategy Challenging economic conditions facing us and our tenants may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We and our tenants are susceptible to adverse economic developments in the United States. The United States has been in a challenging economic environment in recent years that may continue into the future. General economic factors that are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, decreases in consumer confidence, reductions in consumer credit availability, increasing consumer debt levels, rising energy costs, tax rates, increasing business layoffs, downsizing and industry slowdowns, and/or rising inflation, could have a negative impact on the business of our tenants. In turn, this could have a material adverse effect on our business because current or prospective tenants may, among other things (1) have difficulty paying us rent as they struggle to sell goods and services to consumers, (2) be unwilling to enter into or renew leases with us on favorable terms or at all, (3) seek to terminate their existing leases with us or seek downward rental adjustment to such leases or (4) be forced to curtail operations or declare bankruptcy. If the national economy continues to experience uncertainty, or general economic conditions were to worsen, the value of our properties, as well as the income we receive from our properties, could be adversely affected. This may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The decrease in demand for retail space may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our portfolio of properties consists primarily of retail properties and because we seek to acquire similar properties, a decrease in the demand for retail space may have a greater adverse effect on our business and financial condition than if we owned a more diversified real estate portfolio. The market for retail space has been, and could continue to be, adversely affected by weakness in the national, regional and local economies, the adverse financial condition of some large retailing companies, the ongoing consolidation in the retail sector, the excess amount of retail space in a number of markets and increasing consumer purchases through catalogues or the Internet. Although we will take current economic conditions into account in acquiring properties in the future, our long-term success depends in part on improving economic conditions and the eventual return of a stable and dependable financing market for retail real estate. To the extent that these conditions continue, they are likely to negatively affect market rents for retail space and could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the value of the Company’s securities, our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and our ability to pay distributions to Excel Trust, L.P.’s unitholders or Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. 12 Table of Contents Our expansion strategy may not yield the returns expected, may result in disruptions to our business, may strain our management resources and may adversely affect our operations. As we continue to acquire properties, such growth may require substantial attention from our existing management team, which may divert management’s attention from our current properties and impair our relationships with our current tenants and employees. Implementing our growth plan also will require that we expand our management and staff with qualified and experienced personnel and that we implement administrative, accounting and operational systems sufficient to integrate new properties into our portfolio. We also must manage future property acquisitions without incurring unanticipated costs or disrupting the operations at our existing properties. Managing new properties requires a focus on leasing and retaining tenants. If we fail to successfully integrate future acquisitions into our portfolio, or if newly acquired properties fail to perform as we expect, our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions could suffer. We may be unable to identify, acquire, develop or operate properties successfully, which could harm our financial condition and ability to pay distributions. We continue to evaluate the market for available properties and may acquire additional properties when attractive opportunities exist. We may also develop or substantially renovate other properties. Acquisition, development and renovation activities are subject to significant risks, including: • we may be unable to obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all, • changing market conditions, including competition from others, may diminish our opportunities for acquiring a desired property on favorable terms, or at all. Even if we enter into agreements for the acquisition of properties, these agreements are likely to be subject to customary conditions to closing, including completion of due diligence investigations to our satisfaction, • we may spend more time or money than we budget to improve or renovate acquired properties or to develop properties, • we may abandon development activities after expending significant resources, • we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new properties, particularly if we acquire portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, • we may fail to obtain the financial results expected from the properties we acquire or develop, making them unprofitable or less profitable than we had expected, • market and economic conditions may result in higher than expected vacancy rates and lower than expected rental rates, • when we develop properties, we may encounter delays or refusals in obtaining all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, • we may experience difficulty in obtaining any required consents of third parties such as tenants and mortgage lenders, • acquired and developed properties may have defects we do not discover through our inspection processes, including latent defects that may not reveal themselves until many years after we put a property in service, and • we may acquire land, properties or entities owning properties which are subject to liabilities and for which, in the case of unknown liabilities, we may have limited or no recourse. The realization of any of the above risks could significantly and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the value of the Company’s securities, ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and ability to pay distributions to Excel Trust, L.P.’s unitholders or Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. 13 Table of Contents We may fail to obtain the financial results expected from the properties we acquire or develop, making them unprofitable or less profitable than we had expected. We expect to acquire and/or develop a number of properties in the near future. In deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make certain assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. If a number of these properties do not perform as expected, such properties may be unprofitable or less profitable than we expected and our financial performance may be adversely affected. We may not be successful in identifying acquisitions or development projects that meet our investment criteria, which may impede our growth. Part of our business strategy is expansion through acquisitions and development projects, which requires us to identify acquisition and development candidates that satisfy our investment criteria and are compatible with our growth strategy. We may not be successful in identifying real estate properties or other assets that meet our acquisition or development criteria or in completing acquisitions or developments on satisfactory terms. Failure to identify or complete acquisitions or developments may slow our growth, which may materially adversely affect our operations. We may suffer economic harm as a result of allocating resources to unprofitable efforts to enter new markets. Our properties are located in 12 states, and as we grow our business we may expand our operations into markets where we do not currently operate. We may fail to accurately gauge conditions in a new market prior to entering it, and therefore may not achieve our anticipated results in the new market. If this occurs, our cash flow from operations may be adversely affected. Failure by any major tenant to make rental payments to us, because of a deterioration of its financial condition or otherwise, could seriously harm our performance. As of December 31, 2014, our three largest retail tenants in terms of annualized base rent were Dick’s Sporting Goods, Ross Dress for Less and Publix Super Markets, Inc., the scheduled annualized base rents for which represented 2.8%, 2.7% and 2.5%, respectively, of our total retail annualized base rent. As of December 31, 2014, our three largest office tenants in terms of annualized base rent were Kaiser Permanente, Healthcare Trust of America and Fitch, Inc., the scheduled annualized base rents for which represented 22.0%, 8.5% and 8.3%, respectively, of our total office annualized base rent. Our performance depends on our ability to collect rent from these and other tenants. At any time, our tenants may experience a downturn in their business that may significantly weaken their financial condition, whether as a result of general economic conditions or otherwise. As a result, our tenants may fail to make rental payments when due under a number of leases, delay a number of lease commencements, decline to extend or renew a number of leases upon expiration, close a number of stores or declare bankruptcy. Any of these actions could result in the termination of the tenant’s leases and the loss of rental income attributable to the terminated leases. In addition, lease terminations by a major tenant or non-owned anchor or a failure by that major tenant or non-owned anchor to occupy the premises could result in lease terminations or reductions in rent by other tenants in the same shopping centers under the terms of some leases. In that event, we may be unable to re-lease the vacated space at attractive rents or at all. Furthermore, because many of our leases are triple-net, the failure of a tenant to make payments could result not only in lost rental income, but also in an increase in our unreimbursed operating expenses. The occurrence of any of the situations described above, particularly if it involves a substantial tenant or non-owned anchor with leases in multiple locations, could seriously harm our performance. The bankruptcy of a tenant may adversely affect the income produced by and the value of our properties. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a tenant may adversely affect the income produced by our properties. We cannot assure you that any tenant that files for bankruptcy protection will continue to pay rent. If any tenant becomes a debtor in a case under the Bankruptcy Code, we cannot evict the tenant solely because of the 14 Table of Contents bankruptcy. The bankruptcy court also might authorize the tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us, which would generally result in any unpaid, pre-bankruptcy rent being treated as an unsecured claim. An unsecured claim may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims. In addition, our claim against the tenant for unpaid, future rent would be subject to a statutory cap equal to the greater of (1) one year of rent or (2) 15% of the remaining rent on the lease (not to exceed three years of rent). This cap might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease. Additionally, a bankruptcy court may require us to turn over to the estate all or a portion of any deposits, amounts in escrow, or prepaid rents. Our claim for unpaid, pre-bankruptcy rent, our lease termination damages and claims relating to damages for which we hold deposits or other amounts that we were forced to repay would likely not be paid in full. Properties that we acquire may be subject to unknown liabilities that affect the value and profitability of these properties. We are actively pursuing additional property acquisitions. Any properties that we acquire may be subject to existing liabilities that are unknown at the time we acquire such properties, which could affect such properties’ valuation or revenue potential. Unknown liabilities might include liabilities for cleanup or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions; claims of tenants, vendors or other persons dealing with the entities prior to our acquisition of such properties (that had not been asserted or threatened prior to our acquisition); tax liabilities and accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business. The existence of such liabilities could significantly adversely affect the value of the property subject to such liability and our ability to pay distributions to Excel Trust, L.P.’s unitholders or Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. We do not have exclusive control over our joint venture investments, which makes these investments risky. We have invested in some properties as a joint venture partner, instead of owning the properties directly. In these investments, we do not have exclusive control over the development, financing, leasing, management and other aspects of these investments. As a result, our partners might have interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours, take action contrary to our interests or otherwise impede our objectives. These investments involve risks and uncertainties. Our partners may fail to provide capital or fulfill their obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments or conflicts arising between us and our partners. It could be difficult for us to manage or otherwise adequately monitor such joint ventures, including managing and resolving any conflicts with our partners. Our partners also might become insolvent or bankrupt, which may result in significant losses to us. Although our joint venture arrangements may allow us to share risks with our joint venture partners, these arrangements may also decrease our ability to manage risk. Joint ventures implicate additional risks, such as: • potentially inferior financial capacity, diverging business goals and strategies and the need for our partners’ continued cooperation, • our inability to take actions with respect to joint venture activities that we believe are favorable if our joint venture partners do not agree, • our inability to control the legal entity that has title to the real estate associated with the joint venture, • our lenders may not be easily able to sell our joint venture assets and investments or may view them less favorably as collateral, which could negatively affect our liquidity and capital resources, • our joint venture partners can take actions that we may not be able to anticipate or prevent, which could result in negative impacts on our debt and equity, and • our joint venture partners’ business decisions or other actions or omissions may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investments. Our joint venture investments generally own real estate properties for which the economic performance and value are subject to all the risks associated with owning and operating real estate described in the risk factors above. 15 Table of Contents Inflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Many of our leases require the tenant to pay its share of operating expenses, including common area maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance. However, increased inflation may have a more pronounced negative impact on our mortgage and debt interest and general and administrative expenses because these costs could increase at a rate higher than our rents. Also, inflation may adversely affect tenant leases with stated rent increases or limits on such tenant’s obligation to pay its share of operating expenses, which could be lower than the increase in inflation at any given time. For example, certain of our triple-net and bond leases for freestanding retail properties do not include rent escalation clauses and therefore tenants under such leases pay a flat rental rate throughout the life of their lease. Inflation could also have an adverse effect on consumer spending, which may impact our tenants’ sales and, in turn, our average rents. Our property taxes could increase due to property tax rate changes or reassessment, which may adversely impact our cash flows. Even if we continue to qualify as a REIT for United States federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay certain taxes, including state and local taxes on our properties. The real property taxes on our properties may increase as property tax rates change or as our properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. Therefore, the amount of property taxes we pay in the future may increase substantially. If the property taxes we pay increase, our cash flow would be impacted, and our ability to pay distributions to Excel Trust, L.P.’s unitholders or Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders may be adversely affected. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including financial transactions and records, personally identifiable information, and tenant and lease data. We purchase some of our information technology from vendors, on whom our systems depend. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential tenant and other sensitive information. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of our information systems and the data maintained in those systems, it is possible that our safety and security measures will not be able to prevent the systems’ improper functioning or damage, or the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber-attacks. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. While, to date, we have not experienced a security breach, this risk has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of such breaches and attempted breaches from around the world have increased. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, divert significant management attention and resources to remedy any damages that result, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on key personnel with extensive experience dealing with the commercial real estate industry, and the loss of these key personnel could threaten our ability to operate our business successfully. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued services of our management team. In particular, we depend on the efforts of Gary Sabin, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Spencer Plumb, our President and Chief Operating Officer, James Nakagawa, our Chief Financial Officer, Mark Burton, our Chief Investment Officer and Senior Vice President of Acquisitions, and Eric Ottesen, our Senior Vice President and General Counsel. Among the reasons that Messrs. Sabin, Plumb, Nakagawa, Burton and Ottesen are important to our success is that each has a national or regional reputation in the commercial real estate industry based on their extensive experience in running public and private companies, including REITs, devoted to real 16 Table of Contents estate investment, management and development. Each member of our management team has developed informal relationships through past business dealings with numerous members of the commercial real estate community, including current and prospective tenants, lenders, real estate brokers, developers and managers. We expect that their reputations will attract business and investment opportunities before the active marketing of properties and will assist us in negotiations with lenders, existing and potential tenants, and industry personnel. If we lost their services, our relationships with such lenders, existing and prospective tenants, and industry personnel could suffer. We have entered into employment agreements with each of our executive officers, but we cannot guarantee that they will not terminate their employment prior to the end of the term. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry Significant competition may decrease or prevent increases in our properties’ occupancy and rental rates and may reduce our investment opportunities. We compete with numerous owners, operators and developers for acquisitions and development of retail shopping centers, including institutional investors, other REITs and other owner-operators of community and neighborhood shopping centers, some of which own or may in the future own properties similar to ours in the same submarkets in which our properties are located. We also face significant competition in leasing available space to prospective tenants at our operating properties. The actual competition for tenants varies depending upon the characteristics of each local market (including current economic conditions) in which we own and manage property. We believe that the principal competitive factors in attracting tenants in our market areas are location, demographics, price, the presence of anchor stores and appearance of properties. Increased competition for tenants may require us to make unbudgeted capital improvements, while decreased occupancy could lower our revenues and cause us to incur expenses on vacant spaces, both of which may reduce cash available to pay distributions to Excel Trust, L.P.’s unitholders or Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. Our competitors may have substantially greater financial resources than we do and may be able to accept more risk than we can prudently manage. In the future, competition from these entities may reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us or increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell. Further, as a result of their greater resources, those entities may have more flexibility than we do in their ability to offer rental concessions to attract tenants. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates, or below the rental rates we currently charge our tenants, we may lose potential tenants and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to retain tenants when our tenants’ leases expire. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the value of the Company’s securities, ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and ability to pay distributions to Excel Trust, L.P.’s unitholders or Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders may be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2014, leases were scheduled to expire in 2014, 2015 and 2016 on a total of approximately 5.1%, 10.9% and 7.0%, respectively, of the GLA of our retail operating properties. Uninsured and underinsured losses could adversely affect our operating results and our ability to pay distributions. Many of our properties are located in states that are particularly susceptible to natural disasters (such as earthquakes, wildfires, hurricanes and other events), including our properties in California and the southeastern United States. We carry comprehensive general liability, fire and extended coverage and loss of rental insurance covering all of our properties under a blanket portfolio policy. We believe the policy specifications and insured limits are adequate given the relative risk of loss, cost of the coverage and standard industry practice. We intend to carry similar insurance with respect to future acquisitions, as appropriate. Our headquarters is located in San Diego, California, which is an area that is more likely to be subject to earthquakes. We presently carry earthquake insurance on our properties with certain limits, and have limited insurance coverage for other catastrophic events. In the future, we may be unable to renew or duplicate our current insurance coverage in adequate amounts or at reasonable prices. Insurance companies may no longer offer coverage against certain types of losses, such as losses due to terrorist acts, environmental liabilities, or other catastrophic events, or, if offered, the expense of obtaining these types of insurance may not be justified. 17 Table of Contents If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. We may choose not to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed, if inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors make it impractical or undesirable. In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged. If any of our properties were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could seriously disrupt our operations, delay revenue and result in large expenses to repair or rebuild the property. Events such as these could adversely affect our results of operations, our ability to meet our obligations and our ability to pay distributions to Excel Trust, L.P.’s unitholders or Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. While we evaluate the credit ratings of each of our insurance companies at the time we enter into or renew our policies, the financial condition of one or more of these insurance companies could significantly deteriorate to the point that they may be unable to pay future insurance claims. The inability of any of these insurance companies to pay future claims under our policies may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our properties depend on anchor stores or major tenants to attract shoppers and could be adversely affected by the loss of, or a store closure by, one or more of these tenants. Regional shopping centers are typically anchored by large, nationally recognized tenants. The value of our retail properties with anchor tenants, as well as the value of retail properties we may seek to acquire, could be adversely affected if these tenants fail to comply with their contractual obligations, seek concessions in order to continue operations or cease their operations. Consolidations among large retail establishments typically result in the closure of existing stores or duplicate or geographically overlapping store locations. We will not be able to control the disposition of those large retail establishments following a consolidation, nor will we control the vacant space that is not re-leased to closed stores. Some of our tenants are entitled to modify the terms of their existing leases in the event of such closures. The modification could be unfavorable to us as the lessor and could decrease rents or expense recovery charges. Additionally, major tenant closures may result in decreased customer traffic which could lead to decreased sales at other stores. If the sales of stores operating in our properties were to decline significantly due to closing of anchors, economic conditions or other reasons, tenants may be unable to pay their minimum rents or expense recovery charges. In the event of default by a tenant or anchor store, we may experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord to recover amounts due to us under the terms of our agreements with those parties. Illiquidity of real estate investments may make it difficult for us to sell properties in response to market conditions and could harm our financial condition and ability to make distributions. Equity real estate investments are relatively illiquid and therefore will tend to limit our ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changing economic or other conditions. To the extent the properties are not subject to triple-net leases, some significant expenditures such as real estate taxes and maintenance costs are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment. Should these events occur, our income and funds available for distribution could be adversely affected. Properties subject to triple-net leases may, in certain circumstances, be more illiquid than other properties as they may have been developed to suit the needs of a particular tenant. In addition, as a REIT, we may be subject to a 100% tax on net income derived from the sale of property considered to be held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of our business. We may seek to avoid this tax by complying with certain safe harbor rules that generally limit the number of properties we may sell in a given year, the aggregate expenditures made on such properties prior to their disposition, and how long we retain such properties before disposing of them. However, we can provide no assurance that we will always be able to comply with these safe harbors. If compliance is possible, the safe harbor rules may restrict our ability to sell assets in the future and achieve liquidity that may be necessary to fund distributions. In addition, some of our tenants have rights of first refusal or rights of first offer to purchase the 18 Table of Contents properties, or portions thereof, in which they lease space in the event that we seek to dispose of such properties, or portions thereof. Other tenants have rights of first offer to lease any space in the property that is contiguous with their currently leased space. The presence of these rights of first refusal and rights of first offer could make it more difficult for us to sell these properties, or portions thereof, in response to market conditions. We may be unable to renew leases, lease vacant space or re-lease space as leases expire, which could adversely affect our business and our ability to pay distributions. If we cannot renew leases, we may be unable to re-lease our properties at rates equal to or above the current rate. Even if we can renew leases, tenants may be able to negotiate lower rates as a result of market conditions. Our properties currently are located in 12 states. The economic condition of each of our markets may be dependent on one or more industries. An economic downturn in one of these industry sectors or in the markets in which our properties are located may result in an increase in tenant bankruptcies, which may harm our performance in the affected market. Economic and market conditions also may affect the ability of our tenants to make lease payments. Market conditions may also hinder our ability to lease vacant space in newly developed properties. In addition, we may enter into or acquire leases for properties with spaces that are uniquely suited to the needs of a particular tenant. Such properties may require renovations, tenant improvements or other concessions in order to lease them to other tenants if the initial leases terminate. Any of these factors could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the value of the Company’s securities, our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and our ability to pay distributions to Excel Trust, L.P.’s unitholders or Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. We may be unable to secure funds for future tenant or other capital improvements, which could limit our ability to attract or replace tenants and adversely impact our ability to make cash distributions. When tenants do not renew their leases or otherwise vacate their space, it is common that, in order to attract replacement tenants, we will be required to expend funds for tenant improvements and other concessions related to the vacated space. Such tenant improvements may require us to incur substantial capital expenditures. We may not be able to fund capital expenditures solely from cash provided from our operating activities because we must distribute at least 90% of Excel Trust, Inc.’s REIT taxable income excluding net capital gains each year to maintain Excel Trust, Inc.’s status as a REIT for United States federal income tax purposes. As a result, our ability to fund tenant and other capital improvements through retained earnings may be limited. If we have insufficient capital reserves, we will have to obtain financing from other sources. We may also have future financing needs for other capital improvements to refurbish or renovate our properties. If we are unable to secure financing on terms we feel are acceptable or at all, we may be unable to make tenant and other capital improvements or we may be required to defer such improvements. If this happens, it may cause one or more of our properties to suffer from a greater risk of obsolescence or a decline in value, as a result of fewer potential tenants being attracted to the property or existing tenants not renewing their leases. If we do not have access to sufficient funding in the future, we may not be able to make necessary capital improvements to our properties, pay other expenses or pay distributions to Excel Trust, L.P.’s unitholders or Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. We could incur significant costs related to government regulation and private litigation over environmental matters involving the presence, discharge or threat of discharge of hazardous or toxic substances, which could adversely affect our operations, the value of our properties, and our ability to make distributions. Our properties may be subject to environmental liabilities. Under various federal, state and local laws, a current or previous owner, operator or tenant of real estate can face liability for environmental contamination created by the presence, discharge or threat of discharge of hazardous or toxic substances. Liabilities can include the cost to investigate, clean up and monitor the actual or threatened contamination and damages caused by the contamination (or threatened contamination). The liability under such laws may be strict, joint and several, meaning that we may be liable regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of the contaminants, and the government entity or 19 Table of Contents private party may seek recovery of the entire amount from us even if there are other responsible parties. Liabilities associated with environmental conditions may be significant and can sometimes exceed the value of the affected property. The presence of hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent that property or to borrow using that property as collateral. Environmental laws also: • may require the removal or upgrade of underground storage tanks, • regulate the discharge of storm water, wastewater and other pollutants, • regulate air pollutant emissions, • regulate hazardous materials’ generation, management and disposal, and • regulate workplace health and safety. We are unaware of any of our existing tenants or any of the tenants in the properties we intend to acquire violating applicable laws and regulations, but we and our tenants cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these materials. If our properties become contaminated, or if a party is injured, we could be held liable for any damages that result. Such liability could exceed our resources and any environmental remediation insurance coverage we have, which could adversely affect our operations, the value of our properties, and our ability to pay distributions. Existing conditions at some of our properties may expose us to liability related to environmental matters. Independent environmental consultants have conducted Phase I or similar environmental site assessments on all of the properties in our portfolio. Each of the site assessments has been completed as part of the due diligence in the acquisition process. Site assessments are intended to discover and evaluate information regarding the environmental condition of the surveyed property and surrounding properties. These assessments do not generally include subsurface investigations or mold or asbestos surveys. None of the recent site assessments revealed any past or present environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations. However, the assessments may have failed to reveal all environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns. Material environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns may have arisen after the review was completed or may arise in the future; and future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material additional environmental liability. We cannot assure you that costs of future environmental compliance will not affect our ability to pay distributions or that such costs or other remedial measures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations. Our properties may contain asbestos or develop harmful mold, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem, which could adversely affect the value of the affected property and our ability to pay distributions. We are required by federal regulations with respect to our properties to identify and warn, via signs and labels, of potential hazards posed by workplace exposure to installed ACMs, and potential ACMs. We may be subject to an increased risk of personal injury lawsuits by workers and others exposed to ACMs and potential ACMs at our properties as a result of these regulations. The regulations may affect the value of any of our properties containing ACMs and potential ACMs. Federal, state and local laws and regulations also govern the removal, encapsulation, disturbance, handling and/or disposal of ACMs and potential ACMs when such materials are in poor condition or in the event of construction, remodeling, renovation or demolition of a property. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds 20 Table of Contents may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing because exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. The presence of ACMs or significant mold at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the ACMs or mold from the affected property. In addition, the presence of ACMs or significant mold could expose us to liability to our tenants, their or our employees, and others if property damage or health concerns arise. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar laws may require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures. Our properties are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, or ADA. The ADA requires that all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. We believe that our properties were built in substantial conformance with the building codes of their respective cities, including in substantial compliance with the applicable ADA requirements at the time of construction. If one or more properties is not in compliance with the ADA, then we would be required to bring the non-compliant properties into compliance. Compliance with the ADA could require removing access barriers. Non-compliance could result in imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages and/or attorneys’ fees to private litigants, or both. Additional federal, state and local laws also may require us to modify properties or could restrict our ability to renovate properties. Complying with the ADA or other legislation at non-compliant properties could be very expensive. If we incur substantial costs to comply with such laws, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the value of the Company’s securities, our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and our ability to pay distributions to Excel Trust, L.P.’s unitholders or Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders could be adversely affected. We may incur significant unexpected costs to comply with fire, safety and other regulations, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, and ability to pay distributions. Our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and safety requirements, building codes and land use regulations. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could be subject to governmental fines or private damage awards. We believe that our properties are currently in material compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements. However, we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether future requirements, including any requirements that may emerge from pending or future climate change legislation, will require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures that will adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the value of our Company’s securities, our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and our ability to pay distributions. Increased competition and affordability of residential homes could limit our ability to retain our residents, lease apartment units or maintain or increase rents at our multi-family apartment units. Our multi-family apartment units at our West Broad Village property compete with numerous housing alternatives in attracting residents, including other multi-family apartment properties and single-family rental homes, as well as owner occupied single- and multi-family homes. Competitive housing markets and an increase in the affordability of owner occupied single- and multi-family homes due to, among other things, declining housing prices, oversupply of housing, low mortgage interest rates, and tax incentives and government programs to promote home ownership, could adversely affect our ability to retain residents, lease apartment units and maintain or increase rents, which in turn could adversely affect our financial performance. Litigation may result in unfavorable outcomes. Like many real estate operators, we may be involved in lawsuits involving premises liability claims and alleged violations of landlord-tenant laws, which may give rise to class action litigation or governmental 21 Table of Contents investigations. Any material litigation not covered by insurance, such as a class action, could result in us incurring substantial costs, harm our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay distributions. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure Conflicts of interest could result in our management acting other than in Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders’ best interests. Conflicts of interest exist or could arise in the future as a result of the relationships between Excel Trust, Inc. and its affiliates, on the one hand, and the Operating Partnership or any partner thereof, on the other. Excel Trust, Inc.’s directors and officers have duties under applicable Maryland law to manage Excel Trust, Inc. in a manner consistent with the best interests of its stockholders. At the same time, Excel Trust, Inc., as the general partner of the Operating Partnership, has fiduciary duties to manage the Operating Partnership in a manner beneficial to the Operating Partnership and its partners. Excel Trust, Inc.’s duties, as general partner to the Operating Partnership and its limited partners, therefore, may come into conflict with the duties of its directors and officers to its stockholders. Excel Trust, Inc. is under no obligation to give priority to the separate interests of the limited partners of the Operating Partnership or its stockholders in deciding whether to cause the Operating Partnership to take or decline to take any actions. The limited partners of the Operating Partnership expressly acknowledge that, as the general partner of the Operating Partnership, Excel Trust, Inc. is acting for the benefit of the Operating Partnership, the limited partners and its stockholders collectively. We may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under contribution and other agreements because of conflicts of interest with certain of our directors and officers. Messrs. Sabin, Plumb, Nakagawa, Burton, Ottesen and Romney and other individuals and entities not affiliated with us or our management had ownership interests in the properties contributed to the Operating Partnership in our formation transactions. Under the agreements relating to the contribution of those interests, we are entitled to indemnification and damages in the event of breaches of representations or warranties made by the members of our management and other contributors. In addition, certain members of senior management have entered into employment agreements with us pursuant to which they have agreed to devote substantially all of their business time to our affairs. None of these contribution and employment agreements were negotiated on an arm’s length basis. We may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under these contribution and employment agreements because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationships with the individuals involved. Members of our executive management team have outside business interests that could require time and attention. Members of our executive management team own interests in properties that have not been contributed to us. In some cases, one or more of these individuals or their affiliates will have management and fiduciary obligations that may conflict with that person’s responsibilities as an officer of the Company and may adversely affect our operations. For example, Mr. Sabin and certain of our senior management team own and manage various properties that have not been contributed to us. Certain of Excel Trust, Inc.’s directors and officers may face adverse tax consequences that could prevent the sale of Excel Centre or repayment of indebtedness. The sale of our Excel Centre property and the repayment of qualifying indebtedness of Excel Trust, L.P., would have different effects on holders of operating partnership units than on Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. The parties that contributed this property to the Operating Partnership would incur adverse tax consequences upon the sale of the property or the repayment of qualifying debt of the partnership, that differ from the tax consequences to Excel Trust, Inc. and its stockholders. Consequently, these holders of operating partnership units, including Messrs. Sabin, Nakagawa, Burton and Ottesen, may have different objectives regarding the appropriate timing of any such transactions. Certain of Excel Trust, Inc.’s directors and officers could exercise their influence in a manner inconsistent with the interests of some, or a majority, of Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders, including in a manner which could delay or prevent the sale of this property, or the repayment of qualifying indebtedness of the partnership. 22 Table of Contents Excel Trust, L.P.’s Partnership Agreement, Excel Trust, Inc.’s charter, bylaws and Maryland law contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a change of control that may be beneficial to Excel Trust, L.P.’s unitholders and Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. The limited partners of the Operating Partnership have limited approval rights, which may prevent Excel Trust, Inc. from completing a change of control transaction. Excel Trust, Inc., as the general partner of the Operating Partnership, may not withdraw as general partner or transfer its general partnership interest in the Operating Partnership without the consent of limited partners holding more than 50% of the operating partnership units held by all limited partners (excluding any limited partners owned or controlled by Excel Trust, Inc.). In addition, except in certain circumstances, Excel Trust, Inc., as general partner of the Operating Partnership, may not engage in a merger, consolidation, or other combination or the sale of all or substantially all of its assets or such similar transaction, without the consent of the partners holding more than 50% of all outstanding common operating partnership units, including the units held by Excel Trust, Inc., as more fully set forth in the partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership. The right of the limited partners to vote on these transactions could limit our ability to complete a change of control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interests of Excel Trust, L.P.’s unitholders and Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. Excel Trust, Inc.’s charter contains ownership limits that may delay, defer or prevent a change of control transaction. Excel Trust, Inc.’s charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes its directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve Excel Trust, Inc.’s qualification as a REIT. In addition, Excel Trust, Inc.’s charter contains certain restrictions on ownership and transfer of its capital stock which prohibit any person, unless exempted by Excel Trust, Inc.’s board of directors, from, among other things, acquiring or holding, directly or indirectly, (1) in excess of 9.8% in value of the aggregate of our outstanding shares of capital stock, (2) common stock in excess of 9.8% (in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of Excel Trust, Inc.’s outstanding shares of common stock, (3) 7.00% Series A Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, or Series A preferred stock, in excess of 9.8% (in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of Excel Trust, Inc.’s outstanding shares of Series A preferred stock or (4) 8.125% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, or Series B preferred stock, in excess of 9.8% (in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of Excel Trust, Inc.’s outstanding shares of Series B preferred stock. Among other restrictions, the board may not grant such an exemption to any proposed transferee whose ownership of in excess of the applicable ownership limit would result in Excel Trust, Inc. failing to qualify as a REIT. These restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply if Excel Trust, Inc.’s board of directors determines that it is no longer in Excel Trust, Inc.’s best interests to attempt to qualify as a REIT. The ownership limits may delay or impede a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for Excel Trust, Inc.’s common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of Excel Trust, L.P.’s unitholders and Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. Excel Trust, Inc. could authorize and issue stock without unitholder or stockholder approval that may delay, defer or prevent a change of control transaction. Excel Trust, Inc.’s charter authorizes it to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of its common stock or preferred stock. In addition, Excel Trust, Inc.’s board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of Excel Trust, Inc.’s common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Excel Trust, Inc.’s board of directors may also, without stockholder or unitholder approval, amend Excel Trust, Inc.’s charter to increase the authorized number of shares of Excel Trust, Inc.’s common stock or preferred stock that may be issued. The board of directors could establish a series of common stock or preferred stock that could, depending on the terms of such series, delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for Excel Trust, Inc.’s common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of Excel Trust, L.P.’s unitholders and Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law could delay, defer or prevent a change of control transaction. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, may have the 23 Table of Contents effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire Excel Trust, Inc. or of impeding a change of control. In some cases, such an acquisition or change of control could provide Excel Trust, Inc., stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of their shares. These MGCL provisions include: • “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between Excel Trust, Inc. and an “interested stockholder” for certain periods. An “interested stockholder” is generally any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of Excel Trust, Inc. shares or an affiliate or associate of Excel Trust, Inc. who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of Excel Trust, Inc.’s then outstanding voting stock. A person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if Excel Trust, Inc.’s board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. Business combinations with an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. After that period, the MGCL imposes two super-majority voting requirements on such combinations, and • “control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of Excel Trust, Inc. acquired in a “control share acquisition” have no voting rights unless holders of two-thirds of Excel Trust, Inc.’s voting stock (excluding interested shares) consent. “Control shares” are shares that, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors. A “control share acquisition” is the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares” from a party other than the issuer. In the case of the business combination provisions of the MGCL, Excel Trust, Inc. opted out by resolution of its board of directors. In the case of the control share provisions of the MGCL, Excel Trust, Inc. opted out pursuant to a provision in its bylaws. However, Excel Trust, Inc.’s board of directors may by resolution elect to opt in to the business combination provisions of the MGCL. Further, Excel Trust, Inc. may opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future by amending its bylaws, which its board of directors can do without stockholder or unitholder approval. Maryland law, and Excel Trust, Inc.’s charter and bylaws also contain other provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for Excel Trust, Inc.’s common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. The ability of Excel Trust, Inc.’s board of directors to revoke Excel Trust, Inc.’s REIT status without unitholder or stockholder approval may cause adverse consequences to Excel Trust, L.P.’s unitholders and Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. Excel Trust, Inc.’s charter provides that its board of directors may revoke or otherwise terminate Excel Trust, Inc.’s REIT election, without the approval of unitholders or stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interest for Excel Trust, Inc. to continue to qualify as a REIT. If Excel Trust, Inc. ceases to be a REIT, it would become subject to United States federal income tax on its taxable income and would no longer be required to distribute most of its taxable income to Excel Trust, L.P. unitholders and Excel Trust, Inc. stockholders, which may have adverse consequences on our total return to our unitholders and stockholders. Excel Trust, Inc.’s board of directors may amend our investing and financing guidelines without unitholder or stockholder approval, and, accordingly, you would have limited control over changes in our policies that could increase the risk we default under our debt obligations or that could harm our business, results of operations and the price of the Company’s securities. Although we are not required to maintain any particular leverage ratio, we intend, when appropriate, to employ prudent amounts of leverage and to use debt as a means of providing additional funds for the acquisition 24 Table of Contents of our target assets and the diversification of our portfolio. Excel Trust, Inc.’s board of directors has adopted long-term guidelines targeting our indebtedness at less than 40% of our gross undepreciated asset value, although we may, from time to time, exceed this amount. However, our organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of debt that we may incur, nor do they limit the types of properties we may acquire or develop. The amount of leverage we will deploy for particular investments in our target assets will depend upon our management team’s assessment of a variety of factors, which may include the anticipated liquidity and price volatility of the target assets in our investment portfolio, the potential for losses, the availability and cost of financing the assets, our opinion of the creditworthiness of our financing counterparties, the health of the U.S. economy and commercial mortgage markets, our outlook for the level, slope and volatility of interest rates, the credit quality of our target assets and the collateral underlying our target assets. Excel Trust, Inc.’s board of directors may alter or eliminate our current guidelines on borrowing or investing at any time without unitholder or stockholder approval. Changes in our strategy or in our investment or leverage guidelines could expose us to greater credit risk and interest rate risk and could also result in a more leveraged balance sheet. These factors could result in an increase in our debt service and could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to Excel Trust, L.P.’s unitholders and Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. Higher leverage also increases the risk we would default on our debt. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited. Maryland law provides that a director or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. As permitted by the MGCL, Excel Trust, Inc.’s charter limits the liability of its directors and officers to Excel Trust, Inc. and its stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services, or • active and deliberate dishonesty established by a final judgment and which is material to the cause of action. In addition, Excel Trust, Inc.’s charter authorizes it to obligate the Company, and Excel Trust, Inc.’s bylaws require it, to indemnify and pay or reimburse our present and former directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. As a result, Excel Trust, Inc. and its stockholders may have more limited rights against Excel Trust, Inc.’s directors and officers than might otherwise exist under common law. Accordingly, in the event that actions taken in good faith by any of Excel Trust, Inc.’s directors or officers impede the performance of the Company, your ability to recover damages from such director or officer will be limited. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure Debt obligations expose us to increased risk of property losses and default under our debt obligations, which could have adverse consequences on our business operations and our ability to pay distributions. As of December 31, 2014, we had outstanding mortgage indebtedness of approximately $190.3 million, and we may incur significant additional debt to finance future acquisition and development activities. We also had $254.9 million of debt and commitments outstanding under our unsecured revolving credit facility, which includes $16.9 million in letters of credit issued under the facility, $350.0 million of unsecured notes and a $50.0 million term loan. The capacity of the credit facility may be increased by up to an additional $200.0 million to a total borrowing capacity of $500.0 million, subject to receipt of lender commitments and other conditions precedent. Although our organizational documents do not require us to maintain any particular leverage ratio, we intend, when appropriate, to employ prudent amounts of leverage and to use debt as a means of providing additional funds for the acquisition of our target assets and the diversification of our portfolio. Excel Trust, Inc.’s 25 Table of Contents board of directors has adopted long-term guidelines targeting our indebtedness at less than 40% of our gross undepreciated asset value, although we may, from time to time, exceed this amount. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of debt that we may incur, nor do they limit the types of properties we may acquire or develop. The amount of leverage we will deploy for particular investments in our target assets will depend upon our management team’s assessment of a variety of factors, which may include the anticipated liquidity and price volatility of the target assets in our investment portfolio, the potential for losses, the availability and cost of financing the assets, our opinion of the creditworthiness of our financing counterparties, the health of the U.S. economy and commercial mortgage markets, our outlook for the level, slope and volatility of interest rates, the credit quality of our target assets and the collateral underlying our target assets. Excel Trust, Inc.’s board of directors may alter or eliminate our current guidelines on borrowing or investing at any time without unitholder or stockholder approval. Changes in our strategy or in our investment or leverage guidelines could expose us to greater credit risk and interest rate risk and could also result in a more leveraged balance sheet. These factors could result in an increase in our debt service and could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make distributions. Higher leverage also increases the risk we would default on our debt. We have used and will continue to use debt to finance property acquisitions. Our use of debt may have adverse consequences, including the following: • Required payments of principal and interest may be greater than our cash flow from operations. • We may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms, to make payments on our debt. • If we default on our debt obligations, the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our properties that secure those loans. Further, if we default under a mortgage loan, we will automatically be in default on any other loan that has cross-default provisions, and we may lose the properties securing all of these loans. • A foreclosure on one of our properties will be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the secured debt. If the outstanding balance of the secured debt exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure without realizing any accompanying cash proceeds to pay the tax (or to make distributions based on REIT taxable income). • We may not be able to refinance or extend our existing debt. If we cannot repay, refinance or extend our debt at maturity, in addition to our failure to repay our debt, we may be unable to pay distributions to Excel Trust, L.P.’s unitholders or Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders at expected levels or at all. • Even if we are able to refinance or extend our existing debt, the terms of any refinancing or extension may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. If the refinancing involves a higher interest rate, it could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to pay distributions to Excel Trust, L.P.’s unitholders or Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. If any one of the above were to occur, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, cash available for distribution to you, the value of the Company’s securities and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations could be materially adversely affected. Our unsecured revolving credit facility contains restrictive covenants relating to our operations, which could limit our ability to respond to changing market conditions and our ability to pay distributions. Our unsecured revolving credit facility imposes restrictions on us that affect our distribution and operating policies and our ability to incur additional debt. For example, we are subject to a maximum leverage ratio (defined as total liabilities to total asset value) of 0.60 to 1.00, which could have the effect of reducing our ability to incur additional debt and consequently reduce our ability to pay distributions. The unsecured revolving credit 26 Table of Contents facility also contains limitations on our ability to pay distributions. Specifically, our cash distributions may not exceed the greater of (1) 95% of our FFO (as defined in the credit agreement), and (2) the amount required for us to qualify and maintain Excel Trust, Inc.’s REIT status. If an event of default exists, we may only make distributions sufficient to qualify and maintain Excel Trust, Inc.’s REIT status. In addition, the unsecured revolving credit facility contains customary restrictive covenants requiring us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, a maximum secured indebtedness ratio, a maximum unencumbered leverage ratio, a minimum unencumbered interest coverage ratio and a minimum tangible net worth. These or other limitations may adversely affect our flexibility and our ability to achieve our operating plans and could result in us being limited in the amount of distributions we would be permitted to pay to Excel Trust, L.P.’s unitholders or Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain debt financing on reasonable terms or at all and have other adverse effects on us. In recent years, the U.S. credit markets have experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions. These circumstances continue to impact liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for some borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. Uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional debt financing or to refinance existing debt maturities on reasonable terms (or at all), which may negatively affect our ability to conduct operations, make acquisitions and fund current and future development and redevelopment projects. In addition, if the financial position of the lenders under our credit facilities worsen, they could default on their obligations to make available to us the funds under those facilities. If we are unable to obtain financing in the credit markets, we may seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and have to adjust our business plan accordingly. In addition, these factors could make it more difficult for us to sell properties or adversely affect the price we receive for properties that we do sell, as prospective buyers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. Adverse events in the credit markets could also have an adverse effect on other financial markets in the United States and globally, including the stock markets, which could make it more difficult or costly for Excel Trust, Inc. to raise capital through the issuance of common stock, preferred stock or other equity securities. We may engage in hedging transactions, which can limit our gains and increase exposure to losses. Subject to the requirements for maintaining Excel Trust, Inc.’s qualification as a REIT, we may enter into hedging transactions to protect us from the effects of interest rate fluctuations on floating rate debt. Our hedging transactions may include entering into interest rate swap agreements or interest rate cap or floor agreements, or other interest rate exchange contracts. Hedging activities may not have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. No hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates. Moreover, interest rate hedging could fail to protect us or adversely affect us because, among other things: • available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which we seek protection, • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability, • the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay, • the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction, and • the value of derivatives used for hedging may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with accounting rules to reflect changes in fair value, such downward adjustments, or “mark-to-market losses,” which would reduce our stockholders’ equity. Hedging involves risk and typically involves costs, including transaction costs, that may reduce our overall returns on our investments. These costs increase as the period covered by the hedging increases and during 27 Table of Contents periods of rising and volatile interest rates. These costs will also limit the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders and stockholders. We generally intend to hedge as much of the interest rate risk as management determines is in our best interests given the cost of such hedging transactions. The REIT qualification rules may limit our ability to enter into hedging transactions by requiring us to limit our income from non-qualifying hedges. If we are unable to hedge effectively because of the REIT rules, we will face greater interest rate exposure than may be commercially prudent. Increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our debt payments and adversely affect our ability to pay distributions. Interest we pay could reduce cash available for distributions. As of December 31, 2014, we had $301.8 million of variable rate mortgage debt outstanding, which includes $254.9 million of debt and commitments outstanding under our unsecured revolving credit facility (including $16.9 million in letters of credit issued under the facility), a construction loan at one property with a borrowing capacity of up to $58.0 million (outstanding borrowings of approximately $1.8 million at December 31, 2014) and our $50.0 million term loan. Our unsecured revolving credit facility bears interest at the rate of LIBOR plus a margin of 90 basis points to 170 basis points, depending on the Parent Company’s credit rating. Our construction loan bears interest at the rate of LIBOR plus a margin of 230 basis points. Our term loan bears interest at the rate of LIBOR plus a margin of 115 basis points. We may incur variable rate debt in the future, including mortgage debt and amounts under our unsecured revolving credit facility. Any increase in interest rates would increase our interest costs with respect to our variable rate debt. These increased interest costs would reduce our cash flows and our ability to make distributions to Excel Trust, L.P.’s unitholders or Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. In addition, if we need to repay existing debt during a period of rising interest rates, we could be required to liquidate one or more of our investments in properties at times that may not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments. If we fail to obtain external sources of capital, which is outside of our control, we may be unable to pay distributions, maintain Excel Trust, Inc.’s REIT status, or fund growth. In order to maintain Excel Trust, Inc.’s status as a REIT and to avoid incurring a nondeductible excise tax, we are required, among other things, to distribute annually at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, excluding any net capital gain. In addition, Excel Trust, Inc. will be subject to income tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that it distributes less than 100% of its REIT taxable income, including any net capital gains. Because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund future capital needs, including any necessary acquisition financing, from operating cash flow. Consequently, we rely on third-party sources to fund our capital needs. We may not be able to obtain financings on favorable terms or at all. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on: • general market conditions, • the market’s perception of our growth potential, • with respect to acquisition financing, the market’s perception of the value of the properties to be acquired, • our current debt levels, • our current and expected future earnings, • our cash flow and cash distributions, and • the market price per share of our common stock. It will adversely affect our business and limit our growth if we are unable to obtain capital from third-party sources. Without sufficient capital, we may not be able to acquire or develop properties when strategic opportunities exist, satisfy our debt service obligations or make the cash distributions to Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders necessary to maintain its qualification as a REIT. 28 Table of Contents Risks Related to Excel Trust, Inc.’s REIT Status Excel Trust, Inc.’s failure to continue to qualify as a REIT under the Code would result in significant adverse tax consequences to us and would adversely affect our business. We believe we have operated and intend to continue operating in a manner that will allow Excel Trust, Inc. to continue to qualify as a REIT for United States federal income tax purposes under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The fact that we hold substantially all of our assets through the Operating Partnership further complicates the application of the REIT requirements. Even a seemingly minor technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize Excel Trust, Inc.’s REIT status. Excel Trust, Inc.’s REIT status depends upon various factual matters and circumstances that may not be entirely within our control. For example, in order to continue to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, such as rents from real property, and we must satisfy a number of requirements regarding the composition of our assets. Also, Excel Trust, Inc. must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of Excel Trust, Inc.’s REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains. In addition, new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions, each of which could have retroactive effect, may make it more difficult or impossible for Excel Trust, Inc. to continue to qualify as a REIT, or could reduce the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments. We have not requested and do not plan to request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, that Excel Trust, Inc. qualifies as a REIT, and the statements in this report are not binding on the IRS or any court. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that Excel Trust, Inc. has qualified or will continue to qualify as a REIT. If Excel Trust, Inc. fails to continue to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will face serious adverse tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available to distribute to you. If Excel Trust, Inc. fails to continue to qualify as a REIT: • we would not be allowed to deduct distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to United States federal income tax at regular corporate rates, • we could also be subject to the United States federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes, and • unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, Excel Trust, Inc. could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year in which it was disqualified. In addition, if Excel Trust, Inc. fails to continue to qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to stockholders. As a result of all these factors, Excel Trust, Inc.’s failure to continue to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital and would adversely affect the value of Excel Trust, Inc.’s common stock and preferred stock. To maintain Excel Trust, Inc.’s REIT status, we may be forced to borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions to pay distributions to Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. To maintain Excel Trust, Inc.’s REIT status, we must distribute to Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders at least 90% of Excel Trust, Inc.’s REIT taxable income each year, excluding any net capital gain, and Excel Trust, Inc. will be subject to regular corporate income taxes to the extent that it distributes less than 100% of its REIT taxable income each year. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. To maintain Excel Trust, Inc.’s REIT status and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes we may need to borrow funds to meet the REIT distribution requirements. These borrowing needs could result from: • differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for United States federal income tax purposes, 29 Table of Contents • the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, • the creation of reserves, or • required debt or amortization payments. We may need to borrow funds at times when the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for borrowing. These borrowings could increase our costs or reduce our equity and adversely affect the value of Excel Trust, Inc.’s common stock and preferred stock. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. The maximum federal income tax rate applicable to income from “qualified dividends” payable to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for this reduced rate. Although these rules do not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including the value of Excel Trust, Inc.’s common stock and preferred stock. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities. The REIT provisions of the Code limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. Any income from a hedging transaction we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes, price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets does not constitute “gross income” for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests applicable to REITs . In addition, such hedging transactions must be properly identified as provided in the Treasury regulations. If we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of the gross income tests applicable to REITs. As a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a taxable REIT subsidiary, or TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our TRS would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. The tax imposed on REITs engaging in “prohibited transactions” may limit our ability to engage in transactions which would be treated as sales for United States federal income tax purposes. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% penalty tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property held in inventory primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Although we do not intend to hold any properties that would be characterized as inventory held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of our business, unless the sale or disposition of a property qualifies under certain statutory safe harbors, such characterization is a factual determination and no guarantee can be given that the IRS would agree with our characterization of our properties or that we will always be able to make use of the available safe harbors. To maintain Excel Trust, Inc.’s REIT status, we may be forced to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To maintain Excel Trust, Inc.’s REIT status, we must satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders and the ownership of Excel Trust, Inc.’s stock. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at times when it would be more advantageous to reinvest cash in our business or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. 30 Table of Contents In particular, we must ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities, securities of any TRS or qualified REIT subsidiary of ours and securities that are qualified real estate assets) generally may not include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities, securities of any TRS or qualified REIT subsidiary of ours and securities that are qualified real estate assets) may consist of the securities of any one issuer. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must remedy the failure within 30 days or qualify for certain limited statutory relief provisions to avoid losing status as a REIT. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to Excel Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could increase our tax liability, reduce our operating flexibility and reduce the market price of Excel Trust, Inc.’s common shares. At any time, the United States federal income tax laws governing REITs may be amended or the administrative and judicial interpretations of those laws may be changed. We cannot predict when or if any new United States federal income tax law, regulation, or administrative and judicial interpretation, or any amendment to any existing United States federal income tax law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective, and any such law, regulation, or interpretation may be effective retroactively. We and Excel Trust, Inc.’ stockholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, United States federal income tax law, regulation or administrative and judicial interpretation. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 31 Table of Contents 