Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in or incorporated by reference into this report should be carefully considered. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our Class A ordinary shares could decline. Table of Contents 17 Risk Factors Relating to the Shipping Industry and Current Economic Conditions The global financial crisis has had, and may continue to have, an impact on our business and financial condition. Additionally, protracted economic weakness could have a material adverse effect on our operating income, cash flows and ability to service our debt obligations. The dry bulk shipping industry is volatile and unpredictable. In 2009, we experienced added pressure on freight rates directly correlating to the global financial crisis. The global financial crisis reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to borrowers, which further pressured shipping rates. Many lenders and institutional investors reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding and letters of credit necessary to finance purchases of steel products, agricultural commodities, metal concentrates and aggregates. As a result, corresponding with a decline in freight rates there was a reduced demand for steel products, agricultural commodities, metal concentrates and aggregates. Shipping rates and the demand for shipping services correspond directly with the demand and price for commodities. Global economic conditions adversely affected the demand for commodities and in conjunction with the volatile prices for steel products, agricultural commodities, metal concentrates and aggregates, the demand for shipping services had moderated. The market turmoil and tightening of credit led to a widespread reduction of business activity, in general, which adversely affected demand for our services. These conditions are continuing into early 2010. There continues to be uncertainty as to the long-term success of international efforts to address the global economic crisis. We cannot predict the timing and severity of future global economic or shipping downturns. However, a protracted economic slowdown, including recessions in major geographic regions, could reduce the demand for shipping services while decreasing freight rates and increasing our costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, including causing asset impairments, as well as a material adverse affect on our operating income, cash flows and the trading price of our stock. Moreover, our business is exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness and stability of our suppliers, customers and business partners. The consequences of such adverse effects could include interruptions or delays in performance of our contracts, reductions, renegotiations and interruptions in customer contracts, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing or letters of credit to finance shipping, and bankruptcy of customers or other creditors. Any of these events may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. Further, a continued downturn in the economy and our revenues could adversely affect our ability to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial covenants required by our credit facilities. The current worldwide financial crisis has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund or support the continuation and expansion of business operations worldwide. Continued disruption of the credit markets has affected and could continue to adversely affect our suppliers’ and customers’ access to credit, which supports the continuation and expansion of their businesses worldwide and could result in disruptions in our business operations, contract cancellations or suspensions and payment delays or defaults by our customers. If current market conditions continue for a protracted period, our ability to access credit on favorable terms, or at all, may be adversely affected, which may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, acquire vessels or pursue business opportunities. The global financial crisis has had an adverse impact on our vessel values and cash flows, which in turn has adversely affected our ability to comply with certain financial covenants in our credit facilities. One of the significant effects of the current global financial downturn has been a reduction in vessel values, which directly affected our ability to comply with certain financial covenants in our credit facilities. The financial covenants require that we maintain certain fixed charge and leverage ratios, as well as maintain tangible net worth within defined limits. We are also required to maintain minimum cash and cash equivalent balances and collateral coverage and to prepay principal or deliver additional security in the event that the fair market value of the vessels falls below limits specified in the loan agreement.. We concluded in early 2009, that due to the downturn in the shipping market and based on third-party vessel valuations, we did not meet our collateral coverage requirements. Consequently, we obtained waivers from all of our lenders to the collateral coverage ratio and financial covenants through January 1, 2010. As a result of the loan modification two additional covenants were introduced that require us to have a minimum end of month cash balance and a minimum EBITDA to interest expense ratio. Table of Contents 18 We met each of the additional covenants in 2009. In late December 2009, while economic conditions continued to improve, we concluded that based upon internal projections and the four quarter look-back methodology used in computing the ratios, it was probable that we would be in violation of the leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios on January 1, 2010 after the waivers expire. Accordingly, we obtained from all of our lenders, an extension of the waivers until April 1, 2010. The additional covenants are applicable through the extended waiver period. Based on current internal projections, however, we anticipate that we will not meet certain of the reinstated covenant requirements during the next 12 months. Generally accepted accounting principles require that long-term loans be classified as a current liability when either a covenant violation that gives the lender the right to call the debt has occurred at the balance sheet date, or such a covenant violation would have occurred absent a waiver of those covenants, and in either case it is probable that the covenant violation will not be cured within the next 12 months. Accordingly, long-term loans are classified as a current liability in our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2009. We are in the process of discussing permanent modifications to our credit facilities with our lenders. Additionally, we are seeking alternative financing sources to repay our credit facilities. We cannot give any assurance that we will be able to obtain the permanent covenant modifications and /or other financing. The failure to obtain the permanent covenant modifications or other financing would have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition and liquidity and would raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Costs and revenues in the shipping industry are volatile. The shipping industry historically has experienced volatility in freight rates, the cost of fuel oil, the cost and availability of crew, port charges and currency exchange rates, as well as in vessel charter rates and vessel values due to changes in the level and pattern of global economic activity and the highly competitive nature of the world shipping industry. In addition, an increasing number of countries are regulating the sulfur content of fuel oil, which may increase the cost of such fuel. Changes to marine regulatory regimes in the ports at which our vessels call also may increase our costs. Our revenue is influenced by a number of factors that are difficult to predict with certainty, including global and regional economic conditions, developments in international trade, changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, the effects of global climate change on developing economies and agricultural production, weather patterns, port congestion, canal closures, political developments, armed conflicts, acts of terrorism, embargoes and strikes. Demand for our transportation services is influenced by the demand for the goods we ship, including steel products, agricultural commodities, metal concentrates and aggregates, which in turn is affected by general economic conditions, commodity prices and competition. Steel products, agricultural commodities, metal concentrates and aggregates accounted for approximately 24.2%, 20.7%, 15.1%, and 13.5%, respectively, of our total voyage revenues in 2009. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 and continuing through most of 2009 the worldwide economy experienced a sluggish demand for steel products, metal concentrates, agricultural commodities, and aggregates. The softened demand for products and commodities translated into a decreased demand for shipping. However, a future worsening of worldwide economic conditions could result in a decrease in demand for steel products, metal concentrates, agricultural commodities, and aggregates, which could adversely affect our results of operations.Our business depends to a significant degree on the stability and growth of the Asian and Latin American economies. Freight rates for dry bulk transport, whether computed on a spot or period basis, were at or near all-time highs in 2008 as compared to prior years, as were prices for both new and secondhand vessels. The strength of the shipping industry in the past several years has been attributable, to a significant degree, to the rapid growth of the Chinese economy. Economic growth in China caused unprecedented demand for raw materials from Latin America, including iron ore, bauxite, soybeans, timber, zinc, manganese and copper. These raw materials generally are transported by ocean freight. The growth of the Chinese economy stimulated growth in other Asian economies as well. Any pronounced slowdown or decline in the Chinese economy could be expected to have significant adverse effects on the economies of Latin American and Asian countries and on the demand for our services and could be expected to result in declines in freight rates and the value of our vessels. We expect that a significant decline in the Asian and Latin American economies would have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. Table of Contents 19 High or volatile oil prices could adversely affect the global economy and our results of operations. As oil prices continue to fluctuate, and experience periods of prolonged volatility, the global economy could weaken significantly. A global recession would significantly reduce the demand for ocean freight while our fuel costs could increase. A significant reduction in the demand for ocean freight combined with increased fuel costs would have a material and adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have increased recently in frequency and magnitude, which could adversely affect our business. Beginning in 2008, acts of piracy have risen steeply. While international efforts have been and continue to be made to prevent them, acts of piracy continue to occur, particularly off the coast of Somalia in the Gulf of Aden and in the South China Sea. If piracy attacks occur in regions in which our vessels are deployed, that are characterized by insurers as ‘‘war risk’’ zones or ‘‘war and strikes’’ listed areas, premiums payable for such insurance coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. Crew costs, including those due to employing on-board security guards, could increase in such circumstances. In addition, while we believe the time charterer remains liable for charter payments when a vessel is seized by pirates for the period specified in the charter agreement, the charterer may dispute this and withhold charter fees until the vessel is released. A charterer may also claim that a vessel seized by pirates was not "on-hire" for a certain number of days and it is therefore entitled to cancel the charter, a claim that we would dispute. The detention of any of our vessels hijacked as a result of an act of piracy and any unrecoverable costs, increases in insurance premiums payable, or losses due to the unavailability of insurance coverage, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In the highly competitive international shipping market, we may not be able to compete with new entrants or established companies with greater resources. We employ our vessels in highly competitive markets that are capital-intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, many of whom have substantially greater resources than we have. Competition for the transportation of cargo by sea is intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter our market and operate larger fleets through consolidation or acquisitions and may be able to offer lower rates and higher quality vessels than we are able to offer. Worldwide increases in shipping capacity may further reduce shipping rates, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The worldwide supply of shipping capacity is influenced by the type of vessel, number of newbuilding deliveries, the scrapping of older vessels, vessel casualties and the number of vessels that are out of service. An excess in shipping capacity, particularly dry bulk carriers, may result in a reduction of shipping rates, which may adversely affect the profitability of our shipping services. Failure to comply with international safety regulations could subject us to increased liability, adversely affect our insurance coverage and result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements of the International Maritime Organization's International Safety Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or the ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive "Safety Management System" that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. Any failure to comply with the ISM Code could subject us to increased liability, could invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and could result in a denial of, access to, or detention in certain ports, all of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. Table of Contents 20 We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances; strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance program, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or negligent acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Compliance with environmental and other laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. Extensive and changing environmental protection and other laws and regulations directly affect the operation of our vessels. These laws and regulations take the form of international conventions and agreements, including the International Maritime Organization, or IMO, conventions and regulations and the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, or SOLAS, which are applicable to all internationally traded vessels, and national, state and local laws and regulations, all of which are amended frequently. Under these laws and regulations, various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies and other regulatory authorities may require us to obtain permits, licenses and certificates in connection with our operations. Some countries in which we operate have laws that restrict the carriage of cargoes depending on the registry of a vessel, the nationality of its crew and prior and future ports of call, as well as other considerations relating to particular national interest. An increasing number of jurisdictions also regulate the sulfur content of fuel used by our vessels. Changes in governmental regulations and safety or other equipment standards, the passage of new regulations or standards in response to global climate change, may require unbudgeted expenditures for alterations, special surveys, drydocking or the addition of new equipment for our vessels or increased fuel and operating costs Port authorities in various jurisdictions may demand that repairs be made before allowing a vessel to sail, even though that vessel may be certified as "in class" and in compliance with all relevant maritime conventions. Compliance with these laws and regulations may require significant expenditures, including expenses for ship modifications and changes in operating procedures or penalties for failure to comply with these laws and regulations, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Pursuant to regulations promulgated by the U.S. Coast Guard, responsible parties (as defined in such regulations) must establish and maintain evidence of financial responsibility. The P&I Associations, which historically provided shipowners and operators financial assurance, have refused to furnish evidence of insurance to responsible parties, and therefore responsible parties have obtained financial assurance from other sources at additional cost, including evidence of surety bond, guaranty or by self-insurance. In addition, in recent years the U.S. Coast Guard has increased its inspection of vessels entering the United States to ensure they comply with applicable environmental regulations, including regulations related to the discharge of oil. Any inability on our part to continue to comply with any of these Coast Guard regulations would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Port State authorities in general and in certain jurisdictions in particular have become more active in inspecting older vessels visiting their ports and, in certain instances, demanding that repairs be made before allowing a vessel to sail, even though that vessel may be fully insured, in class and in compliance with all relevant maritime conventions including SOLAS. Vessels under certain flags are more likely to be subject to inspections by the coast guard. Additional expenses may be incurred for unscheduled repairs mandated by port state authorities. Table of Contents 21 The IMO has adopted regulations that are designed to reduce oil pollution in international waters. In complying with U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA 90 and IMO regulations and other regulations that may be adopted, shipowners and operators may be forced to incur additional costs in meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. Additional laws and regulations may be adopted that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In the United States and in other countries where we operate, we are subject to various federal, state or local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations and may be required to clean up environmental contamination resulting from a discharge of oil or hazardous substances, such as a discharge of fuel. We also may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties in connection with the contamination. These laws typically impose cleanup responsibility. Liability under these laws has been interpreted to be strict, joint and several, and subject to very limited statutory defenses. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of such substances and damages resulting from such releases could be substantial and could adversely affect our results of operations. The shipping industry has inherent operational risks, which may not be adequately covered by insurance. The operation of any ocean-going vessel carries with it an inherent risk of marine disaster, environmental mishaps and collision or property losses. In the course of operating a vessel, marine disasters such as oil spills and other environmental mishaps, cargo loss or damage, business interruption due to political developments, labor disputes, strikes and adverse weather conditions could result in loss of revenues, liabilities or increased costs. We transport bulk cargoes such as fertilizer, salt and coal which, if not transported properly, could pose a risk to our vessels and to the environment. We cannot assure you that any insurance we maintain would be sufficient to cover the cost of damages or the loss of income resulting from a vessel being removed from operation or that any insurance claims would be paid or that insurance will be obtainable at reasonable rates in the future. Any significant loss or liability for which we are not insured, or for which our insurers fail to pay us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, the loss of a vessel would adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Risk associated with the shipping industry could affect our business and reputation, which could adversely affect our results of operations and share price. As mentioned above, the operation of ocean-going vessels carries inherent risk of marine disaster and environmental mishap. The involvement of our vessels in a marine disaster or an environmental mishap will harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Marine claimants could arrest our vessels, which could damage our on-time performance reputation and result in a loss of cash flow. Under general maritime law in many jurisdictions, crew members, tort claimants, claimants for breach of certain maritime contracts, vessel mortgagors, suppliers of fuel, materials, goods and services to a vessel and shippers and consignees of cargo may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many circumstances, a maritime lien holder may bring an action to enforce its lien by "arresting" a vessel. In some jurisdictions, under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest not only the vessel subject to the claimant's maritime lien, but also any "associated" vessel owned or controlled by the legal or beneficial owner of that vessel. The arrest of one or more of our vessels could result in a loss of cash flow or require us to pay substantial amounts to have the arrest lifted. Any interruption in our sailing schedule and our on-time performance could adversely affect our customer relationships. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in a loss of earnings. A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes its owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes its charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. Table of Contents 22 Risks Factors Relating to Our Business Our competitive advantage in niche markets may be eliminated. Our fleet primarily consists of vessels suited to niche markets not efficiently served by container ships or large dry bulk vessels. If the markets in which we successfully compete upgrade their port infrastructure to accommodate larger vessels, or if the volume of cargo shipped from these markets increases sufficiently, container ships or large dry bulk vessels would be able to serve these markets more efficiently. Because operators of container ships and large dry bulk vessels have significantly lower costs per cargo ton than we do, their entry into our markets could result in increased price competition and affect our ability to maintain our rates. Our future operating results could be adversely affected if we are unable to identify and efficiently serve new niche markets in the face of more effective competition in our current markets. We depend upon a limited number of customers for a large part of our revenue. Our top ten customers by revenue accounted for a significant portion of our consolidated revenue. If any of these customers were to reduce significantly the amount of cargoes shipped on our vessels, our results of operations could be adversely affected. As our fleet ages, the risks associated with older vessels could adversely affect our operations. In general, the costs to maintain an ocean-going vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. As of December 31, 2009, the average age of the 48 vessels in our controlled fleet was 22 years. We estimate that the economic useful life of most multipurpose tweendeckers and handymax bulk carriers is approximately 30 years, depending on market conditions, the type of cargo being carried and the level of maintenance. Some of our dry bulk carriers are used to transport products such as coal, salt or fertilizer that may damage our vessels and reduce their useful lives, if we do not follow specified maintenance and cleaning routines. Older vessels may develop unexpected mechanical and operational problems despite adherence to regular survey schedules and proper maintenance. Due to improvements in engine technology, older vessels typically are less fuel-efficient than more recently constructed vessels. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel. Governmental regulations and safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that we will be able to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their projected useful lives or that we will be able to sell them profitably when we can no longer utilize them in our fleet. Certain of our expenses are primarily inelastic, and any unexpected decrease in revenue would harm us. Generally, expenses such as fuel, lube oil, crew wages, insurance, stores, repairs and maintenance do not vary significantly with the amount of cargo carried. As a result, a change in the tons of cargo carried or a decrease in freight rates would have a disproportionate effect on our operating and financial results. Any pronounced slowdown or decline in demand for shipping may require us to run voyages at less than full capacity in an effort to maintain all of our shipping routes. Our inability to fully book a ship would reduce revenue on each voyage while the vessel and voyage costs would remain fairly constant. We do not have long-term contracts with our customers and if we are unable to fully book our vessels, we may operate voyages at a loss. Additionally, we could be affected by factors beyond our control such as irrational pricing from the market. Accordingly our profitability and liquidity would be adversely affected. Table of Contents 23 We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our long-lived assets or goodwill becomes impaired. We are required to review for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Management performs impairment analyses when certain triggering events occur. Factors that would indicate potential impairment may include, but are not limited to, a significant decrease in the market value of the long-lived asset, a significant change in the long-lived asset’s physical condition, and operating or cash flow losses associated with the use of the long-lived asset. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our long-lived assets is determined. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the reporting unit’s carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, or other materially adverse events. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined. This may adversely impact our results of operations. As of December 31, 2009, our goodwill was $8.4 million. We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental laws that could require significant expenditures and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business and the operation of our vessels are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Because such conventions, laws, and regulations are often revised, we may not be able to predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws and regulations or the impact thereof on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted, which could limit our ability to do business, cause us to incur the costs of retrofitting our vessels or result in financial penalties, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We also are affected by the requirements of the ISM Code. The ISM Code mandates an extensive "Safety Management System" that includes, among other things, the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for operating vessels safely and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. Material noncompliance with the ISM Code may subject shipowners or bareboat charterers to increased liability, may lead to decreases in available insurance coverage for affected vessels and may result in the denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. Our owned vessels and Roymar, the technical manager for our vessels, are ISM Code certified. However, we cannot assure you that such certification will be maintained indefinitely. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies and other regulatory authorities to obtain permits, licenses and certificates in connection with our operations. Some countries in which we operate, have laws that restrict the carriage of cargoes depending on the registry of a vessel, the nationality of its crew and prior and future ports of call, as well as other considerations relating to particular national interest. We cannot assure you that any failure to comply with these requirements would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Vessel drydockings could adversely affect our operations. We anticipate that we will have an average of approximately 19 vessels per year being drydocked, based on our current controlled fleet of 48 vessels and the requirement to drydock each vessel twice during a five-year cycle. During 2010, we expect to drydock 17 vessels, including two vessels, which entered drydock in November and December 2008. In addition, we will need to reposition our vessels or charter-in outside vessels to accommodate our drydocking schedule and business needs. Approximately 30 of our vessels regularly trade in the Atlantic and Middle East region; consequently, drydocking our vessels in Chinese shipyards require complex logistics planning. We are investigating having the drydockings done at shipyards closer to where some of our vessels trade. The loss of earnings while the vessel is being drydocked, as well as the repositioning of our vessels in response to the drydocking and the actual costs of the drydocking and possible charter-in expense in response to the drydocking, could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. Table of Contents 24 Our vessels may suffer damage and we may need to unexpectedly drydock a vessel, which could adversely affect our operations. If a vessel suffers damage, it may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. The loss of earnings while the vessel is being repaired and the repositioning of our vessels in response to the unexpected drydocking, as well as the actual costs of the repairs, would have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. We may not have insurance that is sufficient to cover all of these costs or losses. Construction delays or mechanical faults could affect our ability to replace aging vessels or grow our vessel fleet. We depend on China Communications Construction Company Ltd. and Nantong Yahua Shipbuilding Group Co., Ltd. to construct and deliver the new multipurpose tweendeckers that we contracted to purchase on a timely basis and in good working order. The complicated nature of building these kinds of vessels involves risks. Delays or mechanical faults in vessel construction may affect our ability to increase cargo volumes on key routes or to win new customers and could necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs of vessels. Shipyard insolvency and other industrial actions could also delay or indefinitely postpone the timely delivery of new vessels. Construction delays or mechanical faults in new vessels could have a material adverse effect on our ability to replace aging vessels, our ability to grow our vessel fleet, our cash flows and our results of operations. There are risks associated with the operation of secondhand vessels. Part of our previous business strategy involved growing our fleet through the purchase of secondhand vessels. Global economic conditions and the reduction in demand for shipping services have caused us to reevaluate acquiring secondhand vessels. Pending any dramatic change in global economic conditions we have decided to suspend any further acquisitions of secondhand vessels. Secondhand vessels generally carry no warranties from the sellers or manufacturers. Although we inspected secondhand vessels prior to purchase, an inspection normally would not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have if they had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Secondhand vessels may have conditions or defects that we were not aware of when we bought the vessel and that may require us to undertake costly repairs. These repairs may require us to put a vessel into drydock, which would reduce our fleet utilization. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may not have insurance that is sufficient to cover all of these repair costs or losses and may have to pay drydocking costs not covered by our insurance. The loss of earnings while our vessels were being repaired in drydock and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of those repairs, would decrease our income from operations. Additionally, our future operating results could be adversely affected if some of the secondhand vessels do not perform as we expect. The market values of our vessels, which have declined from historically high levels, may fluctuate significantly, which could cause us to breach covenants in our credit facilities and result in foreclosure of the vessels securing such credit facilities. The shipping industry historically has experienced volatility in vessel valuations. The market value of vessels is highly volatile and will continue to fluctuate depending on economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry and prevailing charter hire rates, vessel supply and rates of vessel scrapping, competition from other shipping companies and other modes of transportation, types, sizes and age of vessels, applicable governmental regulations and the cost of newbuildings. The market price for secondhand vessels during the past few years had been at all-time highs; however, in late 2008 market prices of all vessel types declined when shipping rates began to fall. This decline in market price continued until late 2009 when market prices began to stabilize. If the market value of our fleet were to decline again we may be in breach of the collateral covenants again and we may be unable to remedy the relevant breach. Our lenders could then accelerate our debt and foreclose on our controlled fleet. Table of Contents 25 We may not be able to grow our vessel fleet or effectively manage our growth. A principal focus of our long-term strategy is to continue to grow by increasing the number of vessels in our fleet and by taking advantage of changing market conditions, which may include increasing the frequency of service on routes we already operate or adding new routes and expanding into other regions. Our future growth will depend upon a number of factors, some of which we or our affiliated service company, TBS Commercial Group, can control and some of which TBS Commercial Group or we cannot control. These factors include our ability to: ● identify vessels for acquisitions; ● integrate any acquired vessels successfully with our existing operations; ● hire, train and retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; ● identify additional new markets and trade routes; ● recruit, train and retain the port captains and other local staff required for our affiliated service companies to provide the necessary level of service in any new or expanded markets; ● improve our operating and financial systems and controls; and ● obtain required financing for our existing and new operations on acceptable terms. The failure to effectively identify, purchase, develop and integrate any newly acquired vessels could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate as we expand the size of our fleet and our attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. As our fleet expands, we may have excess capacity if demand for our services does not grow as we expect. In addition, as we expand our fleet, our service companies will need to hire suitable additional management and administrative personnel and our affiliated service companies will need to recruit and train port captains and other local staff necessary to meet the needs of our growing business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to hire suitable employees as we expand our business. If our operating and financial systems are not effective or if we or our affiliated service companies cannot recruit and retain suitable employees as we grow, our future operations could be adversely affected. We may be unable to pass along increased fuel costs to our customers. A majority of our revenue is derived from freight voyages for which we bear the fuel expense, in contrast to charters, for which the charterer bears the fuel expense. Fuel expense represented approximately 49% of our voyage expense for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to approximately 51% in 2008 and 44% in 2007. If we are unable to pass along increased fuel costs to our customers, high oil prices could adversely affect our results of operations. Shortages of qualified crews, engineers and vessel captains could adversely affect our business. Newbuilding programs, including our own, have increased the demand for qualified crew, engineers and vessel captains to work on our vessels, and stringent certification standards required by national and international regulations, such as "Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers" promulgated by the IMO, make it difficult to recruit qualified crewmembers. In 2009 we used four unaffiliated manning agents, Aboitiz Jebsen Bulk Transport Corp., Intermodal Shipping, Inc., Magsaysay Maritime Corp. and C. F. Sharp Crew Management, Inc. to provide Filipino officers and non-officers to crew our vessels. If we are unable to recruit and retain enough crew, engineers or vessel captains with the appropriate skills, we may be unable to satisfy any increased demand for our shipping services, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Rising crew costs may adversely affect our results of operations. Crew costs are a significant operating expense for our operations. The cost of employing suitable crew is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including the supply and demand for crew and the wages paid by other shipping companies. Any increase in crew costs may adversely affect our profitability. Table of Contents 26 If we have U.S. source income, we will have to pay U.S. federal income tax on it, which would reduce our earnings. Under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as amended), or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a corporation that owns or charters vessels that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as U.S. source transportation income. Our U.S. source transportation income will be subject to either a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for any deductions or, if such income is effectively connected with business in the United States, a net basis tax at regular graduated U.S. federal income tax rates, and, possibly, an additional 30% branch profits tax on our effectively connected earnings and profits, unless an exemption is available. We currently qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code, because International and its subsidiaries currently are incorporated in jurisdictions that satisfy the country of organization requirement and we satisfy the publicly traded test by virtue of International’s Class A ordinary being primarily traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Further, the aggregate ownership of all non-qualified 5% shareholders is less than 50% of the total value of the Class A ordinary shares. If at any time we fail to satisfy the publicly traded test and we were unable to qualify for another applicable exemption, our U.S. source shipping income would be subject to U.S. federal income tax. Our ability to continue to qualify for the exemption depends on circumstances related to the ownership of our ordinary shares that are beyond our control and on interpretations of existing regulations of the U.S. Treasury Department. In particular, if 50% or more of our Class A ordinary shares are held by one or more non-qualified U.S. shareholders, each of whom owns 5% or more of the shares, the exemption would not be available. At December 31, 2009, non-qualified U.S. shareholders who own 5% or more of our shares owned an aggregate of 20.2% of our Class A ordinary shares. We cannot assure you that we will qualify for exemption under Section 883 in the future. Changes in the Code, the Treasury regulations or the interpretation thereof by the Internal Revenue Service or the courts could also adversely affect our ability to take advantage of the exemption under Section 883. We may be treated as a passive foreign investment company in the future, which would result in adverse tax consequences to holders of our Class A ordinary shares. Based upon the nature of our current and projected income, assets and activities, we do not believe that we are, and we do not expect the Class A ordinary shares to be considered shares of a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, the determination of whether the Class A ordinary shares constitute shares of a PFIC is a factual determination made annually, and we cannot assure you that we will not be considered a PFIC in the future. If we are treated as a PFIC, a holder of our Class A ordinary shares would be subject to special rules with respect to any gain realized on the sale or other disposition of the Class A ordinary shares and any "excess distribution" by us to the holder (generally, any distribution during a taxable year in which distributions to the holder on the Class A ordinary shares exceed 125% of the average annual taxable distribution the holder received on the Class A ordinary shares during the preceding three taxable years or, if shorter, the holder’s holding period for the Class A ordinary shares). Under those rules, the gain or excess distribution would be allocated ratably over the holder’s holding period for the Class A ordinary shares, the amount allocated to the taxable year in which the gain or excess distribution is realized and to taxable years before the first day we became a PFIC would be taxable as ordinary income, the amount allocated to each other year (with certain exceptions) would be subject to tax at the highest tax rate in effect for that year, and the interest charge generally applicable to underpayments of tax would be imposed in respect of the tax attributable to each such year. The majority of our revenue is derived from operations outside the United States and may be adversely affected by actions taken by foreign governments or other forces or events over which we have no control. We derive a significant portion of our voyage revenue from operations in Latin America, Asia, Africa and the Middle East. Our profitability will be affected by changing economic, political and social conditions in these regions. In particular, our operations may be affected by war, terrorism, piracy, expropriation of vessels, the imposition of taxes, increased regulation or other circumstances, any of which could reduce our profitability, impair our assets or cause us to curtail our operations. The economies of the Latin American countries where we conduct operations have been volatile and subject to prolonged, repeated downturns, recessions and depressions. Adverse economic or political developments or conflicts in these countries could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Table of Contents 27 We have experienced losses and filed for bankruptcy in 2000. We filed for bankruptcy in 2000. Our ability to generate net income is influenced by a number of factors that are difficult to predict, including changes in global and regional economic conditions and international trade. For example, the losses and bankruptcy in 2000 were attributable in part to the acute decline in the Asian and South American economies in 1998 and 1999. Foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We incur approximately 8% of our operating expenses in currencies other than U.S. dollars. At December 31, 2009, approximately 9% of our outstanding accounts payable were denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Therefore, when the U.S. dollar weakens in relation to the currencies of the countries where we incur expenses, our U.S. dollar reported expenses increase and our income will decrease. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our operating results. Risk Factors Related to Our Financings We may not be able to obtain an extension of waivers for financial ratios and financial covenants that expire on April 1, 2010. In late December 2009, we obtained an extension of waivers for financial ratios and other financial covenants through April 1, 2010 from all our credit facilities. The financial ratios, which are tested quarterly, are based on earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for the previous four quarters. As a result of the weak economic conditions and their effects on the shipping industry during 2009, it is probable that we would be in violation of the leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios after the waivers expire. We may be required to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives to meet these financial ratios or obtain future waivers or loan modifications to keep us from being in breach of the covenants. If we are unable to obtain additional waivers or loan modifications, lenders could elect to declare the debt, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against the collateral securing that debt. We cannot assure you that we will obtain the waivers or loan modifications, and any inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our indebtedness could affect our ability to provide strong results to the holders of our Class A ordinary shares. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to investors, including: ● Increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions by making it more difficult for us to react quickly to changing conditions; ● Our level of debt may limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; ● We may be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations for the payment of interest on our debt which would reduce our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; ● While most of our debt is covered under swap agreements, we do have some exposure to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because some of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which could result in a higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates; ● Our current debt could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, and the industry in which we operate; ● Our banks could demand mandatory prepayment or delivery of additional security in the event that the fair market value of the vessels falls below limits specified in the loan agreement; and ● We could be at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have less indebtedness. Table of Contents 28 Our credit facilities require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial covenants. Events beyond our control, including changes in the economic and business conditions in the markets in which we operate, may affect our ability to comply with these covenants. We cannot assure you that we will meet these ratios or satisfy these covenants or that our lenders will waive any failure to do so. A breach of any of the covenants or our inability to maintain the required financial ratios under our credit facilities would result in a default. If a default occurs under any of our credit facilities, the lender could elect to declare that debt, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against the collateral securing that debt, which constitutes all or substantially all of our assets. Moreover, any acceleration of the debt outstanding under the credit facilities or other agreements upon a declaration of default could result in a default under our other credit facilities. If we default under any of our loan agreements, we could forfeit our rights in our vessels and their charters. We have pledged all of our vessels as security to the lenders under our loan agreements. Default under any of these loan agreements, if not waived or modified, would permit the lenders to foreclose on the mortgages over the vessels, and we could lose our rights in the vessels and their charters. Our credit facilities currently impose, and it is possible that any additional debt incurred could impose, significant operating and financial restrictions on us. The indenture governing our asset-based revolving credit facility debt does, and future agreements may, contain covenants that could limit our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs, make acquisitions or pursue available business opportunities. Our credit facilities restrict, among other things, our ability to: · incur additional indebtedness or issue certain capital or preferred stock; · pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase, our shares or make other restricted payments and investments; · create certain liens; · transfer or sell assets; · agree to certain restrictions on the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make payments to us; · amalgamate, merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of our properties and assets; · engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and · designate unrestricted subsidiaries. These provisions impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, and it is possible that additional debt may include further restrictions upon us. Table of Contents 29 We will require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate sufficient cash depends upon many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our indebtedness and to fund working capital needs and planned capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate adequate cash flow in the future. To some extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, and regulatory factors and other factors that are beyond our control. For example, we need to drydock vessels and make constant upgrades to vessels which could increase our working capital needs. We cannot give assurance that our business will continue to generate cash flow from operations at current levels or that our cash needs will not increase. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our indebtedness and meet our other needs, we may have to refinance all or a portion of our existing indebtedness, obtain additional financing, reduce expenditures that we deem necessary to do business. We cannot give assurance that any refinancing of this kind would be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained or could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. The inability to obtain additional financing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and on our ability to meet our financing obligations. The market values of vessels under construction could decline, which could cause us to fund more of the purchase from working capital. We rely on The Royal Bank of Scotland Credit Facility, which we refer to as the RBS Credit Facility, to finance a large portion of the scheduled payments as they come due under the shipbuilding contracts. Any decline in the market value of vessels under construction could cause us to fund a larger portion of each installment due under the shipbuilding contract. In the absence of other available funds to pay the higher portion of the installments due would cause us to be in default under the shipbuilding contract, which would cause a default in the RBS Credit Facility. A default in our credit facilities would result in possible foreclosure of vessels securing such credit facilities. Any default under our credit facilities would result in a default of all our credit facilities. In such a case our rights to our vessels, including our rights to vessels under the shipbuilding contracts, would be subject to foreclosure by the applicable creditor. A payment default under the shipbuilding contract would give the shipyard the right to terminate the contract. A payment default under a shipbuilding contract would give the shipyard the right to terminate the contract without any further obligation to finish construction and we would lose the right to all payments made for the undelivered vessel. It may also give the shipyard rights against us for having failed to make the required payments. Any default under our credit facilities would result in a default of the RBS Credit Facility and a default under the associated shipbuilding contract. In such a case our rights to the vessels under the related shipbuilding contracts would be subject to foreclosure by the applicable creditor and the holders of our indebtedness would demand immediate payment in full. A payment default under a shipbuilding contract would give the shipyard the right to terminate the contract without any further obligation to finish construction and may give it rights against us for having failed to make the required payments. Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Certain portions of some of our borrowings, primarily our RBS loan, are, and are expected to continue to be, at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. Most of our loans are hedged. However, if interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same and our net income would decrease. Pursuant to the indenture governing certain loans, we were required to enter into interest rate swaps, involving the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments, or other forms of derivative transactions, to reduce interest rate volatility. Table of Contents 30 The international nature of our operations may make the outcome of any bankruptcy proceedings difficult to predict. We are incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Ireland and most of our subsidiaries are incorporated under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. Our operations are conducted in countries around the world. Consequently, in the event of any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceedings involving us or one of our subsidiaries, bankruptcy laws other than those of the United States could apply. We have limited operations in the United States. If we become a debtor under the United States bankruptcy laws, bankruptcy courts in the United States may seek to assert jurisdiction over all of our assets, wherever located, including property situated in other countries. There can be no assurance, however, that we would become a debtor in the United States or that a United States bankruptcy court would be entitled to, or accept, jurisdiction over such bankruptcy case or that courts in other countries that have jurisdiction over us and our operations would recognize a United States bankruptcy court’s jurisdiction if any other bankruptcy court would determine it had jurisdiction. Risks Factors Relating to Our Corporate Structure International, the issuer of our ordinary shares, is a holding company and depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to distribute funds to it in order to meet its financial obligations. International, the issuer of our ordinary shares, is a holding company with no significant assets other than the shares of capital stock of its subsidiaries that conduct all of its operations and own all of its vessels. International derives all of its cash flow from dividends and other payments from its subsidiaries, which in turn derive all of their cash flows from payments from their direct and indirect operations. We have relied, and will continue to rely, to a significant degree upon affiliated service companies. We have relied upon and will continue to rely upon TBS Commercial Group and Beacon Holdings Ltd., both affiliated service companies, for agency services that are critical to our business. These companies employ sales and customer service professionals who meet with shippers and consignees to anticipate the needs and address the concerns of our customers. Our business, results of operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected if we lose our relationship with TBS Commercial Group or Beacon Holdings Ltd., or they become unable to perform these services or their key employees leave their respective company. TBS Commercial Group is a privately held company, and there is little or no publicly available information about it. The ability of TBS Commercial Group to continue providing critical services for our benefit will depend in part on its own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair its financial strength and, because TBS Commercial Group is privately held, it is unlikely that information about its financial strength would become public. As a result, an investor in our Class A ordinary shares might have little advance warning of problems affecting TBS Commercial Group, even though these problems could have a material adverse effect on us. The interests of our controlling shareholders could be adverse to your interests as a public shareholder. Our executive officers who control TBS Commercial Group and Beacon Holdings Ltd. could use their positions with us and in TBS Commercial Group or Beacon Holdings Ltd. to shift revenues and operating income from us to TBS Commercial Group or Beacon Holdings Ltd., for their individual benefit and contrary to the interests of our public shareholders. For example, these individuals could cause us to pay above-market fees to TBS Commercial Group or Beacon Holdings Ltd. or to permit TBS Commercial Group or Beacon Holdings Ltd. to take advantage of corporate opportunities. We cannot assure you that these potential conflicts of interest will be handled in the best interests of our public shareholders or holders of our debt. Table of Contents 31 Risk Factors Related to Our Ordinary Shares and Our Jurisdiction of Incorporation In December 2009, shareholders voted in favor of a reorganization proposal pursuant to which TBS International Ltd. common shares would be cancelled and holders of such shares would receive ordinary shares of TBS International plc on a one-to-one basis. The reorganization transaction was completed on January 6, 2010, at which time TBS International plc, an Irish company, replaced TBS International Ltd. as the ultimate parent company for our operations. Shares of TBS International plc began trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on January 7, 2010 under the symbol "TBSI," the same symbol under which TBS International Ltd. shares were previously traded. Our memorandum and articles of association contains provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions will provide for our Board of Directors to determine the powers, preferences and rights of our preference shares and to issue the preference shares without shareholder approval. We have anti-takeover provisions in our memorandum and articles of association that may discourage a change of control. Our articles of association contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. Specifically, our Board of Directors has the power to determine the powers, preferences and rights of our preference shares and to issue the preference shares without shareholder approval. Irish law does not expressly prohibit companies from issuing share purchase rights or adopting a shareholder rights plan as an anti-takeover measure. While a plan would, however be subject to the Irish Takeover Rules (including the prohibition on our Board of Directors from taking action which might frustrate an offer where an approach has been received or is believed to be imminent), these powers of our Board of Directors to issue shares outlined above could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party's offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. It may be difficult for shareholders to enforce judgments against us or our directors and executive officers. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us in Ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. One of our directors is not a resident of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process on those persons in the United States or to enforce in the United States judgments obtained in U.S. courts against us or those persons based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the United States currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any U.S. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Ireland. Table of Contents 32 Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Irish Companies Act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders. These differences include, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. In addition, the duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against a company’s directors or officers and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of our ordinary shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. A future transfer of your ordinary shares may be subject to Irish stamp duty. Transfers by shareholders who hold their ordinary shares beneficially through banks, brokers, trustees, custodians or other nominees, which in turn hold those shares through the Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation, or DTC, will generally not be subject to Irish stamp duty where such transfers are to holders who also hold through DTC. If you hold your ordinary shares directly rather than beneficially, any purchase of your shares will be subject to Irish stamp duty. Irish stamp duty is currently levied at the rate of 1% of the price paid or the market value of the ordinary shares acquired, if higher. Any transfer of ordinary shares which is subject to Irish stamp duty will not be registered in the name of the buyer unless an instrument of transfer is executed by or on behalf of the seller, is duly stamped and is provided to our transfer agent. The potential for stamp duty could adversely affect the price of ordinary shares. Dividends you receive may be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax. In certain circumstances, as an Irish tax resident company, we may be required to deduct Irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to our shareholders. The majority of shareholders will generally not be subject to Irish withholding tax provided that, in each case, they complete certain tax forms. Legislative or regulatory action could materially and adversely affect us. Our tax position could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by any tax authority. For example, legislative proposals have been introduced in the U.S. Congress which, if enacted, could override tax treaties upon which we expect to rely, or could change the circumstances under which we would be treated as a U.S. person for U.S. federal income tax purposes, each of which could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate and require us to take further action, at potentially significant expense, to seek to preserve our effective tax rate. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. However, if proposals were enacted limiting our ability as an Irish company to take advantage of the tax treaties between Ireland and the United States, we could be subjected to increased taxation and/or potentially significant expense. In addition, any future amendments to the current income tax treaties between Ireland and other jurisdictions (including the United States) could subject us to increased taxation and/or potentially significant expense. Also, various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced and/or enacted in recent years that deny government contracts to certain U.S. companies that reincorporate or have reincorporated outside the United States. While the Company was not a U.S. company that moved outside the United States, our move to Ireland may not eliminate therisk that these contract bans and other legislative proposals could be enacted in a way to affect us. As an Irish company, we are required to comply with numerous Irish and European Union legal requirements. Compliance with the laws and regulations of Ireland and the European Union may have a material and adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Table of Contents 33 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 