Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully read the risks and uncertainties described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our Class A common stock could fall. Risks Related to Our Business We are in default under our 2008 Credit Facility with our senior secured lenders, which defaults are addressed in a certain Forbearance Agreement and Fifth Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated as of July 29, 2013, as amended (the “Forbearance Agreement”). The Forbearance Agreement currently expires on December 6, 2013, at which time our senior secured lenders can accelerate the obligations owed under our credit agreement and exercise their rights and remedies in connection therewith. In addition, our senior secured lenders have the right, under the Forbearance Agreement, to accelerate our obligations under the credit agreement prior to December 6, 2013 if we default under or otherwise violate the provisions of the Forbearance Agreement. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and holders of our Class A common stock could lose their entire investment. The Company has been in violation of the Net Senior Debt to EBITDA financial covenant under its 2008 Credit Facility since March 29, 2013 and has received a Default Notice from GE Business Financial Services Inc., as the Lenders Agent. The Default Notice states that the lenders are not required to make further loans or incur further obligations under the revolving loan portion of the 2008 Credit Facility and are entitled to exercise any and all default-related rights and remedies under the 2008 Credit Facility. As of June 28, 2013, we had approximately $15.2 million in short-term debt due under the 2008 Credit Facility. We do not currently have sufficient cash to repay this indebtedness. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm includes an explanatory paragraph concerning conditions that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to continue to operate our business. Effective as of July 29, 2013 we entered into the Forbearance Agreement whereby our senior secured lenders, among other things, agreed to forbear from exercising their rights and remedies under the 2008 Credit Facility based on defaults thereunder until October 31, 2013. Effective as of October 21, 2013, our senior secured creditors agreed to extend the October 31, 2013 termination date to December 6, 2013 based on the progress that we have made in our efforts to develop a strategic alternative. Upon termination of, or default under, the Forbearance Agreement, the 2008 Credit Facility provides that our senior secured lenders can exercise any and all rights and remedies available to them, including that the holders of 50% or more of the outstanding principal amount under the 2008 Credit Facility can accelerate our obligations under the 2008 Credit Facility and require payment of the full outstanding principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. As part of the Forbearance Agreement the interest rate on our debt was increased to the default rate, which is our current interest rate plus 2% effective from and after April 4, 2013. Since the July 29, 2013 effective date of the Forbearance Agreement we have repaid $1.3 million of the outstanding debt under the 2008 Credit Facility, reducing the outstanding balance from $15.2 million as of June 28, 2013 to $14.0 million as of the date of this report. An additional $0.2 million repayment is due on or before December 1, 2013. On July 29, 2013, we announced we had engaged an international firm providing financial advisory and strategy consulting services to advise the Company on strategic alternatives, including identifying and evaluating potential business combination transactions and refinancing structures. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on our ability to successfully execute a strategic alternative such as a business combination or a refinancing of the amounts due under the 2008 Credit Facility. If we are unable to either complete a business combination or refinance the amounts due under the 2008 Credit Facility by December 6, 2013 then our senior secured lenders could exercise their rights and remedies thereunder, including accelerating the debt, which would require us to repay immediately up to approximately $13.8 million to such lenders. We do not currently have sufficient cash to repay this indebtedness. The inability to refinance or restructure our debt would have a material adverse effect on the solvency of the Company and our ability to continue as a going concern. If our lenders exercised their rights and remedies as described herein, then the proceeds of the assets constituting their collateral could be insufficient to repay the indebtedness owed to them in full, and therefore holders of our Class A common stock could lose their entire investment. Under these circumstances we may be unable to continue operating as a going concern. In addition, the presence of the going concern explanatory paragraph may have an adverse impact on our relationship with third parties with whom we do business, including our customers, vendors and employees and could make it challenging and difficult for us to raise additional debt or equity financing to the extent needed, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents All obligations under the 2008 Credit Facility are unconditionally guaranteed by the immediate holding Company parent of DynaVox Systems LLC and each of DynaVox Systems LLC’s existing and future wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries. The 2008 Credit Facility and the related guarantees are secured by substantially all of DynaVox Systems LLC’s present and future assets and all present and future assets of each guarantor on a first lien basis. In the event of an acceleration of our obligations and our failure to pay the amount that would then become due, the holders of the 2008 Credit Facility could seek to foreclose on our assets, as a result of which we would likely need to seek protection under the provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In that event, we could seek to reorganize our business or attempt to sell our business/assets as a going concern. The Company could also be forced into a chapter 7 liquidation, under which a chapter 7 trustee could be required to liquidate our assets. In any of these events, whether the stockholders receive any value for their shares is highly uncertain. If we needed to liquidate our assets, we might realize significantly less from them than the value that could be obtained in a transaction outside of a bankruptcy proceeding. The funds resulting from the liquidation of our assets would be used first to pay off the debt owed to secured and unsecured creditors, including the lenders under the 2008 Credit Facility, before any funds would be available to pay our stockholders. If we are required to liquidate under the federal bankruptcy laws, it is unlikely that stockholders would receive any value for their shares. For a more detailed discussion of our 2008 Credit Facility, see “Part II - Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We have limited liquidity and may need to arrange for additional liquidity on terms that are unfavorable to our stockholders, if we are able to obtain additional liquidity at all. Our liquidity remains constrained such that it may not be sufficient to meet our cash operating needs in the short-term. Our ability to fund our working capital needs and capital expenditures is limited by the net cash provided by operations and cash on hand. Our liquidity problems have worsened as a result of our default under our 2008 Credit Facility. Additional declines in net cash provided by operations or changes in the credit our suppliers provide to us could rapidly exhaust our liquidity. Our inability to increase our liquidity would adversely impact our future performance, operations and results of operations and our ability to continue as a going concern. The current adverse economic environment, including the associated impact on government budgets, could continue to adversely affect our business. In late 2008 and early 2009, the U.S. and global economies deteriorated significantly, and although the economic, financial and credit market crises have somewhat abated, they continue to contribute to market turbulence and weakness. These factors continue to impact global economic conditions, raise heightened concerns about a prolonged global economic recession and have resulted in a significant loss of corporate earnings and consumer spending. As a result, tax revenue for federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign governments, has decreased substantially. In response to the reduced revenue, governments have cut funding and may continue to cut funding to public programs, including schools and healthcare. We experienced a softening of demand, as compared to our recent historical growth rates, for both our speech generating devices and software products beginning in fiscal year 2011. Although demand improved in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 as net sales increased 21.4% compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, net sales for fiscal year 2012 decreased 10.0% compared to fiscal year 2011, and net sales for fiscal year 2013 decreased 33.3% compared to fiscal year 2012. We believe that reduced domestic government funding, and particularly more constrained state and local government funding of school budgets, together with technology advances such as tablet computers, has continued to adversely affect our product sales in the United States during this time period. We have not seen any material improvement in the demand for both our speech generating devices and software products, and we cannot predict when, and if, such improvement might occur. The majority of the funding for purchases of our special education software and content and a significant portion of the funding for purchases of our speech generating devices comes from the budgets of public schools. Our speech generating technology business is also dependent on funding from Medicare or Medicaid or other state or local government sources. Many state and local government agencies operate under tight budget constraints and make choices on a yearly basis of where to allocate funds. If government agencies continue to redirect funds from special education programs, Medicaid programs or other disability programs to alternative projects, our net sales and results of operations could continue to be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Changes in funding for public schools could cause the demand for our speech generating devices, special education software and content to continue to decrease. We derive a significant portion of both our speech generating devices and our special education software and content revenue from U.S. and non-U.S. public schools, which are heavily dependent on federal, state and local, as well as foreign, government funding. In addition, the school appropriations process is often slow, unpredictable and subject to many factors outside of our control. Curtailments, delays, changes in leadership, shifts in priorities or general reductions in funding could delay or reduce our revenue. Funding difficulties experienced by schools could also cause those institutions to be more resistant to price increases and could slow investments in educational products which could harm our business. Our business may be adversely affected by changes in state educational funding as a result of changes in legislation at the international, federal and state levels, changes in the state procurement process, changes in government leadership, emergence of other priorities and changes in the condition of the local, state, U.S. or global economy. While in the past few years the availability of state and federal funding for elementary and high school education has improved due to legislation such as No Child Left Behind, recent reductions in, and proposed elimination of, appropriations for these programs may cause some school districts to continue to reduce spending on our products. Reductions in funding for U.S. and non-U.S. public schools may harm our business if our customers are not able to find and obtain alternative sources of funding. Reforms to the United States healthcare system may adversely affect our business. Significant legislative reforms to the United States healthcare system have been enacted. While we do not expect this legislation to adversely affect our business, it is not certain what form regulations or policies promulgated thereunder could take or what effect such legislation or regulations, or additional future legislative and regulatory changes may have on our business or results of operations. It is possible that such regulations or policies or future reforms could include programs to reduce spending on healthcare-related products, which may include our speech generating technologies. Changes in third-party payor funding practices or preferences for alternatives may decrease the demand for, or put downward pressure on the price of, our speech generating devices. Customers for our speech generating devices typically receive funding from various third-party payors, including domestic and foreign governmental programs (such as Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care plans. The ability of our customers to obtain appropriate funding for our speech generating devices from domestic and foreign government and third-party payors is critical to our success. The availability and extent of coverage affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Funding varies from country to country and can significantly impact the acceptance of new products. After we develop a new speech generating device, we may experience limited demand for the product unless funding approval is obtained from private and governmental third-party payors in the United States and overseas. The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, established coverage for assistive technologies to address speech impairment in 2001, and since that time most private insurers have added such coverage as well. Payors continue to review their funding polices and can, without notice, deny coverage for our speech generating devices. Additionally, many private third-party payors base their funding policy decisions on the decision reached by governmental agencies such as Medicare or Medicaid. As a result of this, if Medicare or Medicaid alters its funding policy in an unfavorable way to us, the effects could be compounded if private insurers followed suit. CMS sets coverage policy for the Medicare program in the United States. CMS policies may alter coverage and payment related to our speech generating devices in the future. These changes may occur as the result of National Coverage Decisions issued by CMS directly or as the result of local or regional coverage decisions by contractors under contract with CMS to review and make coverage and payment decisions. Beginning in the second quarter of fiscal year 2012 we experienced a funding shift, as an alternative payor in a certain geographic region elected to discontinue its role as primary payor for speech generating devices and assumed the role of secondary payor behind other third party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance. For fiscal year 2013 we recorded approximately $3.4 million less in net device sales as a result of the funding shift as compared to fiscal year 2012. Our expectation is that we will continue to supply a portion of patients impacted by the funding shift with devices in the future through other third party payors, which historically have averaged between three and six months for final authorization compared to approximately 30 days for this specific alternative payor and which may have different reimbursement guidelines than this specific alternative payor. If we experience other funding shifts, our net device sales may be adversely affected. Legislative or administrative changes could reduce the availability and or timing of third-party funding for our speech generating devices. Legislative or administrative changes to the U.S. or international funding systems that significantly reduce or delay funding for our products or deny coverage for our products would have an adverse impact on the number of products purchased by our customers and the prices our customers are willing to pay for them, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents The loss of members of our senior management or other key personnel or the failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could compromise our ability to effectively manage our business. We rely on members of our senior management to execute our existing business plans and to identify and pursue new opportunities. The loss of services of one or more of our key senior managers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our future performance depends on the continued service of our key technical, development, sales, marketing and services personnel. We rely on our technical and development personnel for product innovation. We rely on our sales and marketing personnel to continue to expand awareness of our products and our customer base. The loss of key employees could result in significant disruptions to our business, and the integration of replacement personnel could be costly and time consuming, could cause additional disruptions to our business, and could be unsuccessful. We do not carry key person life insurance covering any of our employees. Our future success also depends on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, development, sales and services personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may fail to retain our key employees or attract or retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. We may not be able to develop and market successful new products. Our future success and our ability to increase net sales and earnings depend, in part, on our ability to develop and market new software, devices and content. Our failure to develop new products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if any of our new products do not work as planned, our ability to market these products could be substantially impeded, resulting in lost net sales, potential damage to our reputation and delays in obtaining market acceptance of these products. We cannot assure you that we will continue to successfully develop and market new products. New disruptive technologies may adversely affect our market position and financial results. Our competitors or companies in related industries could develop new technologies that may reduce our market share and adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. For example, other companies are seeking to develop technologies to allow a computer to be directly controlled by a human brain. If a competitor is able to commercialize that technology before we are, our sales of speech generating devices for people with significant physical limitations may be reduced. Also, speech generation software applications utilized on hand-held tablet computers not specifically designed for this purpose have become more popular and have adversely affected sales of our speech generating devices. Schools may also direct a higher percentage of their annual operating budgets to the purchase of hand-held tablet computers and the wireless infrastructure required to support them which could adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. We are dependent on the continued support of speech language pathologists and special education teachers. The majority of our speech generating technologies sales are made at the recommendation of a speech language pathologist, and the majority of our special education software authoring tools and content are sold to special education teachers. We are dependent on our ability to convince speech language pathologists and special education teachers of the benefits to their clients and students of our speech generating technologies and special education software. If speech language pathologists or special education teachers were to instead favor the products of our competitors, damaging our reputation, we could lose market share, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our products are dependent on the continued success of our proprietary symbol sets. Our proprietary symbol sets are important components of both our speech generating technologies and our special education software. Using symbols rather than text makes communication more efficient and more broadly accessible to people with a wide range of cognitive abilities. While we believe that our proprietary symbol sets include the most widely used set of graphic symbols utilized in speech generating technology and special education software, if speech language pathologists or our clients begin to prefer an alternate symbol set (because, for example, they determine that an alternate symbol set is easier to learn or more efficient than our proprietary symbol sets) or if a superior symbol set is developed by one of our competitors, we could lose market share in both our speech generating technologies and special education software, which could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We depend upon certain third-party suppliers and licensing arrangements, making us vulnerable to supply problems and price fluctuations, which could harm our business. We currently rely on third-party suppliers for the components of our speech generating devices. In some cases, there are relatively few alternate sources of supply for certain other components that are necessary for the hardware components of our speech generating devices. Our reliance on these outside suppliers also subjects us to risks that could harm our business, including: • we may not be able to obtain adequate supply in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms; • we may have difficulty locating and qualifying alternate suppliers; • our suppliers manufacture products for a range of customers, and fluctuations in demand for the products those suppliers manufacture for others may affect their ability to deliver components to us in a timely manner; • our suppliers may encounter financial hardships unrelated to our demand for components, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements; • any interruption or delay in the supply of components or materials, or our inability to obtain components or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and cause them to cancel orders or switch to competitive products; and • defective parts and products from these suppliers could reduce product reliability and harm our reputation. Some of the software and other intellectual property that is incorporated into our products is owned by third parties and licensed by us. We may not be able to negotiate or renegotiate these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and the third-party intellectual property may not be appropriately supported or maintained by the licensors. If we are unable to obtain the rights necessary to use or continue to use third-party intellectual property in our products and services it could result in increased costs, or an inability to develop new products. If our patents and other intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our products, we may lose market share to our competitors and be unable to operate our business profitably. Patents, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights are important to our business, and our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends on the proprietary nature of our technologies. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovations to develop, maintain and strengthen our competitive position. However, any pending patent applications may not result in issued patents, any current or future patents issued or licensed to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and the rights granted thereunder may not provide a competitive advantage to us or prevent other companies from independently developing technology that is similar to ours or introducing competitive products. In addition, our pending trademark registration applications may not be approved by the applicable governmental authorities and, even if the applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge these registrations. Failure to obtain trademark registrations in the United States and in other countries could limit our ability to protect our trademarks and impede our marketing efforts in those jurisdictions. Although our proprietary symbol sets are protected by certain trademarks and copyrights, a third party could seek to utilize our symbol sets without our authorization. Furthermore, we may have to take legal action in the future to protect our intellectual property, or to defend ourselves against claimed infringement of the rights of others. Any legal action of that type could be costly and time-consuming to us and could divert the attention of management, and such actions may not be successful. The invalidation or circumvention of key copyrights, patents, trademarks or other proprietary rights which we own or unsuccessful outcomes in lawsuits to protect our intellectual property may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If we cannot adequately protect our intellectual property rights in foreign countries, our competitors may be able to compete more directly with us, which could adversely affect our competitive position and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products could infringe on the intellectual property of others, which may cause us to engage in costly litigation and could cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on their intellectual property rights. If such claims are successful, we may have to pay substantial damages for past infringement. We might also be prohibited from selling our products or providing certain content or devices without first obtaining a license from the third party, which, if available at all, may require us to pay royalties. Moreover, we may need to redesign some of our products to avoid future infringement liability. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, may be expensive and may divert management attention from other business concerns. 13 Table of Contents The market opportunities for our products and content may not be as large as we believe. Our business strategy is to grow our sales to satisfy unmet demand for our speech generating devices among non-verbal individuals and for our special education authoring tools and content among special education teachers. Our expectations for future growth are dependent on our estimates of the number of people who can benefit from our speech generating technologies and special education software and the future growth in conditions that lead to speech and cognitive impairment, such as strokes and autism. However, these market opportunities for our products may not be as large as we believe and may not develop as expected. For example, although the sales of our speech generating devices could grow faster than we expect if our strategy to expand the scale, reach and sophistication of our direct sales infrastructure and build awareness of our products among potential end users and speech language pathologists is more effective than we have modeled, these sales could also be adversely impacted to the extent that these strategies are less effective than we expect, if the population of potential users does not develop as we anticipate or if some portion of the pool of potential end users that we seek to serve decides to use speech generation software applications on devices not specifically designed for this purpose, such as hand-held tablet computers. We may fail to successfully execute our strategy to grow our business. We intend to pursue a number of different strategies to grow our revenue and earnings. However, we may not be able to successfully execute these strategies. We are subject to a variety of risks due to our international operations that could adversely affect those operations or our profitability and operating results. Our operations in countries outside the United States, which accounted for 11.5% of our net sales for the year ended June 28, 2013, are accompanied by certain financial and other risks. We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales outside the United States, which could expose us to greater risks associated with international sales and operations. Our profitability and international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: • changes in foreign medical reimbursement programs and policies, • local product preferences and product requirements, • longer-term receivables than are typical in the United States, • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, • less protection of intellectual property in some countries outside the United States, • trade protection measures and import and export licensing requirements, • work force instability, • dependence on third party distributors, • international terrorism and anti-American sentiment, • political and economic instability, and • the potential payment of U.S. income taxes on certain earnings of our foreign subsidiaries’ upon repatriation. Our sales in international markets are also heavily dependent on public funding. We experienced a softening of demand for our products in international markets, including Germany and the United Kingdom, in fiscal year 2011 and fiscal year 2012 that we believe was as a result of constraints in government spending. Continued or increases in constraints in public funding for our products in our key international markets could adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents In addition, our business practices in foreign countries are subject to compliance with U.S. law, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”). We have a compliance program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of potential violations of the FCPA and other U.S. laws. If violations were to occur, they could subject us to fines and other penalties as well as increased compliance costs. In addition, a significant amount of trade receivables are with national healthcare systems in many countries. Repayment is accordingly dependent to a degree upon the financial stability of the economies of those countries. We depend on third-party distributors to market and sell our products internationally in a number of markets. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by both our distributors’ performance and our ability to maintain these relationships on terms that are favorable to us. We depend, in part, on international third-party distributors to sell our products in many jurisdictions outside the United States. In the fiscal year ended June 28, 2013, our net sales through international third-party distributors were 11% of our total net sales. Our international distributors operate independently of us, and we have limited control over their operations, which exposes us to certain risks. Distributors may not commit the necessary resources to market and sell our products and may also market and sell competitive products. In addition, our distributors may not comply with the laws and regulatory requirements in their local jurisdictions, which may limit their ability to market or sell our products. If current or future distributors do not perform adequately, or if we are unable to locate competent distributors in particular countries and secure their services on favorable terms, or at all, we may be unable to increase or maintain our level of net sales in these markets or enter new markets. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions could prevent us from marketing our products abroad. We have commercial and marketing efforts in a number of international jurisdictions and may seek to market our products in new countries in the future. Outside the United States, we can generally market a product only if we receive a marketing authorization and, in some cases, pricing approval, from the appropriate regulatory authorities. The approval procedure varies among countries. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries. Our business could be adversely affected by competition including potential new entrants. Although we have few competitors in our specific areas of speech generating technology and special education software, many other companies compete within the broader assistive technology market and could choose to enter the areas in which we have chosen to focus. We also face the risk of new entrants who do not currently compete in any segment of the assistive technology market, whether through acquisition of a current competitor or a new startup from a company that engages in a complementary business to ours, such as producers of educational software or consumer electronics. These competitors and potential competitors may have substantially greater capital resources, larger customer bases, broader product lines, larger sales forces, greater marketing and management resources, larger research and development staffs, larger facilities than ours, as well as global distribution channels that may be more effective than ours. These competitors may develop new technologies or more effective products that would compete directly with our products. These new technologies may make it more difficult to market our products and could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Competing with these companies will require continued investment by us in research and development, marketing, customer service and support. Even with such continued investments, we may not be able to successfully compete with new entrants in the areas in which we compete. 15 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with the U.S. Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state and foreign laws, we could be subject to criminal and civil penalties and exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental programs. A provision of the U.S. Social Security Act, commonly referred to as the U.S. Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for referring, ordering, leasing, purchasing or arranging for or recommending the ordering, purchasing or leasing of items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid or any other federal healthcare program. The Federal Anti-Kickback Statute is very broad in scope and many of its provisions have not been uniformly or definitively interpreted by existing case law or regulations. In addition, most of the states in which our products are sold in the United States have adopted laws similar to the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, and some of these laws are even broader than the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute in that their prohibitions are not limited to items or services paid for by a federal healthcare program but, instead, apply regardless of the source of payment. Violations of the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute or such similar state laws may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties and exclusion from participation in federal or state healthcare programs. We derive a significant portion of our net sales from international operations, and many foreign governments have equivalent statutes with similar penalties. All of our financial relationships with healthcare providers and others who provide products or services to federal healthcare program beneficiaries are potentially governed by the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state or foreign laws. We believe our operations are in material compliance with the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state or foreign laws. However, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to investigations or litigation alleging violations of these laws, which could be time-consuming and costly to us, could divert management’s attention from operating our business and could prevent healthcare providers from purchasing our products, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if our arrangements were found to violate the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute or similar state or foreign laws, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we fail to comply with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), we could be subject to enforcement actions. Federal and state laws protect the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including patient medical records, and restrict the use and disclosure of patient health information by healthcare providers. In particular, in April 2003, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services published patient privacy rules under HIPAA and, in April 2005, published security rules for protected health information. The HIPAA privacy and security rules govern the use, disclosure and security of protected health information by “Covered Entities,” which are healthcare providers that submit electronic claims, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses. Through our sales of speech generating technologies, we are a Covered Entity. We are committed to maintaining the security and privacy of patients’ health information and believe that we meet the expectations of the HIPAA rules. While we believe we are and will be in compliance with all HIPAA standards, there is no guarantee that we will not be subject to enforcement actions, which can be costly and interrupt regular operations of our business. On January 17, 2013, the Office for Civil Rights of the Department of Health and Human Services released a major final rule modifying the HIPAA Privacy, Security, Breach and Enforcement Rules, including revisions made by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act. While we are still reviewing the extensive provisions of the rule, it generally appears to expand privacy and security requirements for business associates of entities that receive protected health information, increase penalties for noncompliance, and strengthen requirements for reporting of breaches, among other changes. The rule is effective March 23, 2013, and covered entities and business associates must comply with the applicable requirements of this final rule by September 23, 2013. We cannot determine at this time the cost of compliance with the new requirements Governmental compliance is critical to the operation of our business. As legislators and regulatory bodies increase scrutiny of our industry, there may be adverse statements or charges against us by regulators or elected officials. Regardless of the factual basis, such allegations can result in investigation by regulators, legislators, and law enforcement officials, or in lawsuits. Responding to such allegations can be costly and time consuming. Adverse publicity can have a negative impact on our reputation, which could adversely affect our business and the results of operations. Cyber attacks as well as improper disclosure or control of personal information could result in liability and harm our reputation, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business is dependent upon our computer technologies, systems and platforms. Internal or external attacks on any of those could disrupt the normal operations of our business and impede our ability to provide services to our clients, thereby subjecting us to liability. Additionally, our business involves the use and storage of information about our employees and our customers. While we take measures to protect the security and the privacy of personal and proprietary information, it is possible that our security controls over our systems, as well as other security practices we follow, may not prevent the improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable or proprietary information. Such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we provide services. Our failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation in the marketplace, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure DynaVox Inc.’s only material asset is its interest in DynaVox Systems Holdings LLC, and it is accordingly dependent upon distributions from DynaVox Systems Holdings LLC to pay taxes, make payments under the tax receivable agreement or pay dividends. DynaVox Inc. is a holding company and has no material assets other than its ownership of partnership units of DynaVox Systems Holdings LLC, or Holdings Units. DynaVox Inc. has no independent means of generating revenue. DynaVox Inc. intends to cause DynaVox Systems Holdings LLC to make distributions to its unitholders in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes at assumed tax rates, payments under the tax receivable agreement and dividends, if any, declared by it. To the extent that DynaVox Inc. needs funds, and DynaVox Systems Holdings LLC is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of our financing arrangements, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. DynaVox Systems LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of DynaVox Systems Holdings LLC, has entered into a senior secured credit facility. This agreement includes a restricted payment covenant, which restricts the ability of DynaVox Systems LLC to make distributions to its parent, DynaVox Systems Holdings LLC, which, in turn, limits the ability of DynaVox Systems Holdings LLC to make distributions to DynaVox Inc. In addition, each of DynaVox Systems LLC and DynaVox Systems Holdings LLC are generally prohibited under Delaware law from making a distribution to a member to the extent that, at the time of the distribution, after giving effect to the distribution, liabilities of the limited liability company (with certain exceptions) exceed the fair value of its assets. DynaVox Inc. is controlled by the limited partners of DynaVox Systems Holdings LLC, whose interests may differ from those of our public shareholders. As of June 28, 2013, the limited partners of DynaVox Systems Holdings LLC controlled approximately 62.0% of the combined voting power of our Class A and Class B common stock. Accordingly, the limited partners of DynaVox Systems Holdings LLC have the ability to elect all of the members of our board of directors, and thereby to control our management and affairs. In addition, they are able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring shareholder approval, including mergers and other material transactions, and are able to cause or prevent a change in the composition of our board of directors or a change in control of our company that could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their Class A common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, as of June 28, 2013, the limited partners of DynaVox Systems Holdings LLC owned 62.0% of the Holdings Units. Because they hold their ownership interest in our business through DynaVox Systems Holdings LLC, rather than through the public company, these owners may have conflicting interests with holders of shares of our Class A common stock. For example, these owners may have different tax positions from us which could influence their decisions regarding whether and when to dispose of assets, whether and when to incur new or refinance existing indebtedness, especially in light of the existence of the tax receivable agreement that we entered in connection with our IPO, and whether and when DynaVox Inc. should terminate the tax receivable agreement and accelerate its obligations thereunder. In addition, the structuring of future transactions may take into consideration these owners’ tax or other considerations even where no similar benefit would accrue to us. See “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” Prior to our IPO, DynaVox Inc. and DynaVox Systems Holdings LLC entered into an amended and restated security holders agreement with funds affiliated with Vestar Capital Partners (or, together with its affiliates, Vestar), Park Avenue Equity Partners L.P. (or, together with its affiliates, Park Avenue) and certain specified other holders of Holdings Units from time to time, including our executive officers. The amended and restated security holders agreement includes, until such time as the security holders cease to own at least 25% of the total voting power of DynaVox Inc., a voting agreement pursuant to which the security holders have agreed to vote their shares and to take any other action necessary to elect the following directors of DynaVox Inc.: (1) one director who shall be the Chief Executive Officer and (2) for so long as Vestar holds 10% of the total voting power of DynaVox Inc., all of the remaining directors shall be designated by Vestar. In addition, the amended and restated security holders agreement provides Vestar with certain “take along” rights, requiring the other investors party to that agreement to consent to a proposed sale of DynaVox Systems Holdings LLC. These provisions give Vestar substantial control over the Company, and Vestar’s interests may differ with your interests as a holder of the Class A common stock. See “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” As of June 28, 2013, parties to the amended and restated security holders agreement controlled approximately 57.5% of the combined voting power of our Class A and Class B common stock and held 92.6% of the Holdings Units. 17 Table of Contents Our certificate of incorporation contains a provision renouncing our interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities identified by Vestar. Vestar and its affiliates are in the business of providing buyout capital and growth capital to developing companies, and may acquire interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business. Our certificate of incorporation provides for the allocation of certain corporate opportunities between us, on the one hand, and Vestar, on the other hand. As set forth in our certificate of incorporation, neither Vestar, nor any director, officer, stockholder, member, manager or employee of Vestar has any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. Therefore, a director or officer of our company who also serves as a director, officer, member, manager or employee of Vestar may pursue certain acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, such acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. These potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects if attractive corporate opportunities are allocated by Vestar to themselves or their other affiliates instead of to us. We are required to pay the counterparties to the tax receivable agreement for certain tax benefits we may claim arising in connection with our IPO, future purchases or exchanges of Holdings Units and related transactions, and the amounts we may pay could be significant. In connection with our IPO, we purchased Holdings Units from our pre-IPO owners, including members of our senior management. We also entered into a tax receivable agreement with our pre-IPO owners that provides for the payment by DynaVox Inc. to these parties of 85% of the benefits, if any, that DynaVox Inc. is deemed to realize as a result of (i) the existing tax basis in the intangible assets of DynaVox Systems Holdings LLC on the date of our IPO, (ii) the increases in tax basis resulting from our purchases or exchanges of Holdings Units and (iii) certain other tax benefits related to our entering into the tax receivable agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the tax receivable agreement. See “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” We expect that the payments that we may make under the tax receivable agreement will be substantial. There may be a material negative effect on our liquidity if, as a result of timing discrepancies or otherwise, the payments under the tax receivable agreement exceed the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreement and/or distributions to DynaVox Inc. by DynaVox Systems Holdings LLC are not sufficient to permit DynaVox Inc. to make payments under the tax receivable agreement after it has paid taxes. The payments under the tax receivable agreement are not conditioned upon the continued ownership of us by the counterparties to the tax receivable agreement. As of June 28, 2013 the estimated liability representing the expected payments due under the tax receivable agreement was zero. During the fiscal year ending June 27, 2014, the Company does not expect to make a payment under the tax receivable agreement. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2013, the Company changed its estimate and reduced $43.9 million of the estimated liability in connection with placing a substantial valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets as it was determined that it was more likely than not that the tax benefits would not be realized. Future changes in our assessment of our ability to realize deferred tax assets would have an effect on our estimate of the tax receivable agreement liability. If we were to determine that a reduction to our valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets was necessary because it was more likely than not that we would realize the tax benefits, we would record a corresponding increase to our tax receivable liability. Effective October 18, 2013, the tax receivable agreement was amended so that the agreement will terminate with no further obligations owed by DynaVox Inc. to its pre-IPO owners upon a change in control other than a liquidation or dissolution of the Company. In certain cases, payments under the tax receivable agreement may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreement. The tax receivable agreement originally provided that upon certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control, the corporate taxpayer’s (or its successor’s) obligations with respect to exchanged or acquired Holdings Units (whether exchanged or acquired before or after such transaction) would be based on certain assumptions, including that the corporate taxpayer would have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the deductions arising from the increased tax deductions and tax basis and other benefits related to entering into the tax receivable agreement. Upon a subsequent actual exchange, any additional increase in tax deductions, tax basis and other benefits in excess of the amounts assumed at the change in control would have also resulted in payments under the tax receivable agreement. As a result, under the original tax receivable agreement, we could have been required to make payments under the tax receivable agreement that were greater than the specified percentage of the actual benefits we realized. Effective October 18, 2013, the tax receivable agreement was amended so that the agreement will terminate with no further obligations owed by DynaVox Inc. to its pre- IPO owners upon a change in control other than a liquidation or dissolution of the Company. If we elect to terminate the tax receivable agreement early for reasons other than for a change in control that is not a liquidation or dissolution of the Company, we would still be required to make an immediate payment equal to the present value (calculated utilizing a discount rate equal to LIBOR plus 100 basis points) of the anticipated future tax benefits. In addition to the assumption that the corporate taxpayer would have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the deductions arising from the increased tax deductions and tax basis and other benefits, this upfront payment would be calculated based upon additional assumptions, including that any Holdings Units that had not then been exchanged would be deemed to be exchanged for the market value of the Class A common stock at the time of the termination and that the tax rates for future years would be those specified in the law as in effect at the time of termination. In any of these situations, our obligations under the tax receivable agreement could be significant and significantly in excess of any tax benefits that we realize. 18 Table of Contents Payments under the tax receivable agreement will be based on the tax reporting positions that we determine. Although we are not aware of any issue that would cause the IRS to challenge a tax basis increase, the corporate taxpayer will not be reimbursed for any payments previously made under the tax receivable agreement. As a result, in certain circumstances, payments could be made under the tax receivable agreement in excess of the benefits that the corporate taxpayer actually realizes in respect of (i) the existing tax basis in the intangible assets of DynaVox Systems Holdings LLC on the date of our IPO, (ii) the increases in tax basis resulting from our purchases or exchanges of Holdings Units and (iii) certain other tax benefits related to our entering into the tax receivable agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the tax receivable agreement. Out internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of June 28, 2013 and there could be additional material weaknesses in our internal controls in the future. Furthermore, this Annual Report on Form 10-K does not include an independent registered public accounting firm’s audit of our internal control over financial reporting, which could uncover other material weaknesses. Based on the evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting related to the year ended June 28, 2013, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of such date, our internal control over financial reporting was not effective at the reasonable assurance level. Our independent registered public accounting firm identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting surrounding the performance of analysis to support and review non-routine and complex accounting matters. Specifically, deficiencies were identified in our control environment which could have led to the improper valuation of certain assets. As a result of the Default Notice, the Forbearance Agreement and specifically the expedited process to evaluate strategic alternatives required under the Forbearance Agreement, the Company lacked sufficient skilled personnel to conduct such analysis. There could be additional material weaknesses in our internal controls in the future. Under rules established under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, specifically subsection (c)—Exemption for Smaller Issuers, under Section 989G—Exemption for Non-accelerated Filers, the Company is not required to obtain, and therefore did not obtain, an opinion on our internal control over financial reporting from our independent registered public accounting firm. Because we have not engaged an independent registered public accounting firm to conduct an audit of our internal control over financial reporting, we cannot conclude that such an audit would not uncover other material weaknesses, in addition to the item noted above, in our internal controls or a combination of significant deficiencies that could result in the conclusion that we have a material weakness in our internal controls. If in the future we conduct an audit of our internal control over financial reporting, such audit findings may conclude that we have additional material weaknesses in our internal controls or a combination of significant deficiencies that could result in the conclusion that we have material weakness in our internal controls. Matters impacting our internal controls may cause us to be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis and thereby result in a breach of the covenants under our debt agreements. Confidence in the reliability of our financial statements also could suffer if we were to report a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. This could materially adversely affect us and lead to a decline in the price of our Class A common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. Among other things, these provisions: • authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of Class A common stock; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter, or repeal our bylaws and that our stockholders may only amend our bylaws with the approval of 80% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. 19 Table of Contents These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, including actions that our stockholders may deem advantageous, or negatively affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. Risks Related to our Class A Common Stock As our Class A common stock is no longer listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, our shares are thinly traded, our ability to raise future capital is impaired and we are no longer required to comply with the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. In addition, we deregistered our Class A common stock, which has suspended our SEC reporting requirements. On April 15, 2013, the Company’s Class A common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select Market and began trading on the OTC Markets OTCQB marketplace on April 16, 2013. In addition, in light of not being quoted on a national exchange and given the increasing cost and resource demands of being a public company, our Board has decided to deregister our Class A common stock under the Exchange Act and “go dark.” We filed a Form 15 with the SEC on July 1, 2013, and our obligation to file reports (including periodic reports and proxy statements) with the SEC has ceased since then although we are still required to file this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year 2013. The Company expects that this Annual Report will be the final report the Company files with the SEC. The Company’s Class A common stock currently trades on the OTC Markets OTC Pink Limited Information marketplace. The delisting of our Class A common stock has resulted, and could continue to result, in a number of negative implications, including reduced price and liquidity in our common stock as a result of the loss of market efficiencies associated with NASDAQ and the loss of federal preemption of state securities laws, as well as the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest, the loss of the ability to raise future capital, lack of coverage by analysts, fewer business development opportunities and greater difficulty in obtaining financing. In addition, we are no longer required to comply with the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. As a result of the deregistration, investors have significantly less information about the Company and may find it more difficult to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of the Company’s Class A common stock. In addition, there has been a substantial decrease in the liquidity in the Class A common stock and the ability of shareholders to sell the Company’s securities in the secondary market is materially limited. Further, the market’s interpretation of the Company’s motivation for “going dark” varies from cost savings, to negative changes in the Company’s prospects, to serving insider interests, all of which affect, and may continue to affect, the overall price and liquidity of the Company’s Class A common stock and its ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to the Company or at all. There is no assurance that we will continue to trade on the OTC Markets OTC Pink Limited Information marketplace as we are dependent on one or more market makers making a market in our common stock, and even if they continue to do so, there can be no assurance that an active trading market will be maintained. Broker-dealers may decline to trade in the Pink Sheets because (1) the market for such securities is often limited, (2) such securities are generally more volatile, and (3) the risk to investors is generally greater. Selling our Class A common stock could be difficult because smaller quantities of shares can be bought and sold, transactions can be delayed and securities analyst and media coverage of us may be reduced. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for shares of our Class A common stock as well as lower trading volume. We cannot provide any assurance that, even if our Class A common stock continues to be listed or quoted on the Pink Sheets or another market or system, the market for our Class A common stock will be liquid. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Payments of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our business, operating results and financial condition, current and anticipated cash needs, plans for expansion and any legal or contractual limitations on our ability to pay dividends. As a result, capital appreciation in the price of our Class A common stock, if any, may be your only source of gain on an investment in our Class A common stock. 20 Table of Contents Even if we decide in the future to pay any dividends, DynaVox Inc. is a holding company with no independent operations of its own. As a result, DynaVox Inc. depends on DynaVox Systems Holdings LLC and its subsidiaries and affiliates for cash to pay its obligations and make dividend payments. Deterioration in the financial conditions, earnings or cash flow of DynaVox Systems Holdings LLC and its subsidiaries for any reason could limit or impair their ability to pay cash distributions or other distributions to us. In addition, our ability to pay dividends in the future is dependent upon our receipt of cash from DynaVox Systems Holdings LLC and its subsidiaries. DynaVox Systems Holdings LLC and its subsidiaries may be restricted from sending cash to us by, among other things, law or provisions of the documents governing our existing or future indebtedness. Securities or industry analysts ceased publishing research or reports about our business, which has contributed to a decline in our stock price and trading volume. The trading market for our Class A common stock was influenced, among other things, by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts published about us or our business. The analysts ceased coverage of us and, as a result, we lost visibility in the financial markets, which in turn caused our Class A common stock price and trading volume to decline and our Class A common stock to be less liquid. Shares of our Class A common stock price may decline due to the large number of shares of Class A common stock eligible for future sale and for exchange. The market price of shares of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of Class A common stock in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell shares of Class A common stock in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. The market price of shares of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. The market price of our Class A common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations as a result of factors other than the delisting and the deregistration of our Class A common stock (described above). Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions could reduce the market price of shares of our Class A common stock in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors due to a number of potential factors, including variations in our operating results or dividends, if any, to stockholders, additions or departures of key management personnel, publication of research reports about our industry, litigation and government investigations, changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations or enforcement thereof affecting our business, adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future, changes in market valuations of similar companies or speculation in the press or investment community, announcements by our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, adverse publicity about the industries we participate in or individual scandals, the delisting of our shares of Class A common stock from the NASDAQ Global Select Market, and in response the market price of shares of our Class A common stock could decrease significantly. You may be unable to resell your shares of Class A common stock at or above the price you originally paid. In the past years, stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. You may be diluted by the future issuance of additional Class A common stock in connection with our incentive plans, acquisitions or otherwise. As of June 28, 2013, we have an aggregate of more than 988 million shares of Class A common stock authorized but unissued, including approximately 18.7 million shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exchange of outstanding Holdings Units. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue these shares of Class A common stock and options, rights, warrants and appreciation rights relating to Class A common stock for the consideration and on the terms and conditions established by our board of directors in its sole discretion, whether in connection with acquisitions or otherwise. We have reserved 3,550,000 shares for issuance under our 2010 Long-Term Incentive Plan, including 977,075 shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options that we have granted to our officers and employees. See “Item 11. Executive Compensation.” Any Class A common stock that we issue, including under our 2010 Long-Term Incentive Plan or other equity incentive plans that we may adopt in the future, would dilute the percentage ownership held by the then existing holders of our Class A common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 21 Table of Contents 