ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Banking Operations We have recently completed seven acquisitions and have a limited operating history from which investors can evaluate our profitability and prospects. We were organized in November 2009 and acquired certain of the assets and assumed certain liabilities of the three Failed Banks in July 2010. We also completed controlling investments in TIB Financial in September 2010, Capital Bank Corp. in January 2011, Green Bankshares in September 2011 and Southern Community Financial in October 2012. Because our banking operations began in 2010, we do not have a meaningful operating history upon which investors can evaluate our operational performance or compare our recent performance to historical performance. Although we acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities or made investments in seven depository institutions which had operated for longer periods of time than we have, their business models and experiences are not reflective of our plans. Accordingly, our limited time running these companies’ operations may make it difficult to predict our future prospects and financial performance based on the prior performance of such depository institutions. Moreover, because a portion of the loans and other real estate we acquired in the acquisitions are covered by the loss sharing agreements and were marked to fair value in connection with our acquisition of the Failed Banks’ businesses, the historical financial results of the acquired banks are less important to an understanding of our future operations. Certain other factors may also make it difficult to predict our future financial and operating performance, including, among others: • our current asset mix, loan quality and allowances are not representative of our anticipated future asset mix, loan quality and allowances, which may change materially as we undertake organic loan origination and banking activities and grow through future acquisitions; • a portion of the loans and other real estate of the Failed Banks that we acquired are covered by the loss sharing agreements with the FDIC, which reimburse 80% of losses experienced on these assets and, thus, we may face higher losses once the FDIC loss sharing expires; • the income we report from certain acquired assets due to discount accretion and the amortization of the FDIC indemnification asset does not reflect the same amount of cash inflows to us and, if we are unable to replace these acquired assets with new performing loans and other performing assets, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flows; • our significant cash reserves and liquid securities portfolio, which result in large part from the proceeds of our 2009 and 2010 private placement financings and cash payments from the FDIC in connection with our acquisition of the Failed Banks subject to loss sharing agreements, are not necessarily representative of our future cash position; • our cost structure and capital expenditure requirements for historical periods are not reflective of our anticipated cost structure and capital spending as we integrate future acquisitions and continue to grow our organic banking platform; and • our regulatory capital ratios, which are required by agreements we have reached with our regulators and which result in part from the proceeds of our 2009 and 2010 private placement financings and cash payments from the FDIC in connection with our acquisition of the Failed Banks subject to loss sharing agreements, are not necessarily representative of our future regulatory capital ratios. Our acquisition history may not be indicative of our ability to execute our growth strategy. Our prior acquisitions should be viewed in the context of the recent opportunities available to us as a result of the confluence of our access to capital at a time when market dislocations of historical proportions resulted in attractive asset acquisition opportunities. As conditions change, we may prove to be unable to execute our growth strategy, which could impact our future earnings, reputation and results of operations. We have recently completed the process of integrating seven of the acquired banking platforms into a single unified operating platform (the Failed Banks, TIB Financial, Capital Bank Corp., Green Bankshares and Southern Community Financial). Continued or worsening general business and economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our business and operations are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States. If the U.S. economy is unable to steadily emerge from the recent recession that began in 2007 or we experience worsening economic conditions, such as a so-called “double-dip” recession, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. Weak economic conditions may be characterized by deflation, fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, including a lack of liquidity and/or depressed prices in the secondary market for mortgage loans, increased delinquencies on mortgage, consumer and commercial loans, residential and commercial real estate price declines and lower home sales and commercial activity. All of these factors would be detrimental to our business. On August 5, 2011, Standard & Poor’s lowered the long-term sovereign credit rating of U.S. Government debt obligations from AAA to AA+. On August 8, 2011, S&P also downgraded the long-term credit ratings of U.S. government-sponsored enterprises. These actions initially have had an adverse effect on financial markets and although we are unable to predict the longer-term impact on such markets and the participants therein, it may be material and adverse. 26 Table of Contents Our business is also significantly affected by fiscal, monetary and related policies of the U.S. federal government, its agencies and government-sponsored entities. Changes in any of these policies including U.S. government spending cuts, are beyond our control, difficult to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The geographic concentration of our markets in the southeastern region of the United States makes our business highly susceptible to downturns in the local economies and depressed banking markets, which could be detrimental to our financial condition. Unlike larger financial institutions that are more geographically diversified, we are a regional banking franchise concentrated in the southeastern region of the United States. We operate branches located in Florida, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee and Virginia. As of December 31, 2012, 29% of our loans were in Florida, 23% were in Tennessee, 37% were in North Carolina and 11% were in South Carolina. A deterioration in local economic conditions in the loan market or in the residential, commercial or industrial real estate market could have a material adverse effect on the quality of our portfolio, the demand for our products and services, the ability of borrowers to timely repay loans and the value of the collateral securing loans. In addition, if the population or income growth in the region is slower than projected, income levels, deposits and real estate development could be adversely affected and could result in the curtailment of our expansion, growth and profitability. If any of these developments were to result in losses that materially and adversely affected Capital Bank’s capital, we and Capital Bank might be subject to regulatory restrictions on operations and growth and to a requirement to raise additional capital. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services. We believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part on the skills of our management team and our ability to motivate and retain these individuals and other key personnel. In particular, we rely on the leadership and experience in the banking industry of our Chief Executive Officer R. Eugene Taylor. Mr. Taylor is the former Vice Chairman of Bank of America and has extensive experience executing and overseeing bank acquisitions, including NationsBank Corp.’s acquisition and integration of Bank of America, Maryland National Bank and Barnett Banks. The loss of service of Mr. Taylor or one or more of our other executive officers or key personnel could reduce our ability to successfully implement our long-term business strategy, our business could suffer and the value of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. Leadership changes will occur from time to time and we cannot predict whether significant resignations will occur or whether we will be able to recruit additional qualified personnel. We believe our management team possesses valuable knowledge about the banking industry and that their knowledge and relationships would be very difficult to replicate. Although Messrs. Taylor, Marshall, Singletary and Posner have each entered into an employment agreement with us, it is possible that they may not complete the term of their employment agreements or renew them upon expiration. Our success also depends on the experience of our branch managers and lending officers and on their relationships with the customers and communities they serve. The loss of these key personnel could negatively impact our banking operations. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. Our loss sharing agreements impose restrictions on the operation of our business; failure to comply with the terms of our loss sharing agreements with the FDIC or other regulatory agreements or orders may result in significant losses or regulatory sanctions, and we are exposed to unrecoverable losses on the Failed Banks’ assets that we acquired. In July 2010, we purchased substantially all of the assets and assumed all of the deposits and certain other liabilities of the Failed Banks in FDIC-assisted transactions, and a material portion of our revenue is derived from such assets. Certain of the purchased assets are covered by the loss sharing agreements with the FDIC, which provide that the FDIC will bear 80% of losses on the covered loan assets we acquired in our acquisition of the Failed Banks. We are subject to audit by the FDIC at its discretion to ensure we are in compliance with the terms of these agreements. We may experience difficulties in complying with the requirements of the loss sharing agreements, the terms of which are extensive and failure to comply with any of the terms could result in a specific asset or group of assets losing their loss sharing coverage. The FDIC has the right to refuse or delay payment partially or in full for such loan losses if we fail to comply with the terms of the loss sharing agreements, which are extensive. Additionally, the loss sharing agreements are limited in duration. Therefore, any losses that we experience after the terms of the loss sharing agreements have ended will not be recoverable from the FDIC and would negatively impact our net income. 27 Table of Contents Our loss sharing agreements also impose limitations on how we manage loans covered by loss sharing. For example, under the loss sharing agreements, we are not permitted to sell a covered loan even if in the ordinary course of our business we determine that taking such action would be advantageous for us. These restrictions could impair our ability to manage problem loans and extend the amount of time that such loans remain on our balance sheet and could negatively impact our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. In addition to the loss sharing agreements, in August 2010, Capital Bank entered into an Operating Agreement with the OCC (which we refer to as the “OCC Operating Agreement”), in connection with our acquisition of the Failed Banks. Capital Bank (and, with respect to certain provisions, the Company) is also subject to an Order of the FDIC, dated July 16, 2010 and amended on December 21, 2011 (which we refer to as the “FDIC Order”) issued in connection with the FDIC’s approval of our deposit insurance applications for the Failed Banks. The OCC Operating Agreement and the FDIC Order require that Capital Bank maintain various financial and capital ratios and require prior regulatory notice and consent to take certain actions in connection with operating the business and may restrict Capital Bank’s ability to pay dividends to us and to make changes to its capital structure. A failure by us or Capital Bank to comply with the requirements of the OCC Operating Agreement or the FDIC Order could subject us to regulatory sanctions; and failure to comply, or the objection, or imposition of additional conditions, by the OCC or the FDIC, in connection with any materials or information submitted thereunder, could prevent us from executing our business strategy and negatively impact our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Any requested or required changes in how we determine the impact of loss share accounting on our financial information could have a material adverse effect on our reported results. A material portion of our financial results is based on loss share accounting, which is subject to assumptions and judgments made by us and the regulatory agencies to which we report such information. Loss share accounting is a complex accounting methodology. If these assumptions are incorrect or the regulatory agencies to whom we report require that we change or modify our assumptions, such change or modification could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operations or our previously reported results. As such, any financial information generated through the use of loss share accounting is subject to modification or change. Any significant modification or change in such information could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our previously reported results. Our financial information reflects the application of the acquisition method of accounting. Any change in the assumptions used in such methodology could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. As a result of our recent acquisitions, our financial results are heavily influenced by the application of the acquisition method of accounting. The acquisition method of accounting requires management to make assumptions regarding the assets purchased and liabilities assumed to determine their fair market value. Our interest income, interest expense and net interest margin (which were equal to $292.6 million, $39.1 million and 4.40%, respectively, in 2012) reflect the impact of accretion of the fair value adjustments made to the carrying amounts of interest earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and our non-interest income (which totaled $62.8 million in 2012) for periods subsequent to the acquisitions includes the effects of discount accretion and amortization of the FDIC indemnification asset. In addition, the balances of non-performing assets were significantly reduced by the adjustments to fair value recorded in conjunction with the relevant acquisition. If our assumptions are incorrect or the regulatory agencies to whom we report require that we change or modify our assumptions, such change or modification could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations or our previously reported results. Our business is highly susceptible to credit risk. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that the collateral (if any) securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. The risks inherent in making any loan include risks with respect to the period of time over which the loan may be repaid, risks relating to proper loan underwriting and guidelines, risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions, risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers and risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral. The credit standards, procedures and policies that we have established for borrowers may not prevent the incurrence of substantial credit losses. Although we do not have a long enough operating history to have restructured many of our loans for borrowers in financial difficulty, in the future, we may restructure originated or acquired loans if we believe the borrowers have a viable business plan to fully pay off all obligations. However, for our originated loans, if interest rates or other terms are modified upon extension of credit or if terms of an existing loan are renewed in such a situation and a concession is granted, we may be required to classify such action as a troubled debt restructuring (which we refer to as a “TDR”). We would classify loans as TDRs when certain modifications are made to the loan terms and concessions are granted to the borrowers due to their financial difficulty. Generally, these loans would be restructured to provide the borrower additional time to execute its business plan. With respect to restructured loans, we may grant concessions by (1) reduction of the stated interest rate for the remaining original life of the 28 Table of Contents debt or (2) extension of the maturity date at a stated interest rate lower than the current market rate for new debt with similar risk. In situations where a TDR is unsuccessful and the borrower is unable to satisfy the terms of the restructured agreement, the loan would be placed on nonaccrual status and written down to the underlying collateral value. The ratio of our total non-performing loans not covered under loss sharing agreements with the FDIC to total loans has increased from 3.25% as of December 31, 2010 to 6.19% as of December 31, 2012 due primarily to our acquisitions of Capital Bank Corp., Green Bankshares and Southern Community Financial. In addition, the migration of loans to non-performing status based on our evaluation and re-grading of the portfolios of acquired loans following each acquisition, including the acquisitions of the Failed Banks and TIB Financial, has contributed to the increase in such ratio. At the same time, the overall ratio of non-performing loans to total loans declined from 11.12% as of December 31, 2010 to 7.82% as of December 31, 2012. This decline is due primarily to the increased proportion of loans originated by us under our credit policies and underwriting standards and the lower relative proportion of non-performing loans we acquired through the acquisitions of Capital Bank Corp., Green Bankshares and Southern Community Financial as compared to the Failed Banks. Non-performing loans include loans classified as non-accrual as well as loans which may be contractually past due 90 or more days but are still accruing interest either because they are well secured and in the process of collection or because they are accounted for according to accounting guidance for acquired impaired loans. One important component of our business strategy is sound risk management, including resolution of criticized and classified loans that totaled $833.9 million as of December 31, 2012. If management is unable to effectively resolve these loans, they would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. Recent economic and market developments and the potential for continued economic disruption present considerable risks to us and it is difficult to determine the depth and duration of the economic and financial market problems and the many ways in which they may impact our business in general. Any failure to manage such credit risks may materially adversely affect our business and our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could hurt our business. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 81% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. A continued weakening of the real estate market in our primary market areas could continue to result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our profitability and asset quality. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and shareholders’ equity could be adversely affected. Additionally, weakness in the secondary market for residential lending could have an adverse impact on our profitability. Significant ongoing disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have limited the market for and liquidity of most mortgage loans other than conforming Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans. The effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in further price reductions in single family home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans held, any future mortgage loan originations and gains on sale of mortgage loans. Continued declines in real estate values and home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses or other factors could have further adverse effects on borrowers that result in higher delinquencies and charge-offs in future periods, which could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Our construction and land development loans are based upon estimates of costs and the values of the complete projects. While we intend to focus on originating loans other than non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans, our portfolio includes construction and land development loans (which we refer to as “C&D loans”) extended to builders and developers, primarily for the construction and/or development of properties. These loans have been extended on a presold and speculative basis and they include loans for both residential and commercial purposes. In general, C&D lending involves additional risks because of the inherent difficulty in estimating a property’s value both before and at completion of the project. Construction costs may exceed original estimates as a result of increased materials, labor or other costs. In addition, because of current uncertainties in the residential and commercial real estate markets, property values have become more difficult to determine than they have been historically. The repayment of construction and land acquisition and development loans is often dependent, in part, on the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property. These 29 Table of Contents loans also require ongoing monitoring. In addition, speculative construction loans to a residential builder are often associated with homes that are not presold and, thus, pose a greater potential risk than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. Slowing housing sales have been a contributing factor to an increase in non-performing loans as well as an increase in delinquencies. As of December 31, 2012, C&D loans totaled $487.6 million (or 10% of our total loan portfolio), of which $82.1 million was for construction and/or development of residential properties and $405.5 million was for construction/development of commercial properties. As of December 31, 2012, non-performing C&D loans covered under FDIC loss share agreements totaled $25.1 million and non-performing C&D loans not covered under FDIC loss share agreements totaled $90.1 million. Our non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans may be dependent on factors outside the control of our borrowers. While we intend to focus on originating loans other than non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans, in the acquisitions we acquired non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans for individuals and businesses for various purposes, which are secured by commercial properties. These loans typically involve repayment dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. This may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. Non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be liquidated as easily as residential real estate. In such cases, we may be compelled to modify the terms of the loan or engage in other potentially expensive work-out techniques. If we foreclose on a non-owner occupied commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than a 1-4 family residential property because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Additionally, non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans generally have relatively large balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers. Accordingly, charge-offs on non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios. As of December 31, 2012, our non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans totaled $895.2 million (or 19% of our total loan portfolio). As of December 31, 2012, non-performing non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans covered under FDIC loss share agreements totaled $17.3 million and non-performing non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans not covered under FDIC loss share agreements totaled $44.1 million. Repayment of our commercial business loans is dependent on the cash flows of borrowers, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Our business plan focuses on originating different types of commercial business loans. We classify types of commercial loans offered as owner-occupied term real estate loans, business lines of credit and term equipment financing. Commercial business lending involves risks that are different from those associated with non-owner occupied commercial real estate lending. Our commercial business loans are primarily underwritten based on the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral, including real estate. The borrowers’ cash flow may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Some of our commercial business loans are collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable or other business assets, and the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible and inventories may be obsolete or of limited use. As of December 31, 2012, our commercial business loans totaled $1.7 billion (or 37% of our total loan portfolio). Of this amount, $1.1 billion was secured by owner-occupied real estate and $658.3 million was secured by business assets. As of December 31, 2012, non-performing commercial business loans covered under FDIC loss share agreements totaled $10.0 million and non-performing commercial business loans not covered under FDIC loss share agreements totaled $91.6 million. Our allowance for loan losses and fair value adjustments may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses for loans that we originate. Lending money is a substantial part of our business and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: • cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; • the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan; • the duration of the loan; 30 Table of Contents • the discount on the loan at the time of acquisition; • the credit history of a particular borrower; and • changes in economic and industry conditions. Non-performing loans covered under loss share agreements with the FDIC totaled $76.2 million, and non-performing loans not covered under loss share agreements with the FDIC totaled $290.4 million as of December 31, 2012. We maintain an allowance for loan losses with respect to loans we originate, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management team through periodic reviews. As of December 31, 2012, the allowance on loans covered by loss share agreements with the FDIC was $16.9 million, and the allowance on loans not covered by loss share agreements with the FDIC was $38.0 million. As of December 31, 2012, the ratio of our allowance for loan losses to nonperforming loans covered by loss share agreements with the FDIC was 22.1%, and the ratio of our allowance for loan losses to non-performing loans not covered by loss share agreements with the FDIC was 13.1%. The application of the acquisition method of accounting to our completed acquisitions impacted our allowance for loan losses. Under the acquisition method of accounting, all loans were recorded in our financial statements at their fair value at the time of their acquisition and the related allowance for loan loss was eliminated because the fair value at the time was determined by the net present value of the expected cash flows taking into consideration estimated credit quality. We may in the future determine that our estimates of fair value are too high, in which case we would provide for additional loan losses associated with the acquired loans. As of December 31, 2012, the allowance for loan losses on PCI loan pools totaled $39.8 million, of which $16.8 million was related to loan pools covered by loss share agreements with the FDIC and $23.0 million was related to loan pools not covered by loss share agreements with the FDIC. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans that we originate, identification of additional problem loans originated by us and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. If trends in the real estate markets continue, we expect that we will continue to experience increased delinquencies and credit losses, particularly with respect to construction, land development and land loans. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for probable loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We continue to hold and acquire other real estate, which has led to increased operating expenses and vulnerability to additional declines in real property values. We foreclose on and take title to the real estate serving as collateral for many of our loans as part of our business. Real estate owned by us and not used in the ordinary course of its operations is referred to as “other real estate owned” or “OREO” property. At December 31, 2012, we had $154.3 million of OREO. Increased OREO balances have led to greater expenses as we incur costs to manage and dispose of the properties. We expect that our earnings will continue to be negatively affected by various expenses associated with OREO, including personnel costs, insurance and taxes, completion and repair costs, valuation adjustments and other expenses associated with property ownership, as well as by the funding costs associated with assets that are tied up in OREO. Any further decrease in real estate market prices may lead to additional OREO write-downs, with a corresponding expense in our statement of operations. We evaluate OREO properties periodically and write down the carrying value of the properties if the results of our evaluation require it. The expenses associated with OREO and any further property write-downs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses to address unknown liabilities and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on nonresidential real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Delinquencies and defaults in residential mortgages have increased, creating a backlog in courts and an increase in industry scrutiny by regulators, as well as resulting in proposed new laws and regulations governing foreclosures. Such laws and regulations might restrict or delay our ability to foreclose and collect payments for single family residential loans under the loss sharing agreements. Recent laws delay the initiation or completion of foreclosure proceedings on specified types of residential mortgage loans (some for a limited period of time), or otherwise limit the ability of residential loan servicers to take actions that may be essential to preserve the value of the mortgage loans. Any such limitations are likely to cause delayed or reduced collections from mortgagors and generally increased servicing costs. As a servicer of mortgage loans, any restriction on our ability to foreclose on a loan, any requirement that we forego a portion of the amount otherwise due on a loan or any requirement that we modify any original loan terms will in some instances require us to advance principal, interest, tax and insurance payments, which may negatively impact our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. In addition, for the single family residential loans covered by the loss sharing agreements, we cannot collect loss share payments until we liquidate the properties securing those loans. These loss share payments could be delayed by an extended foreclosure process, including delays resulting from a court backlog, local or national foreclosure moratoriums or other delays, and these delays could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Like other financial services institutions, our asset and liability structures are monetary in nature. Such structures are affected by a variety of factors, including changes in interest rates, which can impact the value of financial instruments held by us. Like other financial services institutions, we have asset and liability structures that are essentially monetary in nature and are directly affected by many factors, including domestic and international economic and political conditions, broad trends in business and finance, legislation and regulation affecting the national and international business and financial communities, monetary and fiscal policies, inflation, currency values, market conditions, the availability and cost of short-term or long-term funding and capital, the credit capacity or perceived creditworthiness of customers and counterparties and the level and volatility of trading markets. Such factors can impact customers and counterparties of a financial services institution and may impact the value of financial instruments held by a financial services institution. Our earnings and cash flows largely depend upon the level of our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on loans, investments and other interest earning assets, and the interest we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Because different types of assets and liabilities may react differently and at different times to market interest rate changes, changes in interest rates can increase or decrease our net interest income. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets in a period, an increase in interest rates could reduce net interest income. Similarly, when interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly, and because the magnitude of repricing of interest earning assets is often greater than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. Additionally, an increase in interest rates may, among other things, reduce the demand for loans and our ability to originate loans and decrease loan repayment rates, while a decrease in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities and our ability to realize gains on the sale of assets. A decrease in the general level of interest rates may affect us through, among other things, increased prepayments on our loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios and increased competition for deposits. Accordingly, changes in the level of market interest rates affect our net yield on interest earning assets, loan origination volume, loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios and our overall results. Changes in interest rates may also have a significant impact on any future mortgage loan origination revenues. Historically, there has been an inverse correlation between the demand for mortgage loans and interest rates. Mortgage origination volume and revenues usually decline during periods of rising or high interest rates and increase during periods of declining or low interest rates. Changes in interest rates also have a significant impact on the carrying value of a significant percentage of the assets on our balance sheet. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve. We cannot predict the nature and timing of the Federal Reserve’s interest rate policies or other changes in monetary policies and economic conditions, which could negatively impact our financial performance. 32 Table of Contents We have benefited in recent periods from a favorable interest rate environment, but we believe that this environment cannot be sustained indefinitely and interest rates would be expected to rise as the economy recovers. A strengthening U.S. economy would be expected to cause the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve to increase short-term interest rates, which would increase our borrowing costs. The fair value of our investment securities can fluctuate due to market conditions out of our control. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 99% of our investment securities portfolio was comprised of U.S. government agency and sponsored enterprises obligations, U.S. government agency and sponsored enterprises mortgage-backed securities and securities of municipalities. As of December 31, 2012, the fair value of our investment securities portfolio was approximately $1.0 billion. Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. These factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency downgrades of the securities, defaults by the issuer or with respect to the underlying securities, changes in market interest rates and continued instability in the credit markets. In addition, we have historically taken a conservative investment posture, concentrating on government issuances of short duration. In the future, we may seek to increase yields through more aggressive investment strategies, which may include a greater percentage of corporate issuances and structured credit products. Any of these mentioned factors, among others, could cause other-than-temporary impairments in future periods and result in a realized loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The process for determining whether impairment is other-than-temporary usually requires complex, subjective judgments about the future financial performance of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security. Because of changing economic and market conditions affecting issuers and the performance of the underlying collateral, we may recognize realized and/or unrealized losses in future periods, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have a significant deferred tax asset that may not be fully realized in the future. Our net deferred tax asset totaled $198.4 million as of December 31, 2012, of which $144.8 million was excluded from Tier 1 Capital. The ultimate realization of a deferred tax asset is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods prior to the expiration of the related net operating losses and the limitations of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. If our estimates and assumptions about future taxable income are not accurate, the value of our deferred tax asset may not be recoverable and may result in a valuation allowance that would impact our earnings. Recent market disruptions have caused increased liquidity risks and, if we are unable to maintain sufficient liquidity, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors and borrowers. The recent disruption and illiquidity in the credit markets have generally made potential funding sources more difficult to access, less reliable and more expensive. Our liquidity is generally used to make loans and to repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers, and further deterioration in the credit markets or a prolonged period without improvement of market liquidity could present significant challenges in the management of our liquidity and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. For example, if as a result of a sudden decline in depositor confidence resulting from negative market conditions, a substantial number of bank customers tried to withdraw their bank deposits simultaneously, our reserves may not be able to cover the withdrawals. Furthermore, an inability to increase our deposit base at all or at attractive rates would impede our ability to fund our continued growth, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Collateralized borrowings such as advances from the FHLB are an important potential source of liquidity. Our borrowing capacity is generally dependent on the value of the collateral pledged to the FHLB. An adverse regulatory change could reduce our borrowing capacity or eliminate certain types of collateral and could otherwise modify or even eliminate our access to FHLB advances, Federal Fund line borrowings and discount window advances. Liquidity may also be adversely impacted by bank supervisory and regulatory authorities mandating changes in the composition of our balance sheet to asset classes that are less liquid. Any such change or termination may have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to other funding sources could be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the unstable credit markets. We may need to incur additional debt in the future to achieve our business objectives, in connection with future acquisitions or for other reasons. Any borrowings, if sought, may not be available to us or, if available, may not be on favorable terms. Without sufficient liquidity, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors and borrowers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 33 Table of Contents We may not be able to retain or develop a strong core deposit base or other low-cost funding sources. We expect to depend on checking, savings and money market deposit account balances and other forms of customer deposits as our primary source of funding for our lending activities. Our future growth will largely depend on our ability to retain and grow a strong deposit base. Because 35% of our deposits as of December 31, 2012 were time deposits, it may prove harder to maintain and grow our deposit base than would otherwise be the case. We are also working to transition certain of our customers to lower cost traditional banking services as higher cost funding sources, such as high interest certificates of deposit, mature. There may be competitive pressures to pay higher interest rates on deposits, which could increase funding costs and compress net interest margins. Customers may not transition to lower yielding savings or investment products or continue their business with us, which could adversely affect our operations. In addition, with recent concerns about bank failures, customers have become concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC, particularly customers that may maintain deposits in excess of insured limits. Customers may withdraw deposits in an effort to ensure that the amount that they have on deposit with us is fully insured and may place them in other institutions or make investments that are perceived as being more secure. Further, even if we are able to grow and maintain our deposit base, the account and deposit balances can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments (or similar products at other institutions that may provide a higher rate of return), we could lose a relatively low cost source of funds, increasing our funding costs and reducing our net interest income and net income. Additionally, any such loss of funds could result in lower loan originations, which could materially negatively impact our growth strategy and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive industry and face significant competition from other financial institutions and financial services providers, which may decrease our growth or profits. Consumer and commercial banking is highly competitive. Our market contains not only a large number of community and regional banks, but also a significant presence of the country’s largest commercial banks. We compete with other state and national financial institutions as well as savings and loan associations, savings banks and credit unions for deposits and loans. In addition, we compete with financial intermediaries, such as consumer finance companies, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, securities firms, mutual funds and several government agencies as well as major retailers, all actively engaged in providing various types of loans and other financial services. Some of these competitors may have a long history of successful operations in our markets, greater ties to local businesses and more expansive banking relationships, as well as better established depositor bases. Competitors with greater resources may possess an advantage by being capable of maintaining numerous banking locations in more convenient sites, operating more ATMs and conducting extensive promotional and advertising campaigns or operating a more developed Internet platform. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions may adversely affect our ability to market our products and services. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for banks to compete in our market without a retail footprint by offering competitive rates, as well as non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for certain products and services than we can. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including: • the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on quality service and high ethical standards; • the ability to attract and retain qualified employees to operate our business effectively; • the ability to expand our market position; • the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; • the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors; • customer satisfaction with our level of service; and • industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 34 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by the lack of soundness of other financial institutions Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial institutions, or the financial services industry generally, may lead to market-wide liquidity problems and losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. We are subject to losses due to the errors or fraudulent behavior of employees or third parties. We are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, clerical recordkeeping errors and transactional errors. Our business is dependent on our employees as well as third-party service providers to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. We could be materially adversely affected if one of our employees causes a significant operational breakdown or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. When we originate loans, we rely upon information supplied by loan applicants and third parties, including the information contained in the loan application, property appraisal and title information, if applicable, and employment and income documentation provided by third parties. If any of this information is misrepresented and such misrepresentation is not detected prior to loan funding, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. Any of these occurrences could result in a diminished ability of us to operate our business, potential liability to customers, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers, and systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is highly dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers. We outsource many of our major systems, such as data processing, loan servicing and deposit processing systems. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to process new and renewal loans, gather deposits and provide customer service, compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we provide our customers the ability to bank remotely, including online over the Internet. The secure transmission of confidential information is a critical element of remote banking. Our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes, spam attacks, human error, natural disasters, power loss and other security breaches. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and could adversely affect our reputation, results of operations and ability to attract and maintain customers and businesses. In addition, a security breach could also subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability and cause reputational damage. As a public company, we are required to meet periodic reporting requirements under the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Complying with federal securities laws as a public company is expensive, and we will incur significant time and expense enhancing, documenting, testing and certifying our internal control over financial reporting. Any deficiencies in our financial reporting or internal controls could adversely affect our business and the trading price of our Class A common stock. Prior to becoming a public company, we were not required to comply with Securities and Exchange Commission (which we refer to as the “SEC”) requirements to have our financial statements completed and reviewed or audited within a specified time. 35 Table of Contents As a publicly traded company we are required to file periodic reports containing our financial statements with the SEC within a specified time following the completion of quarterly and annual periods. We are also required to comply with certain provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 concerning internal controls over financial reporting commencing in the 2013 fiscal year as described below. We may experience difficulty in meeting the SEC’s reporting requirements. Any failure by us to file our periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner could harm our reputation and reduce the trading price of our Class A common stock. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses. Compliance with other rules of the SEC and the rules of The Nasdaq Global Select Market (which we refer to as “Nasdaq”) will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time consuming and costly. Beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2013, SEC rules will require that our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer periodically certify the existence and effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Beginning with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2018, or such earlier time as we are no longer an “emerging growth company” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (which we refer to as the “JOBS Act”), our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to our assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. This process will require significant documentation of policies, procedures and systems, review of that documentation by our internal auditing staff and our outside auditors and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting by our internal auditing and accounting staff and our outside independent registered public accounting firm. This process will involve considerable time and expense, may strain our internal resources and have an adverse impact on our operating costs. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses and outside auditor fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies that would have to be remediated to satisfy the SEC rules for certification of our internal controls over financial reporting. As a consequence, we may have to disclose in periodic reports we file with the SEC material weaknesses in our system of internal controls. The existence of a material weakness would preclude management from concluding that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective and would preclude our independent auditors from issuing an unqualified opinion that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. In addition, disclosures of this type in our SEC reports could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls over financial reporting, it may negatively impact our business, results of operations and reputation. A material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting was identified for the year ended December 31, 2011 and we have determined that we must enhance our internal audit function. Material weaknesses in our financial reporting or internal controls or gaps in our internal audit procedures could adversely affect our business and the trading price of our Class A common stock. In connection with management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting, we identified a material weakness in such internal control during the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 related to third-party data inputs used in the accounting of impaired loans under ASC 310-30 in the fourth quarter of 2011. The weakness resulted from a formula logic error in a custom analysis used to enhance the process of estimating changes in real estate collateral values and resulted in erroneous estimates which were not timely identified by management’s review of the vendor’s calculations. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The material weakness that we identified was considered in determining the nature, timing, and extent of audit tests applied in the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 and did not affect our independent auditor’s report on the consolidated financial statements dated April 10, 2012, which expressed an unqualified opinion on our consolidated financial statements. We have implemented and will continue to implement measures designed to improve our internal control over financial reporting and strengthen our internal audit function. These measures include, among other things, supplementing the personnel involved in overseeing financial reporting. We have also validated the calculations of, and added additional control points to the development of the manual and spreadsheet outputs generated by the third-party valuation specialists engaged to assist in estimating the cash flow re-estimation, impairment and accretion values in the loan accounting process. While we believe that the actions we are taking and will continue to take to address the existing weakness in internal control over financial reporting and strengthen our internal audit function will mitigate the risk related to the aforementioned internal control material weakness and internal audit matters, we cannot be certain that, at some point in the future, another material weakness will not be identified or our internal audit procedures will not fail to detect a matter they are designed to prevent, and failure to remedy such material weaknesses or enhance our internal audit function could have an adverse impact on our financials and the operation of our business. In addition to the material weakness we reported, Green Bankshares reported a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting in its financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010. Failure to remediate such material weaknesses of our subsidiaries could also have an adverse effect on us. 36 Table of Contents We are an emerging growth company and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our Class A common stock less attractive to investors. In addition, our election not to opt out of JOBS Act extended accounting transition period may make our financial statements less easily comparable to the financial statements of other companies. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. In addition, even if we comply with the greater obligations of public companies that are not emerging growth companies, we may avail ourselves of the reduced requirements applicable to emerging growth companies from time to time in the future, so long as we are an emerging growth company. We will remain an emerging growth company for up to five years, though we may cease to be an emerging growth company earlier under certain circumstances, including if, before the end of such five years, we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the SEC (which depends on, among other things, having a market value of common stock held by non-affiliates in excess of $700 million). We cannot predict if investors will find our Class A common stock less attractive because we will rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our Class A common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our Class A common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. Further, Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies (that is, those that have not had a Securities Act of 1933, amended (which we refer to as the “Securities Act”) registration statement declared effective or do not have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act) are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies but any such an election to opt out is irrevocable. We have elected not to opt out of such extended transition period which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, we, as an emerging growth company, can adopt the new or revised standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard. This may make comparison of our financial statements with another public company which is neither an emerging growth company nor an emerging growth company which has opted out of using the extended transition period difficult or impossible because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events would negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which would have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our market areas in the southeastern region of the United States are susceptible to natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, tropical storms, other severe weather events and related flooding and wind damage, and manmade disasters, such as the 2010 oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. Our market areas in Tennessee are susceptible to natural disasters, such as tornadoes and floods. These natural disasters could negatively impact regional economic conditions, cause a decline in the value or destruction of mortgaged properties and an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or loss on loans originated by us, damage our banking facilities and offices and negatively impact our growth strategy. Such weather events can disrupt operations, result in damage to properties and negatively affect the local economies in the markets where they operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage that may be caused by future hurricanes or tornadoes will affect our operations or the economies in our current or future market areas, but such weather events could negatively impact economic conditions in these regions and result in a decline in local loan demand and loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing our loans and an increase in delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of natural or manmade disasters. Risks Relating to Our Growth Strategy We may not be able to effectively manage our growth. Our future operating results depend to a large extent on our ability to successfully manage our rapid growth. Our rapid growth has placed, and it may continue to place, significant demands on our operations and management. Whether through additional acquisitions or organic growth, our current plan to expand our business is dependent upon: • the ability of our officers and other key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, credit, financial, management and other internal risk controls and processes and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage a growing number of client relationships; • to scale our technology platform; 37 Table of Contents • to integrate our acquisitions and develop consistent policies throughout the various businesses; and • to manage a growing number of client relationships. We may not successfully implement improvements to, or integrate, our management information and control systems, procedures and processes in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. In particular, our controls and procedures must be able to accommodate an increase in expected loan volume and the infrastructure that comes with new branches and banks. Thus, our growth strategy may divert management from our existing businesses and may require us to incur additional expenditures to expand our administrative and operational infrastructure and, if we are unable to effectively manage and grow our banking franchise, our business and our consolidated results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, if we are unable to manage future expansion in our operations, we may experience compliance and operational problems, have to slow the pace of growth, or have to incur additional expenditures beyond current projections to support such growth, any one of which could adversely affect our business. Many of our new activities and expansion plans require regulatory approvals, and failure to obtain them may restrict our growth. We intend to complement and expand our business by pursuing strategic acquisitions of banks and other financial institutions. Generally, any acquisition of target financial institutions or assets by us will require approval by, and cooperation from, a number of governmental regulatory agencies, possibly including the Federal Reserve, the OCC and the FDIC, as well as state banking regulators. In acting on such applications of approval, federal banking regulators consider, among other factors: • the effect of the acquisition on competition; • the financial condition and future prospects of the applicant and the banks involved; • the managerial resources of the applicant and the banks involved; • the convenience and needs of the community, including the record of performance under the CRA; and • the effectiveness of the applicant in combating money-laundering activities. Such regulators could deny our application based on the above criteria or other considerations or the regulatory approvals may not be granted on terms that are acceptable to us. For example, we could be required to sell branches as a condition to receiving regulatory approvals, and such a condition may not be acceptable to us or may reduce the benefit of any acquisition. The success of future transactions will depend on our ability to successfully identify and consummate transactions with target financial institutions that meet our investment criteria. Because of the significant competition for acquisition opportunities and the limited number of potential targets, we may not be able to successfully consummate acquisitions necessary to grow our business. The success of future transactions will depend on our ability to successfully identify and consummate transactions with target financial institutions that meet our investment criteria. There are significant risks associated with our ability to identify and successfully consummate transactions with target financial institutions. There are a limited number of acquisition opportunities, and we expect to encounter intense competition from other banking organizations competing for acquisitions and also from other investment funds and entities looking to acquire financial institutions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting acquisitions directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess ongoing banking operations with greater technical, human and other resources than we do, and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. These organizations may be able to achieve greater cost savings through consolidating operations than we could. Our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target institutions will be limited by our available financial resources. These inherent competitive limitations give others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target financial institutions. In addition, increased competition may drive up the prices for the types of acquisitions we intend to target, which would make the identification and successful consummation of acquisition opportunities more difficult. Competitors may be willing to pay more for target financial institutions than we believe are justified, which could result in us having to pay more for target financial institutions than we prefer or to forego target financial institutions. As a result of the foregoing, we may be unable to successfully identify and consummate future transactions to grow our business on commercially attractive terms, or at all. 38 Table of Contents Because the institutions we intend to acquire may have distressed assets, we may not be able to realize the value we predict from these assets or make sufficient provision for future losses in the value of, or accurately estimate the future writedowns taken in respect of, these assets. Delinquencies and losses in the loan portfolios and other assets of financial institutions that we acquire may exceed our initial forecasts developed during the due diligence investigation prior to acquiring those institutions. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on an entity we decide to acquire, this diligence may not reveal all material issues that may affect a particular entity. The diligence process in FDIC-assisted transactions is also expedited due to the short acquisition timeline that is typical for these depository institutions. If, during the diligence process, we fail to identify issues specific to an entity or the environment in which the entity operates, we may be forced to later write down or write off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in other reporting losses. Any of these events could adversely affect the financial condition, liquidity, capital position and value of institutions we acquire and of the Company as a whole. If any of the foregoing adverse events occur with respect to one subsidiary, they may adversely affect other of our subsidiaries or the Company as a whole. Current economic conditions have created an uncertain environment with respect to asset valuations and there is no certainty that we will be able to sell assets of target institutions if we determine it would be in our best interests to do so. The institutions we will target may have substantial amounts of asset classes for which there is currently limited or no marketability. The success of future transactions will depend on our ability to successfully combine the target financial institution’s business with our existing banking business and, if we experience difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. The success of future transactions will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine the target financial institution’s business with our existing banking business. As with any acquisition involving financial institutions, there may be business disruptions that result in the loss of customers or cause customers to remove their accounts and move their business to competing banking institutions. It is possible that the integration process could result in additional expenses in connection with the integration processes and the disruption of ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Integration efforts, including integration of the target financial institution’s systems into our systems may divert our management’s attention and resources, and we may be unable to develop, or experience prolonged delays in the development of, the systems necessary to operate our acquired banks, such as a financial reporting platform or a human resources reporting platform call center. If we experience difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of any future transaction may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Additionally, we may be unable to recognize synergies, operating efficiencies and/or expected benefits within expected timeframes or expected cost projections, or at all. We may also not be able to preserve the goodwill of the acquired financial institution. Our acquisition of Southern Community Financial may present certain risks to our business and operations. On October 1, 2012, we completed our acquisition of Southern Community Financial. This investment presents the following risks, among others: • the possibility that the expected benefits of the transaction may not materialize in the timeframe expected or at all, or may be more costly to achieve; • the possibility that the parties may be unable to successfully implement integration strategies, due to challenges associated with integrating complex systems, technology, banking centers and other assets of Southern Community Financial in a manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies and integrating Southern Community Financials workforce while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high-quality customer service; • reputational risks and the reaction of the companies’ customers to the transaction; and • the investment may require diversion of the attention of our management and other key employees from ongoing business activities, including the pursuit of other opportunities that could be beneficial to us. Projected operating results for entities to be acquired by us may be inaccurate and may vary significantly from actual results. We will generally establish the pricing of transactions and the capital structure of entities to be acquired by us on the basis of financial projections for such entities. In general, projected operating results will be based primarily on management judgments. In all cases, projections are only estimates of future results that are based upon assumptions made at the time that the projections are developed and the projected results may vary significantly from actual results. General economic, political and market conditions, which are not predictable, can have a material adverse impact on the reliability of such projections. In the event that 39 Table of Contents the projections made in connection with our acquisitions, or future projections with respect to new acquisitions, are not accurate, such inaccuracies could materially and adversely affect our business and our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Our officers and directors may have conflicts of interest in determining whether to present business opportunities to us or another entity with which they are, or may become, affiliated. Our officers and directors may become subject to fiduciary obligations in connection with their service on the boards of directors of other corporations. To the extent that our officers and directors become aware of acquisition opportunities that may be suitable for entities other than us to which they have fiduciary or contractual obligations, or they are presented with such opportunities in their capacities as fiduciaries to such entities, they may honor such obligations to such other entities. In addition, our officers and directors will not have any obligation to present us with any acquisition opportunity that does not fall within certain parameters of our business (which opportunities and parameters are described in more detail in the section entitled “Business”). You should assume that to the extent any of our officers or directors becomes aware of an opportunity that may be suitable both for us and another entity to which such person has a fiduciary obligation or contractual obligation to present such opportunity as set forth above, he or she may first give the opportunity to such other entity or entities and may give such opportunity to us only to the extent such other entity or entities reject or are unable to pursue such opportunity. In addition, you should assume that to the extent any of our officers or directors becomes aware of an acquisition opportunity that does not fall within the above parameters but that may otherwise be suitable for us, he or she may not present such opportunity to us. In general, officers and directors of a corporation incorporated under Delaware law are required to present business opportunities to a corporation if the corporation could financially undertake the opportunity, the opportunity is within the corporation’s line of business and it would not be fair to the corporation and its stockholders for the opportunity not to be brought to the attention of the corporation. However, our certificate of incorporation provides that we renounce any interest or expectancy in certain acquisition opportunities that our officers or directors become aware of in connection with their service to other entities to which they have a fiduciary or contractual obligation. Changes in accounting standards may affect how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (which we refer to as the “FASB”) or other regulatory authorities change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. Risks Relating to the Regulation of Our Industry We operate in a highly regulated industry and the laws and regulations that govern our operations, corporate governance, executive compensation and financial accounting, or reporting, including changes in them, or our failure to comply with them, may adversely affect us. We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision that govern almost all aspects of our operations. Intended to protect customers, depositors, consumers, deposit insurance funds and the stability of the U.S. financial system, these laws and regulations, among other matters, prescribe minimum capital requirements, impose limitations on our business activities, limit the dividend or distributions that we can pay, restrict the ability of institutions to guarantee our debt and impose certain specific accounting requirements that may be more restrictive and may result in greater or earlier charges to earnings or reductions in our capital than GAAP. Compliance with laws and regulations can be difficult and costly and changes to laws and regulations often impose additional compliance costs. We are currently facing increased regulation and supervision of our industry as a result of the financial crisis in the banking and financial markets. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Further, our failure to comply with these laws and regulations, even if the failure was inadvertent or reflects a difference in interpretation, could subject us to restrictions on our business activities, fines and other penalties, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, capital base and the price of our securities. Further, any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial condition. 40 Table of Contents We are periodically subject to examination and scrutiny by a number of banking agencies and, depending upon the findings and determinations of these agencies, we may be required to make adjustments to our business that could adversely affect us. Federal and state banking agencies periodically conduct examinations of our business, including compliance with applicable laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination, a federal banking agency were to determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, asset concentration, earnings prospects, management, liquidity sensitivity to market risk or other aspects of any of our operations has become unsatisfactory, or that we or our management is in violation of any law or regulation, it could take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin “unsafe or unsound” practices, to require affirmative actions to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in our capital, to restrict our growth, to change the asset composition of our portfolio or balance sheet, to assess civil monetary penalties against our officers or directors, to remove officers and directors and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate our deposit insurance. If we become subject to such regulatory actions, our business, results of operations and reputation may be negatively impacted. The enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 may have a material effect on our operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (which we refer to as the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which imposes significant regulatory and compliance changes. The key effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business are: • changes to regulatory capital requirements; • exclusion of hybrid securities, including trust preferred securities, issued on or after May 19, 2010 from Tier 1 capital; • creation of new government regulatory agencies (such as the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which will oversee systemic risk, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which will develop and enforce rules for bank and non-bank providers of consumer financial products); • potential limitations on federal preemption; • changes to deposit insurance assessments; • regulation of debit interchange fees we earn; • changes in retail banking regulations, including potential limitations on certain fees we may charge; and • changes in regulation of consumer mortgage loan origination and risk retention. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act restricts the ability of banks to engage in certain proprietary trading or to sponsor or invest in private equity or hedge funds. The Dodd-Frank Act also contains provisions designed to limit the ability of insured depository institutions, their holding companies and their affiliates to conduct certain swaps and derivatives activities and to take certain principal positions in financial instruments. Some provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective immediately upon its enactment. Many provisions, however, will require regulations to be promulgated by various federal agencies in order to be implemented, some of which have been proposed by the applicable federal agencies. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may have unintended effects, which will not be clear until implementation. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with the new requirements may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse to investors in our Class A common stock. The short-term and long-term impact of the new regulatory capital standards and the forthcoming new capital rules is uncertain. On September 12, 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, announced an agreement to a strengthened set of capital requirements for internationally active banking organizations in the United States and around the world, known as Basel III. Basel III increases the requirements for minimum common equity, minimum Tier 1 capital and minimum total capital, to be phased in over time until fully phased in by January 1, 2019. Various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act increase the capital requirements of bank holding companies, such as the Company, and non-bank financial companies that are supervised by the Federal Reserve. The leverage and risk-based capital 41 Table of Contents ratios of these entities may not be lower than the leverage and risk-based capital ratios for insured depository institutions. In particular, bank holding companies, many of which have long relied on trust preferred securities as a component of their regulatory capital, will no longer be permitted to count trust preferred securities toward their Tier 1 capital. In June 2012, the Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC released proposed rules which would implement the Basel III and Dodd-Frank Act capital requirements. While the Basel III changes and other regulatory capital requirements will likely result in generally higher regulatory capital standards, it is difficult at this time to predict how any new standards will ultimately be applied to us and our subsidiary bank. The FDIC’s restoration plan and the related increased assessment rate could adversely affect our earnings. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured depository institutions, such as our subsidiary bank, up to applicable limits. The amount of a particular institution’s deposit insurance assessment is based on that institution’s risk classification under an FDIC risk-based assessment system. An institution’s risk classification is assigned based on its capital levels and the level of supervisory concern the institution poses to its regulators. Market developments have significantly depleted the deposit insurance fund of the FDIC (which we refer to as the “DIF”) and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. As a result of recent economic conditions and the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has increased the deposit insurance assessment rates and thus raised deposit premiums for insured depository institutions. If these increases are insufficient for the DIF to meet its funding requirements, there may need to be further special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Any future additional assessments, increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums may materially adversely affect results of operations, including by reducing our profitability or limiting our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. We are subject to federal and state and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to material penalties. Federal and state fair lending laws and regulations, such as the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act, impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Department of Justice, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and other federal and state agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution’s performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. A successful challenge to our performance under the fair lending laws and regulations could adversely impact our rating under the Community Reinvestment Act and result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on merger and acquisition activity and restrictions on expansion activity, which could negatively impact our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. The federal Bank Secrecy Act, the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (which we refer to as the “PATRIOT Act”) and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain effective anti-money laundering programs and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, established by the U.S. Treasury Department to administer the Bank Secrecy Act, is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration and Internal Revenue Service. There is also increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (which we refer to as “OFAC”). If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient or the policies, procedures and systems of the financial institutions that we have already acquired or may acquire in the future are deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions such as restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including our acquisition plans, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us. Federal, state and local consumer lending laws may restrict our ability to originate certain mortgage loans or increase our risk of liability with respect to such loans and could increase our cost of doing business. Federal, state and local laws have been adopted that are intended to eliminate certain lending practices considered “predatory.” These laws prohibit practices such as steering borrowers away from more affordable products, selling unnecessary insurance to borrowers, repeatedly refinancing loans and making loans without a reasonable expectation that the borrowers will be able to repay the loans irrespective of the value of the underlying property. It is our policy not to make predatory loans, but 42 Table of Contents these laws create the potential for liability with respect to our lending and loan investment activities. They increase our cost of doing business and, ultimately, may prevent us from making certain loans and cause us to reduce the average percentage rate or the points and fees on loans that we do make. The Federal Reserve may require us to commit capital resources to support our subsidiary bank. The Federal Reserve, which examines us and our subsidiaries, requires a bank holding company to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to a subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support such subsidiary bank. Under the “source of strength” doctrine, the Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act directs the federal bank regulators to require that all companies that directly or indirectly control an insured depository institution serve as a source of strength for the institution. Under these requirements, in the future, we could be required to provide financial assistance to our subsidiary bank if it experiences financial distress. A capital injection may be required at times when we do not have the resources to provide it, and therefore we may be required to borrow the funds. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the holding company’s general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note obligations. Thus, any borrowing that must be done by the holding company in order to make the required capital injection becomes more difficult and expensive and will adversely impact the holding company’s cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Stockholders may be deemed to be acting in concert or otherwise in control of Capital Bank, which could impose prior approval requirements and result in adverse regulatory consequences for such holders. We are a bank holding company regulated by the Federal Reserve. Accordingly, acquisition of control of us (or our bank subsidiary) requires prior regulatory notice or approval. With certain limited exceptions, federal regulations prohibit potential investors from, directly or indirectly, acquiring ownership or control of, or the power to vote, more than 10% (more than 5% if the acquirer is a bank holding company) of any class of our voting securities, or obtaining the ability to control in any manner the election of a majority of directors or otherwise exercising a controlling influence over our management or policies, without prior notice or application to, and approval of, the Federal Reserve under the Change in Bank Control Act or the BHCA. Any bank holding company or foreign bank with a U.S. presence also is required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve under the BHCA to acquire or retain more than 5% of our outstanding voting securities. In addition to regulatory approvals, any stockholder deemed to “control” us for purposes of the BHCA would become subject to investment and activity restrictions and ongoing regulation and supervision. Any entity owning 25% or more of any class of our voting securities, or a lesser percentage if such holder or group otherwise exercises a “controlling influence” over us, will be subject to regulation as a “bank holding company” in accordance with the BHCA. In addition, such a holder may be required to divest holdings of 5% or more of the voting securities of investments that may be deemed impermissible for a bank holding company, such as an investment in a company engaged in non-financial activities. Regulatory determination of “control” of a depository institution or holding company is based on all of the relevant facts and circumstances. In certain instances, stockholders may be determined to be “acting in concert” and their shares aggregated for purposes of determining control for purposes of the Change in Bank Control Act. “Acting in concert” generally means knowing participation in a joint activity or parallel action towards the common goal of acquiring control of a bank or a parent company, whether or not pursuant to an express agreement. How this definition is applied in individual circumstances can vary among the various federal bank regulatory agencies and cannot always be predicted with certainty. Many factors can lead to a finding of acting in concert, including whether: • stockholders are commonly controlled or managed; • stockholders are parties to an oral or written agreement or understanding regarding the acquisition, voting or transfer of control of voting securities of a bank or bank holding company; • the holders each own stock in a bank and are also management officials, controlling stockholders, partners or trustees of another company; or • both a holder and a controlling stockholder, partner, trustee or management official of the holder own equity in the bank or bank holding company. 43 Table of Contents Our common stock owned by holders determined by a bank regulatory agency to be acting in concert would be aggregated for purposes of determining whether those holders have control of a bank or bank holding company for Change in Bank Control Act purposes. Because the control regulations under the Change in Bank Control Act and the BHCA are complex, potential investors should seek advice from qualified banking counsel before making an investment in our Class A common stock. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We could issue additional common stock, which might dilute the book value of our common stock and reduce your influence over matters on which stockholders vote. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without action or vote of our stockholders, to issue all or any part of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock, including shares that may be issued to satisfy our obligations under our incentive plans, shares of our authorized but unissued preferred stock and securities and instruments that are convertible into our common stock. Such stock issuances could be made at a price that reflects a discount or a premium from the then-current trading price of our common stock and might dilute the book value of our common stock. In addition, issuances of common stock or voting preferred stock would reduce your influence over matters on which our stockholders vote and, in the case of issuances of preferred stock, likely would result in your interest in us being subject to the prior rights of holders of that preferred stock. An active, liquid market for our Class A common stock may not develop or be sustained, which likely would materially and adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Before our recent initial public offering, there had been no established public market for our Class A common stock. Although our Class A common stock recently began trading on Nasdaq, an active, liquid trading market for our Class A common stock may not develop or be sustained, which likely would materially and adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Stockholders also may not be able to sell their shares of our Class A common stock at the volume, prices and times desired. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline due to the large number of outstanding shares of our common stock eligible for future sale. Sales of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock in the public market following the date of this report, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. These sales could also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future, at a time and place that we deem appropriate. Upon completion of our initial public offering (including the partial exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option) and the reorganization, we had 33,024,707 shares of Class A common stock and 22,821,216 shares of Class B non-voting common stock issued and outstanding. Of the outstanding shares of Class A common stock, all of the 10,476,801 shares sold in our initial public offering (including the partial exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option), other than the 886,525 shares purchased by Crestview-NAFH, LLC and any other shares that were purchased in our initial public offering by a holder that is subject to a lock-up agreement, are freely tradable, except that any shares purchased by “affiliates” (as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act). Our other outstanding shares are subject to lock-up agreements described below, which are expected to expire in March 2013. We have agreed that we will not offer, sell, contract to sell, pledge or otherwise dispose of, directly or indirectly, or file with the SEC a registration statement under the Securities Act relating to, any shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any shares of our common stock, or publicly disclose the intention to make any offer, sale, pledge, disposition or filing, without the prior written consent of Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (which we refer to as “Credit Suisse”) for a period of 180 days after September 19, 2012, the date of the prospectus for our initial public offering, except issuances pursuant to the exercise of employee stock options outstanding on the date of the prospectus for our initial public offering as described therein, in connection with the reorganization, in connection with business combinations (provided that the aggregate number of shares issued, together with shares issuable pursuant to the terms of any other securities issued, does not exceed 10% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of the closing of our initial public offering) and the filing of a shelf registration statement pursuant to the registration rights agreement entered into by us and our stockholders in connection with our private 44 Table of Contents placements. Our officers, directors, largest shareholder and our other pre-IPO stockholders have also agreed, subject to certain exceptions, that they will not offer, sell, contract to sell, pledge or otherwise dispose of, directly or indirectly, any shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any shares of our common stock, enter into a transaction that would have the same effect, or enter into any swap, hedge or other arrangement that transfers, in whole or in part, any of the economic consequences of ownership of our common stock, whether any of these transactions are to be settled by delivery of our common stock or other securities, in cash or otherwise, or publicly disclose the intention to make any offer, sale, pledge or disposition, or to enter into any transaction, swap, hedge or other arrangement, without, in each case, the prior written consent of Credit Suisse, the lead underwriter for our initial public offering, for a 180-day “lock-up” period, which also began on September 19, 2012. These 180-day periods are subject to extension in certain circumstances. In addition, our stockholders holding registrable shares who are not selling in our initial public offering are also subject to a 180-day lock-up period with certain exceptions under our registration rights agreement. In addition, we filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register an aggregate of approximately 4.5 million shares of Class A common stock for issuance under our 2010 Equity Incentive Plan. Any shares issued in connection with acquisitions, the exercise of stock options or otherwise would dilute the percentage ownership held by current investors. If shares of Class B non-voting common stock are converted into shares of Class A common stock, your voting power will be diluted. Generally, holders of Class B non-voting common stock have no voting power and have no right to participate in any meeting of stockholders or to have notice thereof. However, holders of Class B non-voting common stock that are converted into Class A common stock will have all the voting rights of the other holders of Class A common stock. Class B non-voting common stock is not convertible in the hands of the initial holder. However, a transferee unaffiliated with the initial holder that receives Class B non-voting common stock subsequent to transfer permitted by our certificate of incorporation may elect to convert each share of Class B non-voting common stock into one share of Class A common stock. Upon conversion of any Class B non-voting common stock, your voting power will be diluted in proportion to the decrease in your ownership of the total outstanding Class A common stock. The market price of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of an investment in our Class A common stock to decline. The market price of our Class A common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • general market conditions; • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in or failure to meet publicly disclosed expectations as to our future financial performance; • downgrades in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or lack of research and reports by industry analysts; • changes in market valuations or earnings of similar companies; • any future sales of our common stock or other securities; and • additions or departures of key personnel. The stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These types of broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. In the past, stockholders have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Any similar litigation against us could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources and harm our business or results of operations. For example, we are currently operating in, and have benefited from, a protracted period of historically low interest rates that will not be sustained indefinitely, and future fluctuations in interest rates could cause an increase in volatility of the market price of our Class A common stock. 45 Table of Contents We do not currently intend to pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future and our ability to pay dividends will be subject to restrictions under applicable banking laws and regulations. We do not currently intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of cash dividends in the future will be dependent upon various factors, including our earnings, if any, cash balances, capital requirements and general financial condition. The payment of any dividends will be within the discretion of our then-existing Board of Directors. It is the present intention of our Board of Directors to retain all earnings, if any, for use in our business operations in the foreseeable future and, accordingly, our Board of Directors does not currently anticipate declaring any dividends. Because we do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock for some time, any gains on an investment in our Class A common stock will be limited to the appreciation, if any, of the market value of our Class A common stock. Banks and bank holding companies are subject to certain regulatory restrictions on the payment of cash dividends. Federal bank regulatory agencies have the authority to prohibit bank holding companies from engaging in unsafe or unsound practices in conducting their business. The payment of dividends by us depending on our financial condition could be deemed an unsafe or unsound practice. Our ability to pay dividends will directly depend on the ability of our subsidiary bank to pay dividends to us, which in turn will be restricted by the requirement that it maintains an adequate level of capital in accordance with requirements of its regulators and, in the future, can be expected to be further influenced by regulatory policies and capital guidelines. In addition, on August 24, 2010, Capital Bank entered into the OCC Operating Agreement, which in certain circumstances will restrict Capital Bank’s ability to pay dividends to us, to make changes to its capital structure and to make certain other business decisions. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and the loss sharing agreements may have anti-takeover effects, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock and could entrench management. In addition, Delaware law may inhibit takeovers of us and could limit our ability to engage in certain strategic transactions our Board of Directors believes would be in the best interests of stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include the ability of our Board of Directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock, which may make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities, including our Class A common stock. Our loss sharing agreements with the FDIC require that we receive prior FDIC consent, which may be withheld by the FDIC in its sole discretion, prior to us or our stockholders engaging in certain transactions. If any such transaction is completed without prior FDIC consent, the FDIC would have the right to discontinue the relevant loss sharing arrangement. Among other things, prior FDIC consent is required for (1) a merger or consolidation of us or our bank subsidiary with or into another company if our stockholders will own less than 66.66% of the combined company, (2) the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of any of our bank subsidiary and (3) a sale of shares by a stockholder, or a group of related stockholders, that will effect a change in control of Capital Bank, as determined by the FDIC with reference to the standards set forth in the Change in Bank Control Act (generally, the acquisition of between 10% and 25% of any class of our voting securities where the presumption of control is not rebutted, or the acquisition by any person, acting directly or indirectly or through or in concert with one or more persons, of 25% or more of any class of our voting securities). If we or any stockholder desired to enter into any such transaction, the FDIC may not grant its consent in a timely manner, without conditions, or at all. If one of these transactions were to occur without prior FDIC consent and the FDIC withdrew its loss share protection, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, statutes, regulations and policies that govern bank holding companies, including the BHCA, may restrict our ability to enter into certain transactions. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law. We have not opted out of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (which we refer to as the “DGCL”), which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a public Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination (as defined in such section) with an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of such corporation or any person affiliated with such person) for a period of three years following the time that such stockholder became an interested 46 Table of Contents stockholder, unless (1) prior to such time the board of directors of such corporation approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder; (2) upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock of such corporation at the time the transaction commenced (excluding for purposes of determining the voting stock outstanding (but not the outstanding voting stock owned by the interested stockholder) the voting stock owned by directors who are also officers or held in employee benefit plans in which the employees do not have a confidential right to tender or vote stock held by the plan); or (3) on or subsequent to such time the business combination is approved by the board of directors of such corporation and authorized at a meeting of stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock of such corporation not owned by the interested stockholder. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 