D. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various changing business, competitive, economic, political and social conditions in China and worldwide. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this annual report, the following are some of the important factors that could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and business prospects, and cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. 8 Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our future growth and profitability depend on the demand for and the prices of solar power products and the development of photovoltaic technologies. The solar power industry is at a relatively early stage of development and has experienced rapid growth in recent years. The rate and extent of market acceptance for solar power depends on the cost-effectiveness, performance and reliability of solar power relative to conventional and other renewable energy sources. Advancements in photovoltaic technologies significantly affect the demand for solar power products. Demand for solar power products is also affected by macroeconomic factors, such as energy supply, demand and prices, as well as regulations and policies governing renewable energies and related industries. For example, demand for solar power products declined precipitously in late 2008 due to decreased financing availability for downstream buyers caused by the global economic crisis. As a result, decreased demand coupled with increased manufacturing capacity caused a decline in the prices of solar power products. The prices of solar power products further declined in 2009, 2010 and 2011 primarily due to decreased prices of polysilicon as well as increased manufacturing capacity for solar power products. In 2010, as the effect of the global economic crisis subsided, the combination of increased availability of financing for downstream buyers and decreased average selling prices of solar power products contributed to an overall increase in demand for solar power products. However, in 2011, a decrease in payment to solar power producers, in the form of feed-in tariffs and other reimbursements, and a reduction in available financing caused a decrease in the demand for solar power products, including solar modules, in the European markets. Payments to solar power producers decreased as governments in Europe, under pressure to reduce sovereign debt levels, reduced subsidies such as feed-in tariffs. Furthermore, many downstream purchasers of solar power products were unable to secure sufficient financing for the solar power projects due to the global credit crunch. As a result, many solar power producers that purchase solar power products from manufacturers like us were unable or unwilling to expand their operations. These market conditions were exacerbated by an over-supply of solar power products driven by increased manufacturing capacity, which adversely affected the prices of solar power products. As a result, the average selling price of our solar modules, our principal product which represented 90% of our total revenues in 2011, decreased by 28.7% from RMB12.2 per watt for the year ended December 31, 2010 to RMB8.7 (US$1.4) per watt for the year ended December 31, 2011. We cannot assure you that the price of solar modules will not further decline in the future. Any reduction in the price of solar modules will have a negative impact on our revenue and results of operations. As a result, we may not be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis. For example, we experienced net losses in the fourth quarter of 2011. In addition, if these negative market and industry trends continue and demand for solar power projects and solar power products weakens, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. A significant reduction in or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives for the use and development of solar power products may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business prospects. We believe that market demand for solar power and solar power products in the near term will continue to substantially depend on the availability of government incentives because the cost of solar power currently exceeds, and we believe will continue to exceed in the near term, the cost of conventional fossil fuel energy and certain non-solar renewable energy. Various governments have used policy initiatives to encourage or accelerate the development and adoption of solar power and other renewable energy sources. Countries in Europe, notably Italy, Germany, France, Belgium and Spain, certain countries in Asia, including China, Japan, India and South Korea, as well as Australia and the United States have adopted renewable energy policies. Examples of government-sponsored financial incentives to promote solar power include capital cost rebates, feed-in tariffs, tax credits, net metering and other incentives to end-users, distributors, project developers, system integrators and manufacturers of solar power products. Governments may reduce or eliminate existing incentive programs for political, financial or other reasons, which will be difficult for us to predict. Reductions in feed-in tariff programs may result in a significant fall in the price of and demand for solar power products. For example, the German market represents a major portion of the world’s solar market due in large part to government policies that established high feed-in tariff rates. However, the German government has introduced legislation to reduce the feed-in-tariff program since 2010 due to the strong growth of its domestic solar market. In Spain, since 2009, continued reductions in the feed-in tariff as a result of its government's spending cut backs have resulted in a weakened solar market. In 2010, Italy also announced annual reductions to feed-in tariffs beginning in 2011 in an effort to impede overheating of its solar market. In 2011 and the first quarter of 2012, several countries, including Germany, Italy, France, our three largest export markets, and certain other major markets for solar power and solar power products, such as Greece, Spain and Belgium continued to reduce their feed-in tariffs as well as other incentive measures. 9 As we generated 82.6% of our sales revenues from overseas market, and our three largest export markets, Germany, Italy, and France represented 32.8%, 25.0% and 5.6% of our total sales revenue, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2011, any significant reduction in the scope or discontinuation of, government incentive programs in the overseas markets, especially where our major customers are located, could cause demand for our products and our revenue to decline and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, the announcement of a significant reduction in incentives in any major market may have an adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. We may not be able to obtain sufficient silicon raw materials in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We source virgin polysilicon primarily through a combination of spot market purchases and purchases under long-term contracts. We have one long-term virgin ploysilicon supply contract with each of Wuxi Zhongcai Technological Co., Ltd., or Zhongcai Technological, Hoku Materials, Inc., together with its parent company, Hoku Corporation (formerly known as Hoku Scientific, Inc.), or Hoku, Luoyang Zhonggui Hi-Tech Limited Company, No.1 Branch, or Luoyang Zhonggui and a reputable German polysilicon supplier, under which we have agreed to procure an aggregate of 6,974 metric tons of virgin polysilicon from 2011 to 2020. For the year ended December 31, 2011, spot market purchases and purchases under our long-term contracts accounted for approximately 74.2% and 25.8%, respectively, of our total silicon purchases by value. To secure high quality raw materials from reputable suppliers and mitigating our exposure to potential price volatility of silicon materials, we intend to continue to procure raw materials through a combination of purchases under long-term supply contracts and spot market purchases to meet our requirements in the future. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, our five largest suppliers provided approximately 54.1%, 47.4% and 57.8%, respectively, of our total silicon purchases by value. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, no suppliers accounted for more than 10% of our total silicon purchases by value. For the year ended December 31, 2011, three of our suppliers individually accounted for more than 10%, and our largest supplier accounted for 16.5%, of our total silicon purchases by value. Although the global supply of polysilicon has increased significantly, we may experience interruption to our supply of silicon raw materials or late delivery in the future for the following reasons, among others: • suppliers under our silicon material supply contracts may delay deliveries for a significant period of time without incurring penalties; 10 • as we only began our business operations in June 2006, we generally do not have a long history with our virgin polysilicon suppliers and there can be no assurance that they will be able to meet our production needs consistently or on a timely basis; • compared with us, some of our competitors who also purchase virgin polysilicon from our suppliers have longer and stronger relationships with and have greater buying power and bargaining leverage over some of our key suppliers; and • our supply of silicon raw materials is subject to the business risk of our suppliers, some of whom have limited operating history and limited financial resources, and one or more of which could go out of business for reasons beyond our control in the current economic environment. See "— Hoku may not be able to complete its plant construction in a timely manner or may cease to continue as a going concern, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition." Our failure to obtain the required amounts of silicon raw materials in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms would increase our manufacturing costs and/or substantially limit our ability to meet our contractual obligations to deliver products to our customers. Any failure by us to meet such obligations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, ability to retain customers, market share, business and results of operations and may subject us to claims from our customers and other disputes. Furthermore, our failure to obtain sufficient silicon raw materials would result in under-utilization of our production facilities and an increase in our marginal production costs. Any of the above events could have a material adverse effect on our growth, profitability and results of operations. Volatility in the prices of silicon raw materials makes our procurement planning challenging and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Polysilicon is an essential raw material used in the production of our solar power products. The prices of polysilicon have shown significant volatility in the past few years. Prior to the second half of 2008, there was an industry-wide shortage of polysilicon, which resulted in sharp increases in the prices of polysilicon. According to Solarbuzz LLC, or Solarbuzz, spot prices of polysilicon rose to a peak of US$450-US$475/kg by mid-2008. However, from the fourth quarter of 2008 to the second quarter of 2010, the prices of polysilicon fell significantly to US$52/kg-US$53/kg as reflected in the Photon Consulting Silicon Price Index, or PCSPI. In the third quarter of 2010, according to PCSPI, the spot price of polysilicon began to increase and reached US$80/kg in March 2011, but it started to fall in May 2011 and significantly decreased to US$25/kg in December 2011. The spot price of polysilicon started to increase in January 2012 and reached US$28/kg in March 2012, according to PCSPI. We expect that the prices of virgin polysilicon feedstock may continue to be subject to volatility, making our procurement planning challenging. For example, if we refrain from entering into fixed-price, long-term supply contracts, we may miss the opportunities to secure long-term supplies of virgin polysilicon at favorable prices if the price of virgin polysilicon increases significantly in the future. On the other hand, if we enter into more fixed-price, long-term supply contracts, we may not be able to renegotiate or otherwise adjust the purchase prices under such long-term supply contracts if the price declines. In each case, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 11 In addition, if the spot price of virgin polysilicon continues to decrease, and we are not able to reduce the price under the long term supply contract to a level equal or below the spot price through renegotiation, the price arrangement under the long term supply contract may cause our cost of silicon raw materials to be higher than that of our competitors who source their supply of silicon raw materials based on floating-price arrangements or spot market purchases. For example, under our long-term polysilicon supply contract with Hoku, the annual prices for the first four years are fixed. However, if the difference between the contract price under our long-term supply contract with Hoku and the average contract price for the last twelve months reflected in the PCSPI or another mutually acceptable third party index exceeds a defined band, the price under our long-term supply contract with Hoku will be subject to renegotiation by the parties. Hoku is obligated to deliver polysilicon materials to us starting from July 1, 2012. We cannot assure you that the difference between the prices in our long-term supply contract with Hoku and the average contract prices for the last twelve months before the delivery date of Hoku reflected in the PCSPI or another mutually acceptable third party will be big enough to trigger the price renegotiation, if spot market price of virgin polysilicon falls below the contract price under our long-term supply contract with Hoku. The prices of polysilicon under our long-term supply contract with Hoku for the first four years are higher than the spot price of March 2012 as reflected in the PCSPI. In addition, under our one-year supply contract with a reputable German polysilicon supplier, the supplier has agreed to supply to us virgin polysilicon for one year starting from January 2012, with a fixed price for each monthly delivery. The average price of polysilicon under this supply contract is slightly lower than the spot price of March 2012 as reflected in the PCSPI. However, we cannot assure that the fixed price under this supply contract will not be higher than the sport price if the spot price of virgin polysilicon continues to decrease. To the extent we may not be able to fully pass higher costs and expenses on to our customers, our profit margins, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Notwithstanding our continuing efforts to further diversify our customer base, we derive, and expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers. As a result, the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any of these customers would significantly reduce our revenues and harm our results of operations. We expect that our results of operations will, for the foreseeable future, continue to depend on the sale of our products to a relatively small number of customers. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, the sales to our top five customers represented 23.7%, 29.8% and 33.6% of our total revenues, respectively. In particular, sales to one of our customers accounted for 16.1% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. No other customer generated sales that individually exceeded 10% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, no customer generated sales that individually exceeded 10% of our revenues. Our relationships with our key customers for solar modules have been developed over a relatively short period of time and are generally in their early stages. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to generate significant revenues from these customers or that we will be able to maintain these customer relationships. The loss of sales to any of these customers could also have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and results of operations. We may continue to undertake acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or other strategic alliances, and such undertakings may be unsuccessful. We have expanded our product lines into solar cells through our acquisition of Zhejiang Jinko in June 2009 and developed a solar power project in China, in late 2011 through our project company, Delingha Solar Power Co., Ltd., or Delingha Solar Power, in which we hold 88.7% of the equity interest. We may in the future continue to grow our operations through acquisitions, participation in joint ventures or other strategic alliances with suppliers or other companies in China and overseas along the solar power industry value chain. Such acquisitions, participation in joint ventures and strategic alliances may expose us to new operational, regulatory, market and geographical risks as well as risks associated with additional capital requirements and diversion of management resources. In particular, our acquisitions may expose us to various risks: • There may be unforeseen risks relating to the target's business and operations or liabilities of the target that were not discovered by us through our legal and business due diligence prior to such acquisition. Such undetected risks and liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations in the future. 12 • There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain customer relationships with previous customers of the target, or develop new customer relationships in the future. Loss of our existing customers or failure to establish relationships with new customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. • Acquisitions will generally divert a significant portion of our management and financial resources from our existing business and the integration of the target's operations with our existing operations has required, and will continue to require, significant management and financial resources, potentially straining our ability to finance and manage our existing operations. • There is no assurance that the expected synergies from any acquisition or joint venture investment will actually materialize. If we are not successful in the integration of a target's operations, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue from its operations to recover costs and expenses of the acquisition. • Acquisition or participation in new joint venture or strategic alliance may involve us in the management of operation in which we do not possess extensive expertise. The materialization of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not appropriately maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our business, results of operations and the market price of our ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011. See “Item 15. — Controls and Procedures.” However, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. This could in turn result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred and may need to incur additional costs and use additional management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other requirements going forward. We manufacture our products in two locations in China, which exposes us to various risks relating to long-distance transportation of our silicon wafers and solar cells in the manufacturing process. We produce and will continue to produce silicon ingots, silicon wafers and most of our solar modules in our manufacturing facilities in Shangrao, Jiangxi Province while produce solar cells and a portion of solar modules in our manufacturing facilities in Haining, Zhejiang Province. As a result, we transport a substantial volume of our silicon wafers from Shangrao to Haining to be processed into solar cells and a substantial volume of our solar cells from Haining back to Shangrao to be processed into solar modules. The geographical separation of our manufacturing facilities necessitates constant long-distance transportation of substantial volumes of our silicon wafers and solar cells between Shangrao and Haining. The distance between Shangrao and Haining is approximately 410 kilometers and the two cities are connected by roads and railway. The constant long-distance transportation of a large volume of our silicon wafers and solar cells may expose us to various risks, including (i) increase in transportation costs, (ii) loss of our silicon wafers and/or solar cells as a result of any accidents that may occur in the transportation process; (iii) delays in the transportation of our silicon wafers or solar cells as a result of any severe weather conditions, natural disasters or other conditions adversely affecting road traffic between Haining and Shangrao; and (iv) disruptions to our production of solar cells and solar modules as a result of delays in the transportation of our silicon wafers and solar cells. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 13 Prepayment arrangements to suppliers for the procurement of silicon raw materials expose us to the credit risks of such suppliers and may also significantly increase our costs and expenses, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our supply contracts generally include prepayment obligations for the procurement of silicon raw materials. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately RMB417.7 million (US$66.4 million) of advances to suppliers, including RMB188.4 million (US$29.9 million) of advances to suppliers to be utilized beyond one year, which consisted primarily of prepayments under our long-term virgin polysilicon supply contracts, such as our contracts with Hoku and Zhongcai Technological. We generally do not receive collateral to secure such payments for these contracts and the collateral we received are deeply subordinated and shared with all other customers and other senior lenders of the supplier. See “— Hoku may not be able to complete its plant construction in a timely manner or may cease to continue as a going concern, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.” Our prepayments, secured or unsecured, expose us to the credit risks of our suppliers, and reduce our chances of obtaining the return of such prepayments in the event that our suppliers become insolvent or bankrupt. Moreover, we may have difficulty recovering such prepayments if any of our suppliers fails to fulfill its contractual delivery obligations to us. Accordingly, a default by our suppliers to whom we have made substantial prepayment may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. For example, Zhongcai Technological, to which we have made prepayment of RMB95.6 million (US$15.2 million) suspended its production at the end of 2011 in response to the change in the polysilicon market and resumed part of its production in March 2012. If Zhongcai Technological cannot ramp up its production with a reasonable profit margin or undergoes any difficulty in its operation, we may not be able to recover all or any of the prepayment that has been made to Zhongcai Technological and may have to rely on the guarantee provide by Wuxi Zhongcai Group Co., Ltd., the parent company of Zhongcai Technological, to recover the prepayment. As of December 31, 2011, we did not record any provisions in relation to the prepayment to Zhongcai Technological as we believe the potential impairment loss was not probable. We are also exposed to risks associated with our prepayments to Hoku. See "— Hoku may not be able to complete its plant construction in a timely manner or may cease to continue as a going concern, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition." In addition, if the market price of silicon raw materials declines, we may not be able to adjust any historical payment insofar as it relates to a future delivery at a fixed price. To the extent that we are unable to pass these increased costs and expenses to our customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 14 Hoku may not be able to complete its plant construction in a timely manner or may cease to continue as a going concern, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have entered into a long-term supply contract with Hoku, a virgin polysilicon supplier, pursuant to which we have made total prepayments of US$20.0 million. Pursuant to amendment No. 3 to the Hoku contract we entered into with Hoku in September 2011, Hoku has agreed to refund a total of US$2.2 million of our deposit in monthly installments from September 2011 to June 2012. As of the date of this annual report, US$880,000 has been already refunded and US$19.12 million of such prepayments are still outstanding. While our prepayment is secured by a lien on Hoku’s assets according to the terms of our supply contract with Hoku, such lien is deeply subordinated and shared with all other customers and other senior lenders of Hoku. Under our long-term polysilicon supply contract with Hoku, the annual prices for the first four years are fixed. However, if the difference between the contract price and the average contract price for the last twelve months reflected in the PCSPI or another mutually acceptable third party index exceeds a defined band, the price under our long-term supply contract with Hoku will be subject to renegotiation by the parties. The prices for the final four years will be determined by both parties three months prior to each shipment date. Under amendment No. 3 to the Hoku contract, the first shipment date of the polysilicon materials has been further postponed to July 1, 2012, which was previously scheduled at July 1, 2011. According to Hoku’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2011 filed on March 5, 2012, Hoku expects to raise at least an additional US$139.8 million to complete the construction of its planned 4,000 metric ton plant with an total estimated cost of US$700.0 million. However, due to financing difficulties, Hoku has to temporarily suspended all construction activities in its polysilicon plant until these financing difficulties are resolved, which Hoku anticipates will occur in the fourth quarter of 2012, with the goal of commencing production of polysilicon in 2013. In addition, given that the current market conditions that have depressed polysilicon prices in the solar power industry, Hoku is evaluating a plan to delay commercial production of virgin polysilicon in its existing plant in favor of accelerating the expansion of its production capacity. As such, Hoku may not be able to fulfill its delivery obligations for 2012 under the long-term supply agreements with one or more of its customers, which may result in termination of such supply agreements and Hoku may be required to refund prepayments under the supply agreements and may not receive promised additional prepayments. According to Hoku’s Form 10-Q, in order to avoid price adjustments and/or breaching its supply contracts, Hoku may purchase polysilicon from third parties if it does not produce sufficient amounts to meet its customer obligations. Since Hoku had not entered into any agreements to purchase polysilicon as of the date of its Form 10-Q, we are not certain if Hoku will be able to provide us the polysilicon in the amount and quality as stipulated in our long-term supply contract, nor can we assure you that Hoku will be able to fulfill its contractual delivery obligations to us in a timely manner in the future. In addition, if Hoku is unable to obtain the required financing by the fourth quarter of 2012, it could raise substantial doubt about Hoku’s ability to continue as a going concern. The inability to continue as a going concern could result in an orderly wind-down of Hoku or other potential restructuring of Hoku. According to the public filings of Hoku on December 22, 2009, Hoku issued shares and warrants representing a majority of its shares to Tianwei New Energy Holdings Co., Ltd., or Tianwei, a PRC company engaged in the manufacturing of silicon wafers, solar cells and solar modules. In addition, pursuant to the arrangement between Hoku and Tianwei, Tianwei has the right to appoint a majority of the directors of Hoku Scientific, thus giving Tianwei control of Hoku. In exchange, Tianwei cancelled US$50 million of indebtedness that Hoku would be obligated to repay to Tianwei under certain polysilicon supply agreements and Tianwei agreed to arrange additional loan financing for Hoku. Tianwei has committed to using its reasonable best efforts to assist Hoku, in return of fair compensation for its financial service in obtaining additional financing that may be required by Hoku to construct and operate its manufacturing facility. We cannot be certain that Hoku will reach an agreement with Tianwei regarding the amount or method of compensation, which could affect Tianwei’s willingness to continue to assist Hoku in obtaining necessary financing. If Hoku is not successful in obtaining financing required to complete construction of the manufacturing facility by the fourth quarter of 2012, or Hoku loses the assistance of Tianwei in obtaining necessary financing, causing Hoku to fail to fulfill its contractual delivery obligations to us, or if Hoku ceases to continue as a going concern, we may have difficulty recovering the balance of the deposits we have paid to Hoku. In such case, we may be obliged to record provisions for impairment loss for all or part of our prepayments to Hoku, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2011, we did not record any provisions in relation to the prepayment to Hoku as the potential impairment loss was not probable. 15 Decreases in the price of silicon raw materials and solar power products, including solar modules, may result in additional provisions for inventory losses. We typically plan our production and inventory levels based on our forecasts of customer demand, which may be unpredictable and can fluctuate materially. Recent market volatility has made it increasingly difficult for us to accurately forecast future product demand trends. Due to the decrease in the prices of silicon raw materials and solar power products, including solar modules, which have been our principal products since 2010, we recorded inventory provisions of RMB11.4 million, RMB29.6 million and RMB201.7 million (US$32.0 million) for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. If the prices of silicon materials and continue to decrease, the carrying value of our existing inventory may exceed its market price in future periods, thus requiring us to make additional provisions for inventory valuation, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Increases in electricity costs or a shortage or disruption of electricity supply may adversely affect our business. We consume a significant amount of electricity in our operations. Electricity prices in China have increased in the past few years and are expected to continue to increase in the future. Our average per kilowatt-hour, or kWh, electricity price increased from RMB0.584 in 2009 to RMB0.675 (US$0.107) in 2011. As a result, our electricity costs may become substantially higher than our competitors, which could diminish our competitive advantage and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, with the rapid development of the PRC economy, demand for electricity has continued to increase. There have been shortages or disruptions in electricity supply in various regions across China, especially during peak seasons, such as the summer, or when there are severe weather conditions. To prevent further disruption in our power supply, the Shangrao Economic Development Zone Management Committee and Shangrao County Power Supply Co., Ltd. have completed the construction of the first stage of an electric power transformation and distribution substation at our manufacturing site. The electric power transformation and distribution substation currently has an annual capacity of 438 million kWh. We plan to complete the construction of our own electric power transformation and distribution substation with an annual capacity of approximately 7 million kWh and a gross floor area of approximately 6,667 square meters in Shangrao, Jiangxi Province by mid-2012. However, we cannot assure you that there will not be disruptions or shortages in our electricity supply or that there will be sufficient electricity available to us to meet our future requirements. Increases in electricity costs, shortages or disruptions in electricity supply may significantly disrupt our normal operations, cause us to incur additional costs and adversely affect our profitability. We face intense competition in solar power product markets. If we fail to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or new competitors, our business prospects and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. The markets for solar power products are intensely competitive. We compete with manufacturers of solar power products such as Sharp Corporation, Suntech Power Holdings Co., Ltd., or Suntech, Trina Solar Ltd., or Trina, and Yingli Green Energy Holding Co., Ltd., or Yingli Green Energy, in a continuously evolving market. Recently, some downstream manufacturers have also built out or expanded their silicon wafer or solar cell production operations. Some of these competitors are also our customers and suppliers. 16 Some of our current and potential competitors have a longer operating history, stronger brand recognition, more established relationships with customers, greater financial and other resources, a larger customer base, better access to raw materials and greater economies of scale than we do. Furthermore, some of our competitors are integrated players in the solar industry that engage in the production of virgin polysilicon. Their business models may give them competitive advantages as these integrated players place less reliance on the upstream suppliers and/or downstream customers. In addition, as we have recently commenced developing solar power projects and providing solar system integration services, we may face the extensive competition among the competitors in these businesses, such as Trina and Yingli Green Energy. Some of our potential competitors in this industry may have a longer history, a more extensive experience in this industry, greater financial and other resources, stronger brand recognition, stronger relationships with customers and greater economies of scale than we do. Moreover, the key barriers to entry into our industry at present consist of availability of financing, availability of experienced technicians and executives who are familiar with the industry and the implementation of market access standards. If these barriers disappear or become more easily surmountable, new competitors may successfully enter into our industry, resulting in loss of our market share and increased price competition, which could adversely affect our operating and net margins. Technological changes in the solar power industry could render our products uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our revenue and net income to decline. The solar power industry is characterized by evolving technologies and standards. These technological evolutions and developments place increasing demands on the improvement of our products, such as solar cells with higher conversion efficiency and larger and thinner silicon wafers and solar cells. Other companies may develop production technologies enabling them to produce silicon wafers, solar cells and solar modules that yield higher conversion efficiencies at a lower cost than our products. Some of our competitors are developing alternative and competing solar technologies that may require significantly less silicon than crystalline silicon wafers and solar cells, or no silicon at all. Technologies developed or adopted by others may prove more advantageous than ours for commercialization of solar power products and may render our products obsolete. As a result, we may need to invest significant resources in research and development to maintain our market position, keep pace with technological advances in the solar power industry and effectively compete in the future. Our failure to further refine and enhance our products and processes or to keep pace with evolving technologies and industry standards could cause our products to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which could in turn reduce our market share and materially adversely affect our results of operations. Existing regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar power products, which may significantly reduce demand for our products. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as by policies adopted by electric utility companies. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection requirements for customer-owned electricity generation. In a number of countries, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. Customer purchases of, or further investment in the research and development of, alternative energy sources, including solar power technology, could be deterred by these regulations and policies, which could result in a significant reduction in the demand for our products. For example, without a regulatory mandated exception for solar power systems, utility customers may be charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. These fees could increase the cost of solar power and make it less desirable, thereby decreasing the demand for our products, harming our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 17 In addition, we anticipate that solar power products and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local regulations relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection, and metering and related matters. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to solar power products may result in significant additional expenses to the users of solar power products and, as a result, could eventually cause a significant reduction in demand for our products. We may be subject to significant vacant land fees or even forfeit our land use rights with respect to two pieces of land zoned for residential use. In January and June 2008, Jiangxi Jinko obtained the land use rights for two parcels of land zoned for residential use in the Shangrao Economic Development Zone with site areas of approximately 102,507 square meters and 133,334 square meters, respectively. Jiangxi Jinko paid an aggregate amount of RMB157.7 million in relation to such land use rights, including land use right fees of RMB151.5 million and relevant taxes and fees of RMB6.2 million. Under the agreement between the local land and resource bureau and Jiangxi Jinko, Jiangxi Jinko was only permitted to develop residential buildings on these two parcels of land and was required to commence its construction and development work no later than August 31, 2008 and December 31, 2008, respectively. While we intend to construct employee dormitories on these two parcels, we have not started construction on these parcels of land yet and do not have any concrete plan for construction. Under the relevant PRC laws and regulations, unless the delay of the construction is caused by force majeure, government actions or any necessary pre-construction work, if Jiangxi Jinko fails to commence construction and development work on these two parcels of land within one year after the respective deadlines, it may be subject to a fine of 20% of the land use right fees, which is up to approximately RMB30.3 million. We may also be subject to liquidated damages for failure to commence construction promptly. If Jiangxi Jinko does not commence construction and development work within two years after the respective deadlines, it may forfeit its land use rights without compensation. Jiangxi Jinko obtained a confirmation letter dated August 16, 2009 issued by the local land and resource bureau, or the local land bureau, in which the local land bureau confirmed that the two parcels of land had not been delivered to Jiangxi Jinko because the pre-construction work had not been finished by the local land bureau, and therefore, Jiangxi Jinko would not be subject to any vacant land fees or liquidated damages due to its failure to commence construction before the above-mentioned deadlines. The letter further confirmed that Jiangxi Jinko's land use rights for the two parcels of land would not be affected. In September 2010, the State Council of China and other relevant government departments commenced a new round of nation-wide investigation on idle land and will penalize those who are responsible for leaving land idle. We cannot assure you that such action taken by the government will not have material adverse effect on our right to and use of the above two parcels of land. 18 We rely on a limited number of third-party suppliers for supplying key manufacturing equipment and we may face termination and late charges and risks relating to the termination and amendment of certain equipment purchases contracts. We rely on a limited number of equipment suppliers for all our principal manufacturing equipment and spare parts, including our silicon ingot furnaces, squaring machines, wire saws, diffusion furnaces, firing furnaces and screen print machine. For the year ended December 31, 2011, our top three equipment suppliers include Miyamoto Trading Limited, or Miyamoto, Applied Materials Baccini S.P.A. (currently "Applied Materials Italia S.R.L."), or Applied Materials and Centrotherm Photovoltaics AG, or Centrotherm. These suppliers have supplied most of our current principal equipment and spare parts. We originally planned to expand our annual production capacity for silicon wafers, solar cells and solar modules to 1.5 GW each by the end of 2011. However, in response to the changes in the market condition, we timely adjusted our expansion plan and plan to maintain our production capacity for these three products at our current level of 1.2 GW each. Instead of expanding our production capacity, we plan to focus on improving our efficiency to reduce our unit cost. However, to implement our original expansion plan, we had already entered into purchase agreements for purchasing additional manufacturing equipment by the end of 2011. Our purchase capital commitments under these contracts amounted to approximately RMB439.1 million (US$69.8 million) as of December 31, 2011, of which RMB109.3 million (US$17.4 million) will be due in 2012 and RMB329.8 million (US$52.4 million) will be due after one year but within five years. We may terminate these equipment purchase agreements or revise their terms in line with our new plan and as a result, may be subject to cancellation and late charges. In addition, we will continue to rely on these suppliers to provide a substantial portion of the principal manufacturing equipment and spare parts if we implement any expansion plan in the future. If we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with these and other equipment suppliers, or should any of our major equipment suppliers encounter difficulties in the manufacturing or shipment of its equipment or spare parts to us, including due to natural disasters or otherwise fail to supply equipment or spare parts according to our requirements, it will be difficult for us to find alternative providers for such equipment on a timely basis and on commercially reasonable terms. As a result, our production and result of operation could be adversely affected. We require a significant amount of cash to fund our operations and future business developments; if we cannot obtain additional capital on terms satisfactory to us when we need it, our growth prospects and future profitability may be materially and adversely affected. We require a significant amount of cash to fund our operations, including payments to suppliers for our polysilicon feedstock. We may also require additional cash due to changing business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue, as well as our research and development activities in order to remain competitive. We had a negative working capital balance as of December 31, 2011. Our management believes that our current cash position as of December 31, 2011, the cash expected to be generated from operations and funds available from borrowings under the bank quotas will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months from December 31, 2011. However, in light of the amount of bank borrowings and bonds due in the near term future, sufficient funds may not be available to us. Accordingly, we may need to reduce discretionary spending and raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing. For information on our proposed issuance of unsecured one-year short-term bonds with an aggregate principal amount of RMB300 million on April 23, 2012, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our ability to obtain external financing is subject to a number of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • the state of global credit markets; • general market conditions for financing activities by companies in our industry; and • economic, political and other conditions in China and elsewhere. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to our shareholders and debt financing, if available, may involve covenants that would restrict us. Additional funds may not be available on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all. Failure to manage discretionary spending and raise additional capital or debt financing as required may adversely impact our ability to achieve our intended business objectives. See “ - Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.” 19 Selling our products on credit terms may increase our working capital requirements and expose us to the credit risk of our customers. We sell our products to most of our customers on credit terms and allow them to delay payments of the full purchase price for a certain period of time after delivery of our products. Selling our products on credit terms has increased, and may continue to increase our working capital requirements, which may negatively impact our short-term liquidity. We may not be able to maintain adequate working capital primarily through cash generated from our operating activities and may need to secure additional financing for our working capital requirements. If we fail to secure additional financing on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us or at all, our financial conditions, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. In addition, we are exposed to the credit risk of customers to which we have made credit sales in the event that any of such customers becomes insolvent or bankrupt or otherwise does not make payments to us on time. We face risks associated with the marketing, distribution and sale of our products internationally, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks our ability to expand our business abroad may be required. We commenced export sales in May 2008 when we exported a small portion of our products to Hong Kong. Since then we have increased our sales in export markets. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we generated 82.6% of our revenues from export sales, and 91.4% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 are denominated in foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars and Euros. We plan to continue to increase sales outside China and expand our customer base overseas. However, the marketing, distribution and sale of our products in export markets may expose us to a number of risks, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • increased costs associated with maintaining the ability to understand the local markets and follow their trends, as well as develop and maintain effective marketing and distributing presence in various countries; • providing customer services and support in these markets; • failure to develop appropriate risk management and internal control structures tailored to overseas operations; • difficulty and cost relating to compliance with the different commercial, environmental and legal requirements of the export markets in which we offer or plan to offer our products and services; • failure to obtain or maintain certifications for our products or services in these markets; • failure to maintain our reputation as an environmentally friendly enterprise for our products or services in these markets; • inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; • unanticipated changes in prevailing economic conditions and regulatory requirements; • increased transportation and freight costs; • difficulty in employing and retaining sales personnel who are knowledgeable about, and can function effectively in, export markets; • trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make us less competitive in some countries; and 20 • challenges due to our unfamiliarity with local laws, regulation and policies, our absence of significant operating experience in local market, increased cost associated with establishment of overseas subsidiaries and maintaining a multi-national organizational structure and other various risks that are beyond our control. Our exports to foreign markets, such as Europe, have increased significantly during the last three years, increasing the risk that any unfavorable trade policies in foreign markets could affect the sale of our products. As our manufacturing bases are located in China, we may be affected by any claims of unfair trade practices that are brought against the PRC government through the imposition of tariffs, non-tariff barriers to trade or other trade remedies. On September 9, 2010, the United Steel Workers filed a petition with the United States Trade Representative, or USTR, alleging the PRC government has engaged in unfair trade policies and practices with respect to certain domestic industries, including the solar power industry. Subsequently, USTR initiated an investigation under Section 301 of the 1974 Trade Act, which is ongoing as of the date of this annual report. On December 22, 2010, acting on a petition by the USTR, the United States government filed a complaint with the World Trade Organization about subsidies offered by the PRC government to its wind-energy manufacturers, which has not been resolved as of this annual report. On January 7, 2011, U.S. President Barack Obama signed into law the Military Authorization Law, which contains a "Buy American" provision that prohibits the United States Defense Department from purchasing Chinese-made solar panels. We are also involved in an anti-dumping and countervailing duty investigation launched by the U.S. government. See “—We may be subject to anti-dumping and countervailing duties imposed by the U.S. government.” Any significant changes in international trade policies, practices or trade remedies, especially those instituted in our target markets or markets where our major customers are located, could increase the price of our products compared to our competitors or decrease our customers' demand for our products, which may adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. We may be subject to anti-dumping and countervailing duties imposed by the U.S. government. On October 19, 2011, the Coalition for American Solar Manufacturing (the “CASM”), which is made up of seven solar power product manufacturers in the United States and led by SolarWorld Industries America Inc., filed a broad trade case at the United States Commerce Department (the “U.S. Commerce Department”) against the Chinese solar industry, accusing it of using billions of dollars in government subsidies to help gain sales in the U.S. market and seeking tariffs of more than 100% of the wholesale price of solar panels from China (the “Filing”). JinkoSolar is on the list of the solar companies subject to investigation by the U.S. Commerce Department. On November 9, 2011, the U.S. Commerce Department announced that it launched an anti-dumping and countervailing duty investigation into the alleged unfair practices by the PRC government in support of its domestic solar photovoltaic industry, in response to the Filing brought by CASM (the “Investigation”). We filed our response to the Investigation with the U.S. Commerce Department on November 29, 2011. Subsequently, we duly filed the separate rate application with U.S. Commerce Department on January 19, 2012. In March 2012, the U.S. Commerce Department announced a preliminary decision to impose countervailing duties between 2.9% and 4.73% on Chinese solar panels, Suntech and Trina Solar will be subject to countervailing duties at the rate of 2.9% and 4.73%, respectively, while the other Chinese solar module vendors including JinkoSolar will be subject to countervailing duties at the rate of 3.59%. The countervailing duties will be retroactive by 90 days from March 26, 2012 only if both the U.S. International Trade Commission and the U.S. Commerce Department ultimately find the critical circumstances exist. The U.S. Commerce Department expects to make final decision on countervailing duties in June 2012. A preliminary decision on the anti-dumping investigation is scheduled on May 16, 2012. 21 We currently sell a small portion of our solar modules directly to U.S. market. Our direct sales to the U.S. market accounted for 1.6% of our total sales in 2011. However, if the U.S. government imposes significant import tariff on the solar modules from China, our sales in U.S. may be adversely affected, which may in turn materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that other government or international trade body will not institute adverse trade policies or remedies against exports from China in the future. If such actions were undertaken in our major export markets, such as Europe, our sales, revenue and profit could be materially and adversely affected. We are exposed to various risks related to legal or administrative proceedings or claims that could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and reputation, and may cause loss of business. Litigation in general can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. We and/or our directors and officers may be involved in allegations, litigation or legal or administrative proceedings in the from time to time. On October 11, 2011, JinkoSolar was named as a defendant in a putative shareholder class action lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York captioned Marco Peters v. JinkoSolar Holding Co., Ltd., et al., Case No. 11-CV-7133 (S.D.N.Y.) (the “U.S. Securities Action”). In addition to JinkoSolar, the complaint also names as defendants Xiande Li, Kangping Chen, Xianhua Li, Wing Koen Siew, Haitao Jin, Zibin Li, Stephen Markscheid, Longgen Zhang (the “Individual Defendants”), and the underwriters of our initial public offering in May 2010. The plaintiff in the U.S. Securities Action seeks to represent a class of all purchasers and acquirers of ADSs of JinkoSolar between May 13, 2010 and September 21, 2011, inclusive. The plaintiff alleges that the defendants violated Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act and Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, by making material misstatements or failing to disclose material information regarding, among other things, JinkoSolar’s compliance with environmental regulations at its Haining facility. The complaint also asserts claims against the Individual Defendants for control person liability under Section 15 of the Securities Act and Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act. The complaint seeks, among other things, certification of the putative class, unspecified compensatory damages (including interest), and costs and expenses incurred in the action. On March 19, 2012, the court entered an order appointing lead plaintiffs in the U.S. Securities Action. On April 2, 2012, the court directed lead plaintiffs to file an amended complaint on or before May 30, 2012. The deadline for defendants to move, answer or otherwise respond to the amended complaint is July 30, 2012. We are also involved in the anti-dumping and countervailing duty investigation launched by the U.S. government. See “—We may be subject to anti-dumping and countervailing duties imposed by the U.S. government.” Regardless of the merits, responding to allegation, litigation or legal or administration proceedings and defending against litigation can be time consuming and costly, and may result in us incurring substantial legal and administrative expenses, as well as divert the attention of our management. Any such allegations, lawsuits or proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Further, unfavourable outcomes from these claims or lawsuits could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Project development or construction activities may not be successful and projects under development may not receive required permits or construction may not commence as scheduled, which could increase our costs and impair our ability to recover our investments. In addition, we may not be able to sell the solar power projects we developed under commercially acceptable terms, or at all. The development of solar power projects and construction of solar energy facilities involve numerous risks and potential delays. We may be required to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, legal, and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive or capable of being built. Success in developing a particular project is contingent upon, among other things: ·negotiation of satisfactory engineering, procurement and construction agreements; ·receipt of required governmental permits and approvals, including the right to interconnect to the electric grid; ·payment of interconnection and other deposits (some of which are non-refundable); ·obtaining construction financing; and ·timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction. Successful completion of a particular project may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: ·delays in obtaining required governmental permits and approvals; ·uncertainties relating to land costs for projects on land subject to governmental approval; ·unforeseen taxes, engineering problems, or other issues; ·construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls; ·work stoppages; ·cost over-runs; ·equipment and materials supply; ·adverse weather conditions; and ·environmental and geological conditions. In addition, we may not be able to sell the solar power projects we develop under commercially acceptable terms, or at all, which will have a material and adverse affect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. We rely on local grid companies for grid connection and grid companies may not have adequate transmission capacity or may be unwilling to purchase and transmit electricity generated by our solar power plants. In addition, the on-grid tariff is subject to fluctuations. We must obtain consents from local grid companies to connect our solar power plants to their power grids before constructing an on-grid integrated solar system. Such consent depends on a number of external factors, including the availability of existing grids with adequate transmission capacity, progress of grid construction or system upgrades, the distance between our preferred sites and the local grids and the costs of additional interconnection facilities. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and we may not be able to obtain all necessary consents for our new solar power system integration projects in a timely manner, or at all. 23 Further, under the current regulatory framework in the PRC, grid companies generally must purchase and dispatch all electricity generated by renewable energy producers within the coverage of their grids. However, we cannot assure you that local grid companies will comply with this obligation at all times. In addition, solar power plants and other renewable energy facilities of our competitors located near our solar power system integration projects may compete with us to secure grid connections. Grid companies may not have adequate transmission capacity or may be unwilling to purchase and transmit electricity generated by our solar power plants. We may not be able to dispatch electricity when our solar power system integration projects commence operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. In addition, the on-grid tariff is subject to fluctuations. Historically, there was no national feed-in tariff mechanism for on-grid solar power plants. In July 2011, the National Development and Reform Commission, or NDRC launched the unified pricing mechanism for on-grid solar power plants in China. Pursuant to the unified pricing mechanism, the on-grid tariff (including value added tax) for on-grid solar power plants either approved after July 1, 2011 or completed after December 31, 2011 (excluding on-grid solar power plants located in Tibet) will be RMB1.00/KWh. For on-grid solar power plants sponsored by central government subsidies, the desulphurised coal-fired electricity prices shall apply. However, we cannot assure you the on-grid tariff of on-grid solar power plant will not fluctuate in the future. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may cause us to substantially change our planned projects, incur significant costs and increase the risk of our future investment, and our business prospects and results of our on-grid solar power plant and solar system integration service business may be materially and adversely affected. We may be subject to non-competition or other similar restrictions or arrangements relating to our business. We may from time to time enter into non-competition, exclusivity or other restrictions or arrangements of a similar nature as part of our sales agreements with our customers. Such restrictions or arrangements may significantly hinder our ability to sell additional products, or enter into sales agreements with new or existing customers that plan to sell our products, in certain markets. As a result, such restrictions or arrangements may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We may be exposed to the credit and performance risks of a third party, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition. On June 13, 2009, we entered into a loan agreement, or the Heji Loan Agreement, with Jiangxi Heji Investment Co., Ltd., or Heji Investment, for loans with an aggregate principal amount of up to RMB100 million. We borrowed RMB50.0 million from Heji Investment under the Heji Loan Agreement. In September and October 2009, we and Heji Investment re-arranged our borrowings under the Heji Loan Agreement into entrusted loans with an aggregate principal amount of RMB50.0 million pursuant to the entrusted loan agreements with Agricultural Bank of China, or the Entrusted Loan Agreements. In connection with the Heji Loan Agreement, we entered into a guarantee agreement, or the Guarantee Agreement, with Jiangxi International Trust Co., Ltd., or JITCL, on May 31, 2009 to guarantee Heji Investment's repayment obligations to JITCL under a loan agreement, or the JITCL Loan Agreement, pursuant to which JITCL extended a loan to Heji Investment in the principal amount of RMB50 million for a term of three years. None of the Heji Loan Agreement, the Entrusted Loan Agreements, the Guarantee Agreement and the JITCL Loan Agreement requires Heji Investment to apply the proceeds it will receive from our repayment of the entrusted loans to perform its repayment obligations under the JITCL Loan Agreement. If Heji Investment fails to perform its obligations under the JITCL Loan Agreement for any reason or otherwise defaults thereunder, we will become liable for Heji Investment's obligations under the JITCL Loan Agreement. We cannot assure you that Heji Investment will apply the proceeds of our loan repayment under the Entrusted Loan Agreements to perform its obligations under the JITCL Loan Agreement or otherwise make full repayment thereunder upon maturity. We have fully repaid the entrusted loans in July 2011. However, we have not been released from our obligations and therefore, we may still be required to perform obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, which would have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition. 24 Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We typically require a significant amount of cash to meet our capital requirements, including the expansion of our production capacity, as well as to fund our operations. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately RMB2,200.0 million (US$349.5 million) in outstanding short-term borrowings (including the current portion of long-term bank borrowings) and RMB155.5 million (US$24.7 million) in outstanding long-term bank borrowings (excluding the current portion and deferred financing cost). Since December 31, 2011, we have entered into additional short-term loan contracts in an aggregate principal amount of RMB1,222.1 million (US$194.1 million), most of which are secured by mortgage on buildings, equipment and land use rights as well as guarantee by our founders and Jiangxi Jinko and repaid short-term bank borrowings of RMB894.8 million (US$142.2 million). Since December 31, 2011, we have also entered into additional long-term loan contracts in an aggregate principal amount of RMB50.0 million (US$7.9 million), most of which are secured by mortgage on equipment and repaid long-term bank borrowings of RMB1.0 million (US$ 0.2 million). As of the date of this annual report, we had RMB2,527.3 million (US$401.5 million) in outstanding short-term borrowings (including the current portion of long-term bank borrowings) and RMB205.5 million (US$32.7 million) in outstanding long-term bank borrowings (excluding the current portion and deferred financing cost). In addition, we have substantial repayment obligations under the notes we issued. On May 17, 2011, we issued convertible senior notes in the principal amount of US$125 million due 2016, bearing an annual interest rate of 4.00%, to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A of the Securities Act. On December 5, 2011, we repurchased an aggregate principal amount of US$2.0 million of such notes for a total consideration of RMB5.2 million (US$0.8 million). As of the date of this annual report, our convertible senior notes with principal amount of US$123.0 million are outstanding. On July 8, 2011, we issued RMB-denominated notes in the principal amount of RMB400 million bearing an annual interest rate of 6.5% and maturing on July 11, 2012. As of the date of this annual report, these notes are still outstanding. This level of debt could have significant consequences on our operations, including: • reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes as a result of our debt service obligations, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and • potentially increasing the cost of any additional financing. Any of these factors and other consequences that may result from our substantial indebtedness could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as our ability to meet our payment obligations under our debt. Our ability to meet our payment obligations under our outstanding debt depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We had a negative working capital balance as of December 31, 2011. Our management believes that our current cash position as of December 31, 2011, the cash expected to be generated from operations and funds available from borrowings under the bank quotas will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months from December 31, 2011. However, in light of the amount of bank borrowings and bonds due in the near term future, sufficient funds may not be available to us. Accordingly, we may need to reduce discretionary spending and raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing. For information on our proposed issuance of unsecured one-year short-term bonds with an aggregate principal amount of RMB300 million on April 23, 2012, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to our shareholders and debt financing, if available, may involve covenants that would restrict us. Additional funds may not be available on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all. Failure to manage discretionary spending or raise additional capital or debt financing as required may adversely impact our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt, which may have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. 25 Our failure to maintain sufficient collateral under certain pledge contracts for our short-term bank loans may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2011, Jiangxi Jinko had short-term bank borrowings of RMB178.0 million (US$28.3 million) secured by certain of our inventory. The net book value of the inventory at the time of the pledge contracts amounted to approximately RMB343.5 million (US$54.6 million). Although the net book value of the inventory as of December 31, 2011 exceeded the amount of the pledge required, we can not assure you that we will not be requested by the pledgees to provide additional collateral to bring the value of the collateral to the level required by the pledgees if our inventory depreciates in the future. If we fail to provide additional collateral, the pledgees will be entitled to require the immediate repayment by us of the outstanding bank loans, otherwise, the pledgees may auction or sell the inventory and negotiate with us to apply the proceeds from the auction or sale to the repayment of the underlying loan. Furthermore, we may be subject to liquidated damages pursuant to relevant pledge contracts. Although the pledgees have conducted regular site inspections on our inventory since the pledge contracts were executed, they have not requested us to provide additional collateral or take other remedial actions. However, we cannot assure you the pledgees will not require us to provide additional collateral in the future or take other remedial actions or otherwise enforce their rights under the pledge contracts and loan agreements. If any of the foregoing occurs, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our principal operating subsidiaries, Jiangxi Jinko and Zhejiang Jinko, and limitations on their ability to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are a holding company and rely principally on dividends paid by our principal operating subsidiaries, Jiangxi Jinko and Zhejiang Jinko, for cash requirements. Zhejiang Jinko entered into loan agreements with a group of PRC banks on March 31, 2011, which were subsequently amended in August 2011. Pursuant to these loan agreements, Zhejiang Jinko has obtain two syndicated loans with an aggregate principal amount of RMB600.0 million (US$91.0 million) from a group of PRC banks, of which RMB486.8 million (US$77.3 million) were drawn down and RMB113.2 million (US$18.0 million) were available as of the date this annual report. Pursuant to the syndicated loan agreements, Zhejiang Jinko may pay dividends only if it complies with the agreed repayment schedule. Although such debt was incurred by Zhejiang Jinko, we cannot assure you that Jiangxi Jinko will not also enter into instruments that may restrict dividends or other distribution to us on our equity interests in the future. Furthermore, applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations permit payment of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries only out of their retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards. Our PRC subsidiaries are required to set aside a certain percentage of their after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year as reserve funds for future development and employee benefits, in accordance with the requirements of relevant laws and provisions in their respective articles of associations. As a result, our PRC subsidiaries may be restricted in their ability to transfer any portion of their net income to us whether in the form of dividends, loans or advances. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could materially adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. 26 Failure to achieve satisfactory production volumes of our products could result in higher unit production costs. The production of silicon wafers, solar cells, solar modules, silicon ingots and recovered silicon materials involves complex processes. Deviations in the manufacturing process can cause a substantial decrease in output and, in some cases, disrupt production significantly or result in no output. From time to time, we have experienced lower-than-anticipated manufacturing output during the ramp-up of production lines. This often occurs during the introduction of new products, the installation of new equipment or the implementation of new process technologies. As we bring additional lines or facilities into production, we may operate at less than intended capacity during the ramp-up period. In addition, the decreased demand in global solar power product market, including the demand for solar modules, may also cause us to operate at less than intended capacity. This would result in higher marginal production costs and lower output, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period in the future. Our results may be affected by factors such as changes in costs of raw materials, delays in equipment delivery, suppliers' failure to perform their delivery obligations and interruptions in electricity supply and other key production inputs. Our results may also be affected by the general economic conditions and the state of the credit markets both in China and elsewhere in the world, which may affect the demand for our products and the availability of financing. The rapid expansion of virgin polysilicon manufacturing capacity and the falling demand for solar power products including our products resulting from the global economic crisis caused the prices of solar power products including our products to decline in the fourth quarter of 2008 and in 2009. As a consequence, our profit margins were adversely affected in the fourth quarter of 2008 and in 2009. In addition, because demand for solar power products tends to be weaker during the winter months partly due to adverse weather conditions in certain regions, which complicate the installation of solar power systems, our operating results may fluctuate from period to period based on the seasonality of industry demand for solar power products. Our sales in the first quarter of any year may also be affected by the occurrence of the Chinese New Year holiday during which domestic industrial activity is normally lower than that at other times. Further, in order to become a fully-integrated maker of solar power products, we have rapidly expanded our manufacturing capacities of silicon wafers, solar cells and solar modules over the past few years, and the respective manufacturing capacities of our products in the value chain were not matched until the end of 2010. To fully capture the demand for various types of solar power products, at different times during 2009 and 2010, we sold silicon wafers and solar cells as end-products to certain customers, and also purchased silicon wafers and solar cells as inputs for the manufacturing of solar cells and solar modules, respectively, and sold these solar cells and solar modules as end-products. As a result, compared to a fully-integrated maker of solar power products of comparable size with equal manufacturing capacities for silicon wafers, solar cells and solar modules, our sales and our total revenues were larger and our gross profit margin was lower as we were not able to capture the profit in the entire value chain. In future periods, although we have become a fully vertically-integrated solar power roduct provider, our sales revenues and gross profit margin may continue to vary as we continue to adjust the production and sales of silicon wafers, solar cells and solar modules to capture the market opportunities for different products. In addition, from time to time we may apply for and receive government incentives in the form of grants, and the amount of such grants varies from period to period, which may cause our net income and net margin to vary from period to period. We received government grants totaling RMB8.6 million, RMB70.7 million and RMB117.2 million (US$18.6 million) for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively, which included government grants for assets, our expansion of production scale, technology upgrades and development of export markets. We cannot assure you that we will continue to receive a similar amount or any amount of government subsidy in future periods. In addition, we may incur gain or loss in relation to our change in the fair value of our financial instruments. For example, in 2011, we had net gain from change in fair value of convertible senior notes and capped call options of RMB299.7 million (US$47.6 million), compared to net income of RMB273.3million (US$43.3 million). The change in fair value of financial instruments may fluctuate significantly from period to period due to factors that are largely beyond our control, and may result in us recording substantial gains or losses as a result of such changes. As a result of the foregoing, you may not be able to rely on period to period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. 27 Unsatisfactory performance of or defects in our products may cause us to incur additional expenses and warranty costs, damage our reputation and cause our sales to decline. Our products may contain defects that are not detected until after they are shipped or inspected by our customers. Our silicon wafer sales contracts normally require our customers to conduct inspection before delivery. We may, from time to time, allow those of our silicon wafer customers with good credit to return our silicon wafers within a stipulated period, which normally ranges from seven to 15 working days after delivery, if they find our silicon wafers do not meet the required specifications. Our standard solar cell sales contract requires our customer to notify us within seven days of delivery if such customer finds our solar cells do not meet the specifications stipulated in the sales contract. If our customer notifies us of such defect within the specified time period and provides relevant proof, we will replace those defective solar cells with qualified ones after our confirmation of such defects. Our solar modules are typically sold with either a two-year or five-year warranty for all defects and a 10-year and 25-year warranty against declines of more than 10.0% and 20.0%, respectively, from the initial minimum power generation capacity at the time of delivery. If a solar module is defective during the relevant warranty period, we will either repair or replace the solar module. As we continue to increase our sales to the major export markets, we may be exposed to increased warranty claims. In May 2011,we engaged PowerGuard Specialty Insurance Services, or PowerGuard, a firm specializing in unique insurance and risk management solutions for the wind and solar energy industries, to provide insurance coverage for the product warranty services of our solar modules worldwide effective from May 1, 2011. We may renew the insurance policy upon its expiration in May 2012. The policy offers back-to-back coverage through a maximum of five-year limited product defects warranty, as well as a 10-year and 25-year warranty against declines of more than 10.0% and 20.0%, respectively, from the initial minimum power generation capacity at the time of delivery. If we experience a significant increase in warranty claims, we may incur significant repair and replacement costs associated with such claims to the extent that these are not covered by our insurance policies. In addition, product defects could cause significant damage to our market reputation and reduce our product sales and market share, and our failure to maintain the consistency and quality throughout our production process could result in substandard quality or performance of our products. If we deliver our products with defects, or if there is a perception that our products are of substandard quality, we may incur substantially increased costs associated with returns or replacements of our products, our credibility and market reputation could be harmed and our sales and market share may be adversely affected. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operations. Historically, most of our revenue was denominated in Renminbi. Since 2009, however, as we expanded our product line downstream and commenced manufacturing solar modules, export sales have represented an increasingly significant proportion of our total sales. Our export sales represented 42.8%, 65.6% and 82.6% of our total sales for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. As we increase our sales to international customers, we expect the portion of our sales denominated in foreign currencies, particularly, U.S. dollars and Euros to our total revenue will increase. In addition, we make advance payments in U.S. dollars to overseas silicon raw material suppliers, and from time to time, we may incur foreign exchange losses if we request our suppliers to return such advance payments due to changes in our business plans. These could expose us to significant risks resulting from fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly, among Renminbi, the U.S. dollars and Euros. Furthermore, we have outstanding debt obligations, and may continue to incur debts from time to time, denominated and repayable in foreign currencies. We incurred foreign exchange losses of approximately RMB2.2 million, RMB10.1 million and RMB139.0 million (US$22.1 million), respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations and may incur net foreign currency losses in the future. 28 Our consolidated financial statements are expressed in Renminbi and the functional currency of our principal operating subsidiaries, Jiangxi Jinko and Zhejiang Jinko, is also Renminbi. The value of your investment in our ADSs will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. In addition, to the extent we hold assets denominated in U.S. dollars, any appreciation of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could result in a change to our consolidated statement of operations and a reduction in the value of our U.S. dollar denominated consolidated assets. On the other hand, if we decide to convert our Renminbi amounts into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares and ADSs or for other business purposes, including foreign debt service, a decline in the value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of the Renminbi we convert. In addition, a depreciation of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of our financial results and the dividends we may pay in the future, if any, all of which may have a material adverse effect on the price of our ADSs. Renminbi is not a freely convertible currency. The PRC government may take actions that could cause future exchange rates to vary significantly from current or historical exchange rates. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, has been based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China, or the PBOC. On July 21, 2005, in a reversal of a long-standing policy, the PRC government announced that the Renminbi would be permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of specified foreign currencies. Since this announcement, the value of the Renminbi has been fluctuating. This change in policy caused the Renminbi to appreciate approximately 21.5% against the U.S. dollar over the following three years. Since reaching a high against the U.S. dollar in July 2008, this appreciation halted and the Renminbi traded within a narrow band against the U.S. dollar until June 2010, remaining within 1% of its July 2008 high but never exceeding it. In June 2010, the PBOC announced that the PRC government would reform the Renminbi exchange rate regime and increase the flexibility of the exchange rate. In April 2012, the PRC government took a milestone step in turning the Renminbi into a global currency by doubling the size of its trading band against the dollar, pushing through a crucial reform that further liberalizes its financial markets. The PBOC allows the Renminbi to rise or fall 1% from a mid-point every day, effective April 16, 2012, compared with its previous 0.5% limit. While international reactions to the Renminbi revaluation have generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible foreign currency policy, which could result in further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. There can be no assurance that any future movements in the exchange rate of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies will not adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition (including our ability to pay dividends). Conversely, significant depreciation in the Renminbi against major foreign currencies may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and share price because our ADSs are expected to be quoted in U.S. dollars, whereas most of our revenues, costs and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. Although we have entered into a number of foreign-exchange forward contracts with local banks to manage our risks associated with foreign exchange rates fluctuations, we cannot assure you that our hedging efforts will be effective. Our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 29 Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our results of operations and prospects. We have only been in existence since June 2006 and have limited operating history in the manufacturing and sales of our silicon wafer, solar cell and solar module products. We commenced processing recoverable silicon materials in June 2006, and manufacturing silicon ingots and silicon wafers in 2007 and 2008, respectively. We commenced producing solar cells in July 2009 following our acquisition of Zhejiang Jinko, which has manufactured solar cells since June 2007, and we commenced producing solar modules in August 2009. In addition, we have recently commenced our solar power project development and solar system integration service business. Although our revenues experienced significant growth in the past, we cannot assure you that our revenues will increase at previous rates or at all, or that we will be able to operate profitably in future periods. Our limited operating history makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and therefore, past revenue growth experienced by us should not be taken as indicative of the rate of revenue growth, if any, that can be expected in the future. We believe that period to period comparisons of our operating results and our results for any period should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our operations are subject to natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, operating hazards, environmental incidents and labor disputes. We may experience earthquakes, floods, mudslides, snowstorms, typhoon, power outages, labor disputes or similar events beyond our control that would affect our operations. Our manufacturing processes involve the use of hazardous equipment, such as furnaces, squaring machines and wire saws, and we also use, store and generate volatile and otherwise dangerous chemicals and wastes during our manufacturing processes, which are potentially destructive and dangerous if not properly handled or in the event of uncontrollable or catastrophic circumstances, including operating hazards, fires and explosions, natural disasters, adverse weather conditions and major equipment failures, for which we cannot obtain insurance at a reasonable cost or at all. In addition, our silicon wafer and solar module production and storage facilities are located in close proximity to one another in the Shangrao Economic Development Zone in Jiangxi Province, and our solar cell production and storage facilities are located in close proximity to one another in Haining, Zhejiang Province. The occurrence of any natural disaster, unanticipated catastrophic event or unexpected accident in either of the two locations could result in production curtailments, shutdowns or periods of reduced production, which could significantly disrupt our business operations, cause us to incur additional costs and affect our ability to deliver our products to our customers as scheduled, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, such events could result in severe damage to property, personal injuries, fatalities, regulatory enforcement proceedings or in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for large amounts of damages, which in turn could lead to significant liabilities. We also experienced production disruptions due to power blackouts at our facilities in the Shangrao City resulting from severe winter weather conditions in early 2008. In addition, our Haining facility suspended operation from September 17, 2011 to October 9, 2011 due to an environmental incident. See “— Compliance with environmental, safe production and construction regulations can be costly, while non-compliance with such regulations may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages, fines and suspension of our business operations.” In May 2008, Sichuan Province in southwest China experienced a severe earthquake. Although the Sichuan Province earthquake did not materially affect our production capacity and operations, other occurrences of natural disasters, as well as accidents and incidents of adverse weather in or around Shangrao and Haining in the future may result in significant property damage, electricity shortages, disruption of our operations, work stoppages, civil unrest, personal injuries and, in severe cases, fatalities. Such incidents may result in damage to our reputation or cause us to lose all or a portion of our production capacity, and future revenues anticipated to be derived from the relevant facilities. 30 As our founders collectively hold a controlling interest in us, they have significant influence over our management and their interests may not be aligned with our interests or the interests of our other shareholders. As of the date of this annual report, our founders, Xiande Li who is our chairman, Kangping Chen who is our chief executive officer, and Xianhua Li who is our vice president, beneficially own approximately 24.8%, 14.9% and 9.9%, respectively, of our outstanding ordinary shares. As of the date of this annual report, an aggregate of approximately 49.6% of our outstanding ordinary shares are currently held by our founders. If the founders act collectively, they will have substantial control over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors, dividend policy and other significant corporate actions. They may take actions that are not in the best interest of our company or our securities holders. For example, this concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. On the other hand, if the founders are in favor of any of these actions, these actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders, including you and those who invest in ADSs. In addition, under our current articles of association, the quorum required for the general meeting of our shareholders is two shareholders entitled to vote and present in person or by proxy or, if the shareholder is a corporation, by its duly authorized representative representing not less than one-third in nominal value of our total issued voting shares. As such, a shareholders resolution may be passed at our shareholders meetings with the presence of our founders only and without the presence of any of our other shareholders, which may not represent the interests of our other shareholders, including holders of ADSs. We have limited insurance coverage and may incur losses resulting from product liability claims, business interruption or natural disasters. We are exposed to risks associated with product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in property damage or personal injury. Since our products are ultimately incorporated into electricity generating systems, it is possible that users could be injured or killed by devices that use our products, whether as a result of product malfunctions, defects, improper installations or other causes. Due to our limited operating history, we are unable to predict whether product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or to predict the impact of any resulting adverse publicity on our business. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages and require us to make significant payments. We carry limited product liability insurance and may not have adequate resources to satisfy a judgment in the event of a successful claim against us. In addition, we do not carry any business interruption insurance. As the insurance industry in China is still in its early stage of development, even if we decide to take out business interruption coverage, such insurance available in China offers limited coverage compared with that offered in many other countries. Any business interruption or natural disaster could result in substantial losses and diversion of our resources and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 31 The grant of employee share options and other share-based compensation could adversely affect our net income. We adopted the 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan on July 10, 2009, which was subsequently amended and restated, and share options with respect to 8,966,912 ordinary shares have been granted to our directors, officers and employees pursuant to such plan. As of the date of this annual report, there are 8,540,384 ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding options granted under our long-term incentive plan. U.S. GAAP requires us to recognize share-based compensation as compensation expense in the consolidated statement of operations based on the fair value of equity awards on the date of the grant, with the compensation expense recognized over the period in which the recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the equity award. If we grant more share options to attract and retain key personnel, the expenses associated with share-based compensation may adversely affect our net income. However, if we do not grant share options or reduce the number of share options that we grant, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. Our lack of sufficient patent protection in and outside of China may undermine our competitive position and subject us to intellectual property disputes with third parties, both of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have developed various production process related know-how and technologies in the production of our products. Such know-how and technologies play a critical role in our quality assurance and cost reduction. In addition, we have implemented a number of research and development programs with a view to developing techniques and processes that will improve production efficiency and product quality. Our intellectual property and proprietary rights arising out of these research and development programs will be crucial in maintaining our competitive edge in the solar power industry. As of the date of this annual report, we had 19 patents and 16 pending patent applications in China. We plan to continue to seek to protect our intellectual property and proprietary knowledge by applying for patents for them. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining patents in China in a timely manner or at all. Moreover, even if we are successful, China currently affords less protection to a company's intellectual property than some other countries, including the United States. We also use contractual arrangements with employees and trade secret protections to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Nevertheless, contractual arrangements afford only limited protection and the actions we may take to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights may not be adequate. In addition, others may obtain knowledge of our know-how and technologies through independent development. Our failure to protect our production process, related know-how and technologies and/or our intellectual property and proprietary rights may undermine our competitive position. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary technologies or other intellectual property and proprietary rights. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Litigation, which can be costly and divert management attention and other resources away from our business, may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. We cannot assure you that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in our favor. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property and proprietary rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. 32 We may be exposed to intellectual property infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to pay significant damage awards. Our success depends on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how and to manufacture and sell our recovered silicon materials, silicon ingots, silicon wafers, solar cells and solar modules without infringing the intellectual property or other rights of third parties. We may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to solar power technology patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analyses and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings, trademark disputes and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert our resources and the attention of our technical and management personnel. An adverse ruling in any such litigation or proceedings could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, to pay ongoing royalties, or to redesign our products or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our products or the use of our technologies. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such litigation. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and key technical personnel, as well as our ability to maintain a skilled labor force. Our business may be materially and adversely affected if we lose their services. Our success depends on the continued services of our executive officers and key personnel, in particular Mr. Xiande Li, Mr. Kangping Chen and Mr. Xianhua Li, who are our founders. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our executive officers and key personnel. If one or more of our executive officers and key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all. As a result, our business may be severely disrupted and we may have to incur additional expenses in order to recruit and retain new personnel. In addition, if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers. Each of our executive officers and key personnel has entered into an employment agreement with us that contains confidentiality and non-competition provisions. However, if any dispute arises between our executive officers or key personnel and us, we cannot assure you, in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system, that these agreements could be enforced in China where most of our executive officers and key personnel reside and hold most of their assets. See “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us” in this annual report. Furthermore, recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly experienced engineers and technicians familiar with our products and manufacturing processes, is vital to maintain the quality of our products and improve our production methods. There is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain qualified technical personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, key technical personnel and our executive officers, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Compliance with environmental, safe production and construction regulations can be costly, while non-compliance with such regulations may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages, fines and suspension of our business operations. We are required to comply with all PRC national and local environmental protection regulations. Regulations on emission trading and pollution permits in Zhejiang Province allow entities to increase their annual pollution discharge limit by purchasing emissions trading credits. Entities that purchase emission credits can increase their annual discharge limit by registering the credits with the relevant environmental authorities and amending their pollution permits or obtaining new ones. Although we have entered into several emissions trading contracts to purchase credits to increase our annual discharge limit, we have not registered these credits as required under a regulation that became effective on October 9, 2010. As a result, we may have exceeded the relevant annual discharge limit permitted under our existing pollution permits. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to penalties for exceeding our discharge limit, including fines imposed by the local environmental authority of up to RMB50,000. 33 We use, store and generate volatile and otherwise dangerous chemicals and wastes during our manufacturing processes, and are subject to a variety of government regulations related to the use, storage and disposal of such hazardous chemicals and waste. In accordance with the requirements of the revised Regulation on the Safety Management of Hazardous Chemicals, which became effective on December 1, 2011, we are required to conduct the safety evaluation on our storage instruments related to our use of hazardous chemicals and file the safety evaluation report with the competent safety supervision and administration authorities every three years. Moreover, we also need to timely file a report with the competent safety supervision and administration authorities and public security agencies concerning the actual storage situation of our hyper-toxic chemicals and other hazardous chemicals that constitute major of hazard sources. We have not conducted the safety evaluation or filed safety evaluation reports with respect to certain of our storage instruments in compliance with the revised Regulation on the Safety Management of Hazardous Chemicals and we cannot assure you that we will be able to file the safety evaluation reports on time. Failure to make such filing on time may subject us to a fine of up to RMB100,000. Moreover, we are required to obtain construction permits before commencing constructing production facilities. We are also required to obtain the approvals from PRC environmental protection authorities before commencing commercial operations of our manufacturing facilities. We commenced construction of a portion of our solar cell and solar module production facilities prior to obtaining the construction permits and commenced operations of certain of our production facilities prior to obtaining the environmental approvals for commencing commercial operation and completing the required safety evaluation procedure. Although we have subsequently obtained all required environmental approvals covering all of our existing production capacity except a portion of our solar cell and solar module production capacity, we cannot assure you that we will not be penalized by the relevant government authorities for any prior non-compliance with the PRC environmental protection, safe production and construction regulations. As of the date of this annual report, we are still in the process of obtaining the requisite environmental approval for the portion of our solar cell and solar module production capacity and construction permits for a portion of our solar cell and solar module production facilities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such approval in a timely manner or at all. Failure to obtain such approval and permits may subject us to fines or disrupt our operations and construction, which may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In late August 2011, our Haining facility experienced a suspected leakage of fluoride into a nearby small water channel due to extreme and unforeseen weather conditions. On September 15, 2011, residents of Hongxiao Village in proximity to the Haining facility gathered to protest the discharge. The Haining facility suspended production on September 17, 2011. We also took steps recommended by an environmental engineering firms licensed by the PRC government (“Licensed Engineers”). On September 28, 2011, a committee of experts (the “Experts Committee”) established by the Haining government approved a set of recommendations developed by the Licensed Engineers with our assistance and the Haining government to be implemented by us. On October 6, 2011, the Experts Committee, the Environmental Bureau of the Haining government and representatives of Hongxiao Village reviewed the steps taken by us based on the recommendations of the Experts Committee and provided their comments to JinkoSolar’s management. On October 9, 2011, the Experts Committee notified us that the Experts Committee was satisfied with the steps taken by us and we resumed production at the Haining facility. Although we will try to take measures to prevent similar incidents from occurring again in the future, we cannot assure that our operations will not be disrupted by similar or other environmental incidents. In addition, the PRC government may issue more stringent environmental protection, safe production and construction regulations in the future and the costs of compliance with new regulations could be substantial. If we fail to comply with the future environmental, safe production and construction laws and regulations, we may be required to pay fines, suspend construction or production, or cease operations. Moreover, any failure by us to control the use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, dangerous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or the suspension of our business operations. 34 Risks Related to Doing Business in China The audit report included in this 20-F annual report is prepared by an auditor who is not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Auditors of companies that are registered with the SEC and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the “PCAOB”) and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in the Peoples’ Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating audits and quality control procedures of any auditors operating in China, including our auditors. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. The approval of the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, for or in connection with our corporate restructuring in 2007 and 2008 may be subject to revocation, which will have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and trading price of our ADSs. On August 8, 2006, six PRC governmental and regulatory agencies, including the Ministry of Commerce of the People’s Republic of China, or the MOFCOM and the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, promulgated a rule entitled "Provisions Regarding Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors," or Circular 10, which became effective on September 8, 2006 and was amended in June 2009. Article 11 of Circular 10 requires PRC domestic enterprises or domestic natural persons to obtain the prior approval of MOFCOM when an offshore company established or controlled by them proposes to merge with or acquire a PRC domestic company with which such enterprises or persons have a connected relationship. 35 We undertook a restructuring in 2007, or the 2007 Restructuring, and our founders and JinkoSolar Technology Limited, previously Paker Technology Limited, or JinkoSolar Technology, obtained the approval of Jiangxi MOFCOM, for the acquisition of certain equity interest in Jiangxi Desun and the pledge by our founders of their equity interest in Jiangxi Desun to Jinko Solar Technology, or the 2007 acquisition and pledge. However, because our founders are PRC natural persons and they controlled both JinkoSolar Technology and Jiangxi Desun, the 2007 acquisition and pledge would be subject to Article 11 of Circular 10 and therefore subject to approval by MOFCOM at the central government level. To remedy this past non-compliance, we undertook another corporate restructuring in 2008, or the 2008 Restructuring, under which the share pledge was terminated on July 28, 2008 and JinkoSolar Technology transferred all of its equity interest in Jiangxi Desun to Long Faith Creation Limited, or Long Faith, an unrelated Hong Kong company, on July 31, 2008. In addition, on November 11, 2008, we received written confirmation from Jiangxi MOFCOM in its reply to our inquiry that there had been no modification to the former approvals for the 2007 acquisition and pledge and JinkoSolar Technology's transfer of its equity interest in Jiangxi Desun to Long Faith, and we might continue to rely on those approvals for further transactions. Nevertheless, we cannot assure you that MOFCOM will not revoke such approval and subject us to regulatory actions, penalties or other sanctions because of such past non-compliance. If the approval of Jiangxi MOFCOM for the 2007 acquisition and pledge were revoked and we were not able to obtain MOFCOM's retrospective approval for the 2007 acquisition and pledge, Jiangxi Desun may be required to return the tax benefits to which only a foreign-invested enterprise was entitled and which were recognized by us during the period from April 10, 2007 to December 31, 2007, and the profit distribution to JinkoSolar Technology in December 2008 may be required to be unwound. Under an indemnification letter issued by our founders to us, our founders have agreed to indemnify us for any monetary losses we may incur as a result of any violation of Circular 10 in connection with the restructuring we undertook in 2007. We cannot assure you, however, that this indemnification letter will be enforceable under the PRC law, our founders will have sufficient resources to fully indemnify us for such losses, or that we will not otherwise suffer damages to our business and reputation as a result of any sanctions for such non-compliance. Meanwhile, given the uncertainty with respect to what constitutes a merger with or acquisition of PRC domestic enterprise and what constitutes circumvention of its approval requirements under the Circular 10, we can not assure you that the 2008 Restructuring is in all respects compliance with Circular 10. If MOFCOM subsequently determines that its approval of the 2008 Restructuring was required, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions by MOFCOM or other PRC regulatory agencies. Such actions may include compelling us to terminate the contracts between Jiangxi Desun and us, the limitation of our operating privileges in China, the imposition of fines and penalties on our operations in China, restrictions or prohibition on the payment or remittance of dividends by Jiangxi Jinko or others that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Our business is based in China and a portion of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the level of government involvement; • the level of development; • the growth rate; • the control of foreign exchange; and • the allocation of resources. 36 While the PRC economy has grown significantly in the past 30 years, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China's economic growth through allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. We cannot predict whether changes in China's political, economic and social conditions, laws, regulations and policies will have any material adverse effect on our current or future business, financial conditions and results of operations. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. We are incorporated in Cayman Islands and are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign owned companies. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative authorities and courts have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult than in more developed legal systems to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy. These uncertainties may impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into with our business partners, clients and suppliers. In addition, such uncertainties, including the inability to enforce our contracts, could materially adversely affect our business and operations. Furthermore, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of national laws by local regulations. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors, including you. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 37 PRC regulations relating to overseas investment by PRC residents may restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activities and adversely affect the implementation of our strategy as well as our business and prospects. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued a public notice in October 2005, or the SAFE notice, and subsequently issued the operating rules on the SAFE notice in May 2011, or SAFE Circular 19, requiring PRC residents, including both legal persons and natural persons, to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside China, referred to as an "offshore special purpose company," for the purpose of acquiring any assets of or equity interest in PRC companies and raising funds from overseas. In addition, any PRC resident that is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend its SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any asset located in China. If any PRC shareholder of an offshore special purpose company fails to make the required SAFE registration and amendment, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore special purpose company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the offshore special purpose company. Moreover, failure to comply with the SAFE registration and amendment requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Our current beneficial owners who are PRC residents have registered with the local SAFE branch as required under the SAFE notice. However, they have not yet completed the procedure for amending their registration with regard to the change in our shareholding structure, our corporate structure or the offshore trust arrangement. The failure of these beneficial owners to amend their SAFE registrations in a timely manner pursuant to the SAFE notice and SAFE Circular 19 or the failure of future beneficial owners of our company who are PRC residents to comply with the registration procedures set forth in the SAFE notice and SAFE Circular 19 may subject such beneficial owners and our PRC subsidiaries to fines and legal sanctions and may also result in restrictions on our PRC subsidiaries' ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. Our China-sourced income is subject to PRC withholding tax under the new Corporate e Income Tax Law of the PRC, and we may be subject to PRC corporate income tax at the rate of 25% when more detailed rules or precedents are promulgated. We are a Cayman Islands holding company with substantially all of our operations conducted through our operating subsidiaries in China. Under the new Corporate Income Tax Law, or the CIT Law, of the PRC and its detailed implementation regulations, or the DIRs, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008, China-sourced passive income of non-PRC resident enterprises, such as dividends paid by a PRC subsidiary to its overseas parent, is generally subject to a 10% withholding tax. Under an arrangement between China and Hong Kong, such dividend withholding tax rate is reduced to 5% if the beneficial owner of the dividends is a Hong Kong resident enterprise which directly owns at least 25% of the PRC company distributing the dividends and has owned such equity for at least 12 consecutive months before receiving such dividends. As JinkoSolar Technology is a Hong Kong company and owns 100% of the equity interest in Jiangxi Jinko and 25% of the equity interest in Zhejiang Jinko directly for more than 12 consecutive months to the date, any dividends paid by Jiangxi Jinko and Zhejiang Jinko to JinkoSolar Technology will be entitled to a withholding tax at the reduced rate of 5% after obtaining approval from competent PRC tax authority, provided that JinkoSolar Technology is deemed as the beneficial owner of such dividends and that JinkoSolar Technology is not deemed to be a PRC tax resident enterprise as described below. However, according to the Circular of the State Administration of Taxation on How to Understand and Identify "Beneficial Owner" under Tax Treaties, effective on October 27, 2009, an applicant for treaty benefits, including the benefits under the arrangement between China and Hong Kong on dividend withholding tax, that does not carry out substantial business activities or is an agent or a conduit company may not be deemed as a "beneficial owner" of the PRC subsidiary and therefore, may not enjoy such treaty benefits. If JinkoSolar Technology is determined to be ineligible for such treaty benefits, any dividends paid by Jiangxi Jinko and Zhejiang Jinko to JinkoSolar Technology will be subject to the PRC withholding tax rates at 10%. 38 The CIT Law, however, also provides that enterprises established outside China whose "de facto management bodies" are located in China are considered "tax resident enterprises" and will generally be subject to the uniform 25% corporate income tax rate as to their global income. Under the implementation regulations, "de facto management bodies" is defined as the bodies that have, in substance, overall management control over such aspects as the production and business, personnel, accounts and properties of an enterprise. On April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated a circular that sets out procedures and specific criteria for determining whether "de facto management bodies" for overseas incorporated, domestically controlled enterprises are located in China. However, as this circular only applies to enterprises incorporated under laws of foreign jurisdictions that are controlled by PRC enterprises or groups of PRC enterprises, it remains unclear how the tax authorities will determine the location of "de facto management bodies" for overseas incorporated enterprises that are controlled by individual PRC residents such as our company and JinkoSolar Technology. Therefore, although a substantial majority of the members of our management team as well as the management team of JinkoSolar Technology are located in China, it remains unclear whether the PRC tax authorities would require or permit our company or JinkoSolar Technology to be recognized as PRC tax resident enterprises. If our company and JinkoSolar Technology are considered PRC tax resident enterprises for PRC corporate income tax purposes, any dividends distributed from Jiangxi Jinko and Zhejiang Jinko to JinkoSolar Technology and ultimately to our company, could be exempt from the PRC withholding tax; however, our company and JinkoSolar Technology will be subject to the uniform 25% corporate income tax rate as to our global income. Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gains on the sale of our shares or ADSs may become subject to PRC corporate income tax liabilities. The implementation regulations of the CIT Law provide that (i) if the enterprise that distributes dividends is domiciled in China, or (ii) if gains are realized from transferring equity interests of enterprises domiciled in China, then such dividends or capital gains are treated as China-sourced income The CIT Law and the related implementation regulations have been in effect for four years. However, currently, there are still no detailed rules or precedents governing the procedures and specific criteria for determining "domicile," which are applicable to our company or JinkoSolar Technology. As such, it is not clear how "domicile" will be interpreted under the CIT Law. It may be interpreted as the jurisdiction where the enterprise is incorporated or where the enterprise is a tax resident. Therefore, if our company and JinkoSolar Technology are considered PRC tax resident enterprises for tax purposes, any dividends we pay to our overseas shareholders or ADS holders, as well as any gains realized by such shareholders or ADSs holders from the transfer of our shares or ADSs, may be viewed as China-sourced income and, as a consequence, be subject to PRC corporate income tax at 10% or a lower treaty rate. If the dividends we pay to our overseas shareholders or ADS holders or gains realized by such shareholders or ADS holders from the transfer of our shares or ADSs are subject to PRC corporate income tax, we would be required to withhold taxes on such dividends, and our overseas shareholders or ADS holders would be required to declare taxes on such gains to PRC tax authorities. In such case, the value of your investment in our shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, any overseas shareholders or ADS holders who fail to declare such taxes to PRC tax authorities may be ordered to make tax declaration within a specified time limit and be subject to fines or penalties. As a foreign company, our acquisitions of PRC companies may take longer and be subject to higher level of scrutiny by the PRC government, which may delay or prevent any intended acquisition. Circular 10, which became effective on September 8, 2006 and was amended in June 2009, established additional procedures and requirements including the requirements that in certain instances foreign investors obtain MOFCOM's approval when they acquire equity or assets of a PRC domestic enterprise. In the future, we may want to grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses, although we do not have plans to do so at this time. Complying with the Circular 10 to complete these transactions could be more time-consuming and costly, and could result in a more extensive evaluation by the PRC government and its increased control over the terms of the transaction, and any required approval processes may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. 39 Our failure to make payments of statutory social welfare and housing funds to our employees could adversely and materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. According to the relevant PRC laws and regulations, we are required to pay certain statutory social security benefits, including medical care, injury insurance, unemployment insurance, maternity insurance and pension benefits, and housing funds, for our employees. Our failure to comply with these requirements may subject us to monetary penalties imposed by the relevant PRC authorities and proceedings initiated by our employees, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Based on the prevailing local practice in Jiangxi Province resulting from the discrepancy between national laws and their implementation by local governments, Jiangxi Jinko did not pay statutory social security benefits, including medical care, injury insurance, unemployment insurance, maternity insurance and pension benefits, and housing funds, for all of its employees. For similar reasons, Zhejiang Jinko did not pay statutory social security benefits and housing funds in Zhejiang Province for all of its employees. We estimate the aggregate amount of unpaid social security benefits and housing funds to be RMB40.1 million, RMB56.6 million and RMB118.3 million (US$18.8 million), respectively, as of December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011. We may be required by the relevant PRC authorities to pay these statutory social security benefits and housing funds within a designated time period. In addition, an employee is entitled to seek compensation by resorting to labor arbitration at the labor arbitration center or filing a labor complaint with the labor administration bureau within a designated time period. We have made a certain provisions for such unpaid social security benefits and housing funds of our former and current PRC subsidiaries. However, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to late charges and penalties for such delinquency. Late charges, penalties or legal or administrative proceedings to which we may be subject could materially and adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. All employee participants in the 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan who are domestic individual participants may be required to register with SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional option plans for our directors and employees under PRC law. On March 28, 2007, SAFE issued the Operating Procedures on Administration of Foreign Exchange regarding Domestic Individuals' Participating in Employee Stock Ownership Plan and Stock Option Plan of Overseas Listed Companies, or the Stock Option Rule. For any plans so covered and adopted by an overseas listed company, the Stock Option Rule required the domestic individual participants to register with SAFE or its local branch within 10 days after the beginning of each quarter. In addition, the Stock Option Rule also required the domestic individual participants to make necessary applications for foreign exchange purchase quota, open special bank account and make necessary filings with SAFE or its local branch before they exercise their stock options. 40 On February 15, 2012, SAFE released the Notice on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals’ Participating in Equity Incentive Plan of Overseas Listed Companies, or SAFE Notice 7, which superseded the Stock Option Rule. According to Safe Notice 7, domestic individual participants include directors, supervisors, senior management personnel and other employees who are PRC citizens (which includes citizens of Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan) orforeign individuals who reside in the PRC for 12 months consecutively. In addition, according to SAFE Notice 7, domestic individual participants must complete the registration with SAFE or its local branch within three days rather than 10 days from the beginning of each quarter. Failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and the participants of the 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan who are domestic individual participants to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from further granting options under the 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan to our employees, which could adversely affect our business operations. It may be difficult to effect service of process on, or to enforce any judgments obtained outside the PRC against, us, our Directors, or senior management members who live inside the PRC. Substantially all of our existing directors and senior management members reside in the PRC and substantially all of our assets and the assets of such person are located in the PRC. Accordingly, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process on any of these persons or to enforce judgments obtained outside of the PRC against us or any of these persons, as the PRC does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments awarded by courts in many developed countries, including the Cayman Islands, the United States and the United Kingdom. Therefore, the recognition and enforcement in the PRC of judgments of a court in any of these jurisdictions in relation to any matter not subject to a binding arbitration provision may be difficult or even impossible. Higher labor costs and inflation in China may adversely affect our business and our profitability. Labor costs in China have also risen in recent years as a result of the enactment of new labor laws and social development. In addition, inflation in China has increased. According to the National Bureau of Statistics of China, consumer price inflation in China was -0.7%, 3.3% and 5.4% in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Because we purchase raw materials from suppliers in China, higher labor cost and inflation in China increases the costs of labor and raw materials we must purchase for manufacturing. Recently released data indicated that China's inflation rates will continue to rise in 2012. As we expect our production staff to increase and our manufacturing operations to become more labor intensive when we commence silicon wafer and solar module production, rising labor costs may increase our operating costs and partially erode the cost advantage of our China-based operations and therefore negatively impact our profitability. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of influenza A, or H1N1, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or other epidemic outbreak. In April 2009, an outbreak of influenza A caused by the H1N1 virus occurred in Mexico and the United States, and spread into a number of countries rapidly. There have also been reports of outbreaks of a highly pathogenic avian flu, caused by the H1N1 virus, in certain regions of Asia and Europe. In past few years, there were reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases. An outbreak of avian flu in the human population could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, particularly in Asia. Additionally, any recurrence of SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, similar to the occurrence in 2003 which affected China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Vietnam and certain other countries, would also have similar adverse effects. These outbreaks of contagious diseases and other adverse public health developments in China would have a material adverse effect on our business operations. These could include our ability to travel or ship our products outside China as well as temporary closure of our manufacturing facilities. Such closures or travel or shipment restrictions would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of avian flu, SARS or any other epidemic. 41 Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs has been volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The closing prices of our ADSs ranged from US$4.55 to US$41.75 per ADS for the year ended December 31, 2011. The price of our ADSs may continue to fluctuate in response to factors including the following: •announcements of new products by us or our competitors; •technological breakthroughs in the solar and other renewable power industries; •reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives for the solar industry; •news regarding any gain or loss of customers by us; •news regarding recruitment or loss of key personnel by us or our competitors; •announcements of competitive developments, acquisitions or strategic alliances in our industry; •changes in the general condition of the global economy and credit markets; •general market conditions or other developments affecting us or our industry; •the operating and stock price performance of other companies, other industries and other events or factors beyond our control; •regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; •announcements regarding patent litigation or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; •announcements of studies and reports relating to the conversion efficiencies of our products or those of our competitors; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations; •changes in financial projections or estimates about our financial or operational performance by securities research analysts; •changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other solar power technology companies; •release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; •sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs; and •commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation. 42 Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our ADSs will trade. We cannot give any assurance that these factors will not occur in the future again. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of their stock, many companies have been the subject of securities class action litigation. See “—We are exposed to various risks related to legal or administrative proceedings or claims that could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and reputation, and may cause loss of business.” If we become involved in similar securities class action litigation in the future, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management's attention and resources and could harm our stock price, business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to pay any dividends on our ordinary shares and ADSs. Under Cayman Islands law, we may only pay dividends out of our profits or our share premium account subject to our ability to service our debts as they fall due in the ordinary course of our business. Our ability to pay dividends will therefore depend on our ability to generate sufficient profits. We cannot give any assurance that we will declare dividends of any amounts, at any rate or at all in the future. We have not paid any dividends in the past. Future dividends, if any, will be paid at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our future operations and earnings, capital expenditure requirements, general financial conditions, legal and contractual restrictions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. See "— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our principal operating subsidiaries, Jiangxi Jinko and Zhejiang Jinko, and limitations on their ability to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations" above for additional legal restrictions on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us. Future sales or issuances, or perceived future sales or issuances, of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares or ADSs could adversely affect the price of our ADSs. If our existing shareholders sell, or are perceived as intending to sell, substantial amounts of our ordinary shares or ADSs, including those issued upon the exercise of our outstanding share options, the market price of our ADSs could fall. Such sales, or perceived potential sales, by our existing shareholders might make it more difficult for us to issue new equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and place we deem appropriate. In addition, we may issue additional ADSs or ordinary shares for future acquisitions or other purposes. If we issue additional ADSs or ordinary shares, your ownership interests in our company would be diluted and this in turn could have a material adverse effect on the price of our ADSs. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. As a holder of ADSs, you will not be treated as one of our shareholders and you will not have shareholder rights. Instead, the depositary will be treated as the holder of the shares underlying your ADSs. However, you may exercise some of the shareholders' rights through the depositary, and you will have the right to withdraw the shares underlying your ADSs from the deposit facility. 43 Holders of ADSs may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our current articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is ten days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders' meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We plan to make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholder meeting. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or government body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, you may have less protection for your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, Companies Law of the Cayman Islands and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands have a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before federal courts of the United States. 44 As we are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our consolidated assets are located outside of the United States and substantially all of our current operations are conducted in China, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or China would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents of the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside the United States. In addition, it is uncertain whether the Cayman Islands or PRC courts would entertain original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or in China against us or our officers and directors predicated on the federal securities laws of the United States. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States although the courts of the Cayman Islands would recognize as a valid judgment, a final and conclusive judgment in personam obtained in a federal or state court of the United States under which a sum of money is payable, other than a sum payable in respect of multiple damages, taxes or other charges of a like nature or in respect of a fine or other penalty and would give a judgment based thereon; provided that (i) such court had proper jurisdiction over the parties subject to such judgment; (ii) such court did not contravene the rules of natural justice of the Cayman Islands; (iii) such judgment was not obtained by fraud; (iv) the enforcement of the judgment would not be contrary to the public policy of the Cayman Islands; (v) no new admissible evidence relevant to the action is submitted prior to the rendering of the judgment by the courts of the Cayman Islands; and (vi) there is due compliance with the correct procedures under the laws of the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, shareholders of a Cayman Islands company may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a company incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. For example, contrary to the general practice in most corporations incorporated in the United States, Cayman Islands incorporated companies may not generally require that shareholders approve sales of all or substantially all of a company's assets. The limitations described above will also apply to the depositary who is treated as the holder of the shares underlying your ADSs. Our current articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could prevent a change in control even if such takeover is beneficial to our shareholders. Our current articles of association contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our company that could be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for our ADSs. These provisions might also discourage a potential acquisition proposal or tender offer, even if the acquisition proposal or tender offer is at a price above the then current market price of our ADSs. These provisions provide that our board of directors has authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADSs or otherwise. Our board of directors may decide to issue such preferred shares quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make the removal of our management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue such preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. 45 As a company incorporated in the Cayman Islands, we may adopt certain home country practices in relation to corporate governance matters. These practices may afford less protection to shareholders than they would enjoy if we complied fully with the NYSE corporate governance listing standards. As a non-U.S. company with shares listed on the NYSE, we are subject to the NYSE corporate governance listing standards. However, in reliance on Section 303A.11 of the NYSE Listed Company Manual, which permits a foreign private issuer to follow the corporate governance practices of its home country, we have adopted certain corporate governance practices that may differ significantly from the NYSE corporate governance listing standards. For example, we may include non-independent directors as members of our compensation committee and nominating and corporate governance committee, and our independent directors may not hold regularly scheduled meetings at which only independent directors are present. Such home country practice differs from the NYSE corporate governance listing standards, because there are no specific provisions under the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands imposing such requirements. Accordingly, executive directors, who may also be our major shareholders or representatives of our major shareholders, may have greater power to make or influence major decisions than they would if we complied with all the NYSE corporate governance listing standards. While we may adopt certain practices that are in compliance with the laws of the Cayman Islands, such practices may differ from more stringent requirements imposed by the NYSE rules and as such, our shareholders may be afforded less protection under Cayman Islands law than they would under the NYSE rules applicable to U.S. domestic issuers. See "Item 16G. Corporate Governance." We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders of our ADSs or shares. Based on the composition of our assets and income, we believe that we were not a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes with respect to our 2011 taxable year and we do not intend or anticipate becoming a PFIC for 2012 or any future taxable year. However, we must make a separate determination each taxable year as to whether we are a PFIC (after the close of each taxable year). Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for our next taxable year ending December 31, 2012 or any future taxable year. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during the taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. The value of our assets for purposes of the PFIC asset test will generally be determined based on the market price of our ADSs and shares, which may fluctuate from time to time. If we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder (as defined in "Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Taxation — Passive Foreign Investment Company") holds an ADS or a share, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. Holder. See "Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Taxation — Passive Foreign Investment Company." 