D. Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the countries and the industry in which we operate and the nature of our business in general. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. In particular, if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay a dividend, the trading price of our shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. INDUSTRY-SPECIFIC RISK FACTORS The recent global economic downturn may negatively impact our business. Oil has been one of the world’s primary energy sources for a number of decades. The global economic growth of previous years had a significant impact on the demand for oil and subsequently on the oil trade and shipping demand. However, the second half of 2008, the year 2009 and part of 2010 were marked by a major economic slowdown which has had, and is expected to continue to have, a significant impact on world trade, including the oil trade. Oil demand contracted sharply as a result of the global economic slow down. Lower demand for crude oil as well as diminished trade credit available for the trading of crude oil cargoes have led to decreased demand for tanker vessels, creating downward pressure on charter rates. Despite certain indications of recovery during 2010 and continual upward revisions of expected global oil demand growth for 2011, demand for tankers and charter rates remained on average at historically low levels and global economic conditions remain fragile with significant uncertainty remaining with respect to longer term recovery prospects, levels of recovery and long term effects. Such upward revisions are primarily based on increased demand from countries not part of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”) such as China and India, and if economic growth in these countries slows, global oil demand growth may be significantly affected. If the current global economic environment persists or worsens, we may be negatively affected as: · We may not be able to employ our vessels at favorable charter rates or operate our vessels profitably. · The market value of our vessels could significantly decrease, which may cause us to recognize losses if any of our vessels are sold or if their values are impaired and it may also affect our compliance with a number of our loan covenants. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. The factors affecting the supply and demand for tankers are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. Fluctuations in charter rates and tanker values result from changes in the supply and demand for tanker capacity and changes in the supply and demand for oil and oil products. The factors that influence demand for tanker capacity include: · demand for crude oil and oil products; 8 · supply of crude oil and oil products; · regional availability of refining capacity; · acts of God and natural disasters including, but not limited to, earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes and typhoons; · global and regional economic and political conditions, including developments in international trade, national oil reserves policies, fluctuations in industrial and agricultural production and armed conflicts; · the distance oil and oil products are to be moved by sea; · demand for seaborne storage of crude oil or oil products; · increases in the production of oil in areas linked by pipelines to consuming areas, the extension of existing, or the development of new, pipeline systems in markets we may serve, or the conversion of existing non-oil pipelines to oil pipelines in those markets; · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns; · disruption of normal trading patterns due to weather or regional conflicts; · competition from alternative sources of energy, including nuclear power, natural gas and coal; · refinery utilization and maintenance; and · regulatory changes including regulations adopted by supranational authorities such as the IMO and/or industry bodies, such as safety and environmental regulations and requirements by oil major companies. The factors that influence the supply of tanker capacity include: · the number of newbuilding deliveries; · any potential delays in the delivery of newbuilding vessels and/or cancellations of newbuilding orders; · the scrapping rate of older vessels; · global scrapping capacity; · the price of steel; · conversion of tankers to other uses; · the successful implementation of the single hull phase out; · port and canal congestion; 9 · the number of vessels that are out of service; and · environmental and other concerns and regulations. In addition to the prevailing and anticipated freight rates, factors that affect the rate of newbuilding, scrapping and laying-up include newbuilding prices, secondhand vessel values in relation to scrap prices, costs of bunkers and other operating costs, costs associated with flag and classification society surveys, normal maintenance and insurance coverage, the efficiency and age profile of the existing fleet in the market and government and industry regulation of maritime transportation practices, particularly environmental protection laws and regulations. The factors influencing the supply of and demand for shipping capacity are outside of our control and we may not be able to correctly assess the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions. We anticipate that the future demand for our tanker vessels will be dependent upon economic growth in the world’s economies, including, in particular, the OECD countries, China and India, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global tanker vessel fleet and the sources and supply of tanker cargo to be transported by sea including output by member states of the Organization for Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”), West African and South American oil producing countries and the former Soviet Union (“FSU”). Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Historically, the tanker markets have been volatile as a result of the many conditions and factors that can affect the price, supply and demand for tanker capacity. If the rate of recovery from the recent global economic crisis slows or the global economy deteriorates again, demand for transportation of oil over longer distances and supply of tankers to carry that oil may be further reduced, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Changes in the oil markets could result in decreased demand for our vessels and services. Demand for our vessels and services in transporting oil will depend upon world and regional oil markets. Any decrease in shipments of crude oil in those markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, those markets have been volatile as a result of the many factors, conditions and events that affect the price, production and transport of oil, including competition from alternative energy sources. One such factor is the price of worldwide crude oil. The world’s oil markets have historically experienced high levels of volatility. In July 2008, oil prices rose to a high of approximately $148 per barrel before decreasing to approximately $35 per barrel by the end of December 2008 and were at approximately $116 per barrel as of March 31, 2011. In the long term it is possible that oil demand may be reduced by an increased reliance on alternative energy sources, a drive for increased efficiency in the use of oil as a result of environmental concerns or high oil prices. The recent global economic downturn has severely affected the world economy and the prospects for recovery, especially in the OECD countries, remain uncertain. Currently, growth for demand for oil is mainly from developing countries such as China and India and a slowdown in these countries’ economies or in the OECD countries may severely affect global oil demand growth, and may result in protracted, reduced consumption of oil and a decreased demand for our vessels and lower charter rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. 10 Decreases in shipments of crude oil may adversely affect our financial performance. The demand for our oil tankers derives primarily from demand for Arabian Gulf and West African crude oil, along with crude oil from the FSU. Among the factors which could lead to a decrease in shipments of crude oil from these geographical areas are: · increased crude oil production from other areas; · increased refining capacity in the Arabian Gulf, West Africa or the FSU; · increased use of existing and future crude oil pipelines in the Arabian Gulf, West Africa and the FSU; · a decision by Arabian Gulf, West African and the FSU oil-producing nations to increase their crude oil prices or to further decrease or limit their crude oil production; · armed conflict in the Arabian Gulf and West Africa and political or other factors; · escalating tensions with Iran and other regional conflicts in the Middle East, such as unrest in Egypt, Syria, Yemen and Bahrain and their potential spill over effects on other oil producing countries in the Middle East. · Protracted conflict or civil war in Libya or other oil producing countries; and · Natural catastrophes such as the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan, which could affect the country’s short- and long term crude oil imports. A wide range of economic, social and other factors can significantly affect the strength of the world’s industrial economies and their demand for crude oil from the mentioned geographical areas. Decreases in shipments of crude oil from the above mentioned geographical areas, reduced demand for crude oil and the shipping of crude oil or the increased availability of pipelines used to transport crude oil, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. The shipping industry is cyclical, which may lead to lower charter hire rates, defaults of our charterers and lower vessel values, resulting in decreased dividends to our shareholders. The shipping industry is cyclical, which may result in volatility in charter hire rates and vessel values. The rates we can obtain for our vessels in the future may materially differ from previous rates. Even if we manage to successfully charter our vessels in the future, our charterers may go bankrupt or fail to perform their obligations under the charter agreements, they may delay payments or suspend payments altogether, they may terminate the agreements prior to the agreed upon expiration date or they may attempt to re-negotiate the terms of the charters. If we are required to enter into a charter when charter hire rates are low, our results of operations and our ability to make dividend payments to our shareholders could be adversely affected. In addition, the market value and charter hire rates of crude oil tankers can fluctuate substantially over time due to a number of different factors, including: · the supply of crude oil, which is influenced by, amongst others: 11 · international economic activity; · geographic changes in oil production, processing and consumption; · oil price levels; · storage and inventory policies of the major oil and oil trading companies; · competition from alternative sources of energy; and · strategic inventory policies of countries such as the United States, China and India; · the demand for oil; · prevailing economic conditions in the market in which the vessel trades; · availability of credit to charterers and traders in order to finance expenses associated with the relevant trades; · regulatory change; · lower levels of demand for the seaborne transportation of refined products and crude oil; · demand for floating storage of oil and oil products; · increases in the supply of vessel capacity; and · the cost of retrofitting or modifying existing ships, as a result of technological advances in vessel design or equipment, changes in applicable environmental or other regulations or standards, or otherwise. From time to time, we expect to enter into agreements with Capital Maritime or other third parties to purchase additional newbuildings or other vessels (or interests in vessel-owning companies). Between the time we enter into an agreement for such purchase and delivery of the vessel, the market value of similar vessels may decline. The market value of vessels is influenced by the ability of buyers to access bank finance and equity capital and any disruptions to the market and the possible lack of adequate available finance may negatively affect such market values. Despite a decline in market values we would still be required to purchase the vessel at the agreed-upon price. If we sell a vessel at a time when the market value of our vessels has fallen, the sale may be at less than the vessel’s carrying amount, resulting in a loss. In addition, a decrease in the future charter rate and/or market value of our vessels could potentially result in an impairment charge. A decline in the market value of our vessels could also lead to a default under any prospective credit facility to which we become a party, affect our ability to refinance our existing credit facilities and/or limit our ability to obtain additional financing. 12 If the contraction of the global credit markets and the resulting volatility in the financial markets continues or worsens, it may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and on our ability to obtain bank financing and/or to access the capital markets for future debt or equity offerings, hindering our ability to complete future purchases of vessels or pursue other potential growth opportunities. Since 2008, a number of major financial institutions have experienced serious financial difficulties and, in some cases, have entered into bankruptcy proceedings or are in regulatory enforcement actions. These difficulties have resulted, in part, from declining markets for assets held by such institutions, particularly the reduction in the value of their mortgage and asset-backed securities portfolios. These difficulties have been compounded by financial turmoil affecting the world’s debt, credit and capital markets, and the general decline in the willingness by banks and other financial institutions to extend credit, particularly in the shipping industry due to the historically low asset values of ships. Given these conditions, the ability of banks and credit institutions to finance new projects, including the acquisition of new vessels in the future, is uncertain. In addition, these difficulties may adversely affect the financial institutions that provide our credit facilities and may impair their ability to continue to perform under their financing obligations to us, which could have an impact on our ability to fund current and future obligations. Furthermore, our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering, as well as by the continuing adverse market conditions, including weakened demand for, and increased supply of tankers resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions, weakness in the financial markets and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. The restrictions imposed by our credit facilities, including the obligation to comply with certain asset maintenance and other ratios, may further restrict our ability to access available financing. If we are unable to obtain additional credit or draw down upon our borrowing capacity, it may negatively impact our ability to fund future obligations. In addition, the severe deterioration in the banking and credit markets has resulted in potentially higher interest costs and overall limited availability of liquidity, which may further affect our ability to complete any future purchases of vessels from Capital Maritime or from third parties or to refinance our debt. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures and for the refinancing of our debt could also have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, our ability to grow and make cash distributions and could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. An economic slowdown in the OECD area and the Asia Pacific region could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. A significant number of the port calls we expect our vessels to make will likely involve the loading or discharging of cargo in ports in OECD countries and the Asia Pacific region. As a result, a negative change in economic conditions in any OECD country or in any Asia Pacific country, and particularly in the US, European Union, China, India or Japan, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. In particular, in recent years, China and India have been two of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product and demand for oil. These economies may experience a significant slowdown or contraction in the future. In addition, a significant or protracted slowdown or recession in the economies of the United States, the European Union (the “EU”) or various Asian countries may adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Moreover, the recent earthquake and resultant catastrophe in Japan has led to the closing of various refineries, which, in the short term, is expected to decrease demand 13 for crude tankers in the country. Even if refinery capacity is restored, demand for crude oil from Japan may not reach the previous levels or may decrease. Charterhire rates for tanker vessels are volatile and are currently at relatively low levels as compared to historical levels and may further decrease in the future, which may adversely affect our earnings. Tanker charterhire rates are sensitive to changes in demand for and supply of vessel capacity and consequently are volatile. Pricing of oil transportation services occurs in a highly competitive global tanker charter market. Crude charter rates have remained at close to historical lows in the second half of 2010. The tanker charter market may not recover and may continue to decline further. These circumstances, which result from the increased vessel supply and limited demolition as well as the economic dislocation worldwide and the disruption of the credit markets, have had a number of adverse consequences for tanker shipping, including, among other things: · decreased demand and supply of crude oil; · decreased demand for the transportation of crude oil; · reduced refinery throughputs and refinery margins; · decreased demand for floating storage of crude oil and oil products; · an absence of financing for vessels; · limited second-hand market for the sale of vessels; · extremely low charter rates, particularly for vessels employed in the spot market, which might not be sufficient to cover the vessel’s operating expenses; · widespread loan covenant defaults in the tanker shipping industry; and · declaration of bankruptcy by some operators, traders and shipowners as well as charterers. The continuation or exacerbation of one or more of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. We are, and expect to continue to be, dependent on spot charters and spot index-related charter agreements with profit sharing arrangements, which are dependent on spot market fluctuations, and any decrease in spot charter rates in the future may adversely affect our earnings and our ability to pay dividends. We currently charter all our vessels on the spot market or under spot index-related time charter agreements, which are dependent on spot market fluctuations. As a result, we are exposed to the cyclicality and volatility of the spot charter market and expect to be highly dependent on spot market charter rates. Although spot chartering is common in the tanker industry, the spot charter market may fluctuate significantly based upon demand for seaborne transportation of crude oil and oil products as well as 14 tanker supply. World oil demand and supply is influenced by many factors, including international economic activity; geographic changes in oil production, processing, and consumption; oil price levels; storage and inventory policies of the major oil and oil trading companies; and strategic inventory policies of countries such as the United States, China and India. The successful operation of our vessels in the spot charter market depends upon, among other things, obtaining profitable spot charters and minimizing, to the extent possible, time spent waiting for charters and time spent traveling ballast to pick up cargo. The spot market is very volatile, and, in the past, there have been periods when spot rates have declined below the operating cost of vessels. If future spot charter rates decline, then we may be unable to operate our vessels trading in the spot market profitably, meet our obligations, including payments on indebtedness, or to pay dividends. Furthermore, charter rates for spot charters are fixed for a single voyage which may last up to several weeks; accordingly, during periods in which spot charter rates are rising, we will generally experience delays in realizing the benefits from such increases. Our spot index-related time charter agreements revenues are based on the performance of certain spot market indices and the speed-consumption characteristics of our vessels. These spot market indices might underperform the overall spot market or other spot indices. Our ability to obtain or renew the charters on our vessels, the charter rates payable under any replacement charters and vessel values will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the sectors in which our vessels operate at that time, changes in the supply and demand for vessel capacity and changes in the supply and demand for the seaborne transportation of energy resources. We currently derive a significant portion of our revenues from a single customer, and the loss of this customer could result in a significant loss of revenues and cash flow. Four of our five vessels are currently under spot index-related time charter agreements with Shell International Trading & Shipping Co. Ltd. (“Shell”). For the year ended December 31, 2010, Shell accounted for 67% of our revenues. The loss of this customer could result in a significant loss of revenues and cash flow. We could lose this customer or the benefits of the charters entered into with it if: · the customer faces financial difficulties forcing it to declare bankruptcy or making it impossible for it to perform its obligations under the charter, including the payment of the agreed rates in a timely manner; · the customer fails to make charter payments because of its financial inability, disagreements with us or otherwise; · the customer tries to re-negotiate the terms of the charter agreement due to prevailing economic and market conditions; · the customer exercises certain rights to terminate a charter; · the customer terminates the charter because we fail to deliver the vessel within a fixed period of time, the vessel is lost or damaged beyond repair, there are serious deficiencies in the vessel or prolonged periods of off-hire, or we default under the charter; 15 · a prolonged force majeure event affecting the customer, including damage to or destruction of relevant production facilities, war or political unrest prevents us from performing services for that customer; or · the customer terminates the charter because we fail to comply with the strict safety, environmental and vetting criteria of the charterer or the rules and regulations of various maritime organizations and bodies. We may derive a portion of our future revenues from time to time from medium- to long-term time charters (including bareboat charters). We currently charter all our vessels on the spot market or under spot-index related time charter agreements. We may, however, elect to pursue other chartering opportunities in the long and medium term charter markets, including bareboat charters, in the future and we may derive a significant portion of our revenues from time to time from such charters. In such event, if we lose a key charter, we may be unable to re-deploy the related vessel on terms as favorable to us due to the long-term nature of charters. If we are unable to re-deploy a vessel for which the charter has been terminated, we will not receive any revenues from that vessel, but we may be required to pay expenses necessary to maintain the vessel in proper operating condition. Until such time as the vessel is re-chartered, we may have to operate it in the spot market at charter rates, which may not be as favorable to us as medium- to long-term charter rates that may be prevailing at the time. Under certain charter agreements, a customer may be granted the right to purchase the vessel being chartered. If this right is exercised, we would not receive any further revenue from the vessel and may be unable to obtain a substitute vessel and charter. This may cause us to receive decreased revenue and cash flows from having fewer vessels operating in our fleet. Any replacement newbuilding would not generate revenues during its construction, and we may be unable to charter any replacement vessel on terms as favorable to us as those of the terminated charter. Any compensation under our charters for a purchase of the vessels may not adequately compensate us for the loss of the vessel and related time charter. The loss of any of our customers, time or bareboat charters or vessels, or a decline in payments under our charters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. The process for obtaining longer period charters is highly competitive. In the event we elect to employ our vessels under longer charters, we may have trouble competing for medium- to long-term charters and our entry into such charters could negatively impact our returns. We currently charter all our vessels on the spot market or under spot index-related time charter agreements. In the future, we may elect to pursue different chartering arrangements, as medium- to long-term time charters and bareboat charters have the potential to provide income at pre-determined rates over more extended periods of time or extend the current spot index-related charter agreements. However, the process for obtaining or extending longer term fixed or floating rate time charters and bareboat charters is highly competitive and generally involves a lengthy, intensive and continuous screening and vetting process and the submission of competitive bids that often extends for several months. In addition to the quality, age and suitability of the vessel, longer term shipping contracts tend to be awarded based upon a variety of other factors relating to the vessel operator, including: · the operator’s environmental, health and safety record; 16 · compliance with the standards set by the International Maritime Organization (“IMO”) (the United Nations agency for maritime safety and the prevention of marine pollution by ships) and the heightened industry standards that have been set by some energy companies; · shipping industry relationships; · reputation for customer service, technical and operating expertise; · shipping experience and quality of ship operations, including cost-effectiveness; · quality, experience and technical capability of crews; · the ability to finance vessels at competitive rates and overall financial stability; · relationships with shipyards and the ability to obtain suitable berths; · construction management experience, including the ability to procure on-time delivery of new vessels according to customer specifications; · willingness to accept operational risks pursuant to the charter, such as allowing termination of the charter for force majeure events; and · competitiveness of the bid in terms of overall price. In the event we pursue chartering opportunities in the long- and medium-term charter markets, it is likely that we will face substantial competition such business from a number of experienced companies. Many of these competitors might have significantly greater financial resources than we do. It is also likely that we will face increased numbers of competitors entering into our transportation sectors. Many of these competitors have strong reputations and extensive resources and experience. Increased competition may cause greater price competition, especially for medium- to long-term charters. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to expand our relationships with customers or obtain new customers for medium- to long-term time charters or bareboat charters on a profitable basis, if at all. However, if we employ our vessels under longer term time charters or bareboat charters, our vessels may not be available for trading in the spot market during an upturn in the tanker market cycle, when spot trading may be more profitable, and our results of operations and operating cash flow could be adversely affected. Failure to fulfill oil majors’ vetting processes might adversely affect the employment of our vessels in the spot and period market. Shipping in general and crude oil, refined product and chemical tankers in particular have been, and will remain, heavily regulated. Many international and national rules, regulations and other requirements—whether imposed by the classification societies, international statutes, national and local administrations or industry—must be complied with in order to enable a shipping company to operate and a vessel to trade. Traditionally there have been relatively few commercial players in the oil trading business and the industry is continuously being consolidated. The so called “oil majors,” such as ExxonMobil Corporation, BP p.l.c., Royal Dutch Shell plc, Chevron Corporation, Conoco-Phillips Inc., Statoil ASA 17 and Total S.A., together with a few smaller companies, represent a significant percentage of the production, trading and, especially, shipping (terminals) of crude and oil products world-wide. Concerns for the environment have led the oil majors to develop and implement a strict due diligence process when selecting their commercial partners, especially vessels and vessel operators. The vetting process has evolved into a sophisticated and comprehensive assessment of both the vessel and the vessel operator. While numerous factors are considered and evaluated prior to a commercial decision, the oil majors, through their trade association, Oil Companies International Marine Forum (“OCIMF”), have developed and are implementing two basic tools: (a) a Ship Inspection Report Programme (“SIRE”); and (b) the Tanker Management & Self Assessment (“TMSA”) Program. The former is a ship inspection based upon a thorough Vessel Inspection Questionnaire (“VIQ”), and performed by OCIMF-accredited inspectors, resulting in a report being logged on SIRE. The report is an important element of the ship evaluation undertaken by any oil major when a commercial need exists. Based upon commercial needs, there are three levels of assessment used by the oil majors: (a) terminal use, which will clear a vessel to call at one of the oil major’s terminals; (b) voyage charter, which will clear the vessel for a single voyage; and (c) term charter, which will clear the vessel for use for an extended period of time. While for the terminal use and voyage charter relationships a ship inspection and the operator’s TMSA will be sufficient for the assessment to be undertaken, a term charter relationship also requires a thorough office audit. An operator’s request for such an audit is by no means a guarantee one will be performed; it will take a long record of proven excellent safety and environmental protection on the operator’s part as well as high commercial interest on the part of the oil major to have an office audit performed. Few ship management companies worldwide are evaluated by the oil majors and even fewer complete the evaluation successfully. We currently benefit from Capital Maritime’s expertise in technical fleet management and its ability to meet the rigorous vetting requirements of some of the world’s most selective major international oil companies, including BP p.l.c., Chevron Corporation, Conoco-Phillips Inc., ExxonMobil Corporation, Royal Dutch Shell plc, Statoil ASA, Total S.A. and others. However, Capital Maritime may not maintain this position, and in the event it fails to meet these vetting requirements on an ongoing basis our operations may be materially affected. Should either Capital Maritime or Capital Ship Management not continue to successfully clear the oil majors’ risk assessment processes on an ongoing basis, our vessels’ present and future employment as well as our relationship with our existing charterers and our ability to obtain new charterers, could be adversely affected. Such a situation may lead to the oil majors’ terminating existing charters and refusing to use our vessels in the future which would adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Please read “Item 4B: Business Overview—Major Oil Company Vetting Process” for more information regarding this process. An over-supply of tanker vessel capacity may lead to reductions in charterhire rates and profitability. The market supply of tanker vessels has been increasing as a result of limited demolition or removals of older tanker vessels and the delivery of substantial newbuilding orders over the last few years, which, based on the current order book is expected to continue into 2011. Newbuildings were delivered in significant numbers starting at the beginning of 2006 and continued to be delivered in significant numbers through 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 to date. In addition, it is estimated by Clarkson Shipping Intelligence Weekly, that the current newbuilding order book, which extends to 2014, equaled 18 approximately 26% of the existing world tanker fleet and the order book may increase further in proportion to the existing fleet. The current newbuilding orderbook for crude tanker vessels is even higher at a level equal to approximately 33% of the existing crude tanker fleet. An oversupply of tanker vessel capacity may result in a reduction of charterhire rates. If a reduction in charterhire rates continues, we may only be able to charter our vessels at reduced or unprofitable rates, or we may not be able to charter these vessels at all. The occurrence of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, valuation of our assets, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, capacity to grow and ability to pay dividends. Delays, cancellations or non-completion of deliveries of newbuilding vessels could harm our operating results. We currently do not have any scheduled newbuilding deliveries. In the event we enter into contracts for the acquisition of newbuilding vessels we will face the risk that the delivery of such vessels could be delayed, not completed or cancelled, which would delay our receipt of revenues under charters or other contracts related to the vessels. The shipbuilder could fail to deliver the newbuilding vessel as agreed or we could cancel the purchase contract if the shipbuilder fails to meet its obligations. In addition, under charters we may enter into that are related to a newbuilding, if our delivery of the newbuilding to our customer is delayed, we may be required to pay liquidated damages during the delay. For prolonged delays, the customer may terminate the charter and, in addition to the resulting loss of revenues, we may be responsible for additional, substantial liquidated damages. The completion and delivery of newbuildings could be delayed, cancelled or otherwise not completed because of: quality or engineering problems; changes in governmental regulations or maritime self-regulatory organization standards; work stoppages or other labor disturbances at the shipyard; bankruptcy or other financial crisis of the shipbuilder; a backlog of orders at the shipyard; political or economic disturbances; weather interference or catastrophic event, such as a major earthquake, tsunami or fire; requests for changes to the original vessel specifications; shortages of or delays in the receipt of necessary construction materials, such as steel; inability to finance the construction or conversion of the vessels; inability to obtain requisite permits or approvals; or other factors. If delivery of a vessel is materially delayed, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. Although building contracts typically incorporate penalties for late delivery, vessels we order in the future may not be delivered on time or we may not be able to collect the late delivery payment from the shipyards. New vessels may experience initial operational difficulties. Four of the five vessels in our fleet have been in operation for less than one year. New vessels, during their initial period of operation, have the possibility of encountering structural, mechanical and electrical problems. Normally, we will receive the benefit of a warranty from the shipyard for new buildings, but it is possible that the warranty may not be able to resolve any problem with the vessel without additional costs to us. In addition, the vessels that make up our fleet are based on standard designs from Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. Ltd. Shipyard in Korea (“Daewoo Shipbuilding”) and Universal Shipbuilding Corporation, Ariake shipyard in Japan (“Universal Shipbuilding”). As a result, any latent design defect discovered in one of our vessels will likely affect the other vessels from that yard. Any disruptions in the operation of our vessels resulting from defects could adversely affect our receipt of revenues under the charters for the vessels affected. The secondhand market for suitable vessels is currently slow, which may impede our ability to acquire suitable vessels and grow our fleet. Two of the Suezmax vessels in our fleet were purchased on the secondhand market directly from their previous owners. Although the secondhand sale and purchase market for tankers has traditionally 19 been relatively liquid, currently the secondhand market is relatively slower. Few VLCC, Suezmax, Aframax and Panamax crude tankers were sold recently, and even fewer of these vessels have been modern. Our current fleet consists of VLCC and Suezmax vessels; however, we intend to continue evaluating all classes of crude tanker vessels, including Aframax and Panamax tanker vessels, for potential future acquisitions. Should the secondhand tanker market remain relatively illiquid, we may decide to purchase some or all of our fleet as newbuilding vessels. This could increase the purchase cost of our fleet and delay the growth of our fleet, as orders for newbuilding vessels typically take 14 to 36 months to fulfill. Please see “—Risk Factors Related to Our Planned Business & Operations—Company Specific Risk Factors for more information on certain risks associated with buying newbuilding vessels. —We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to grow the size of our fleet, which may diminish our ability to pay dividends, increase our financial leverage, or dilute our shareholders’ ownership interest in us”. The market values of our vessels may decrease, which could adversely affect our operating results, cause us to breach one or more covenants in any credit facility we may enter into, or limit the total amount we may borrow under such a credit facility. Tanker values have declined since the summer of 2010. If the book value of one of our vessels is impaired due to unfavorable market conditions or a vessel is sold at a price below its book value, we would incur a loss that could adversely affect our financial results. Also, if we enter into a credit facility in the future, certain covenants of that credit facility may depend on the market value of our fleet. If the market value of our fleet declines, we may not be in compliance with certain provisions of the credit facility, and we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing under the credit facility. The occurrence of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, ability to grow, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. If our vessels suffer damage due to the inherent operational risks of the tanker industry, we may experience unexpected drydocking costs and delays or total loss of our vessels, which may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, business interruptions caused by mechanical failures, grounding, fire, explosions and collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. In addition, the operation of tankers has unique operational risks associated with the transportation of oil. Compared to other types of vessels, tankers are exposed to a higher risk of damage and loss by fire, whether ignited by a terrorist attack, collision or other cause, due to the high flammability and high volume of the oil transported in tankers. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover in full. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, may adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, space at drydocking facilities is sometimes limited and not all drydocking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable drydocking facility or our vessels may be forced to travel to a drydocking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels’ positions. The loss of earnings while these vessels are forced to wait for space or to travel to more distant drydocking facilities may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Further, the total loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. If we are unable to adequately maintain or safeguard our vessels, we may be unable to prevent any such damage, costs, or loss that could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay dividends. 20 We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental and operational safety laws and conventions that require significant expenditures, affect our cash flows and net income and could significantly limit our operations and subject us to significant liability. Our operations are affected by extensive and changing international, national and local environmental protection laws, regulations, treaties, conventions and standards in force in international waters, the jurisdictional waters of the countries in which our vessels operate, as well as the countries of our vessels’ registration. Many of these requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills, air emissions and other pollution, and to reduce potential negative environmental effects associated with the maritime industry in general. Our compliance with these requirements can be costly. These requirements can affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels, require a reduction in cargo capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations and natural resource damages, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous substances from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our operations. We could also become subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to the release of or exposure to hazardous materials associated with our current or historic operations. Violations of or liabilities under environmental requirements also can result in substantial penalties, fines and other sanctions, including, in certain instances, seizure or detention of our vessels. We could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, fines, penalties, third-party claims and natural resource damages, as the result of an oil spill or other liabilities under environmental laws. The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA 90”) affects all vessel owners shipping oil or petroleum products to, from or within the United States. OPA 90 allows for potentially unlimited liability without regard to fault of owners, operators and bareboat charterers of vessels for oil pollution in U.S. waters. Similarly, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, 1969, as amended, which has been adopted by most countries outside of the U.S., imposes liability for oil pollution in international waters. OPA 90 expressly permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to hazardous materials and oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries. Coastal states in the U.S. have enacted pollution prevention liability and response laws, many providing for unlimited liability. In addition to complying with existing laws and regulations and those that may be adopted, shipowners may incur significant additional costs in meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. Government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become stricter in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditure on our vessels to keep them in compliance, or even to scrap or sell certain vessels altogether. For example, recent amendments to the Marine Pollution (“MARPOL”) regulations regarding the prevention of air pollution from ships establish a series of progressive standards to further limit the sulphur content in fuel oil, which will be phased in through 2020, and new tiers of nitrogen oxide (“NOx”) emission standards for new marine diesel engines, depending on their date of installation. Additionally, more stringent emission standards apply in the coastal areas designated as Emission Control Areas, including the Baltic Sea, the North Sea, and the United States and Canadian coastal areas. Further legislation, or amendments to existing legislation, applicable to international and national maritime trade is expected over the coming years relating to environmental matters, such as ship recycling, sewage systems, emission control (including emissions of greenhouse gases), ballast treatment 21 and handling. For example, legislation and regulations that will require more stringent controls of air emissions from ocean-going vessels are pending or have been approved at the federal and state level in the U.S. The relevant standards are consistent with the 2008 Amendments to Annex VI of MARPOL. Such legislation or regulations may require significant additional capital expenditures (such as additional costs required for the installation of control equipment on each vessel) or operating expenses (such as increased costs for low-sulfur fuel) in order for us to maintain our vessels’ compliance with international and/or national regulations. In addition, various jurisdictions, including the IMO and the United States, have proposed or implemented requirements governing the management of ballast water to prevent the introduction of non-indigenous species considered to be invasive. The IMO has adopted the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships’ Ballast Water and Sediments (the “BWM Convention”), which calls for a phased introduction of mandatory ballast water exchange requirements, to be replaced in time with mandatory concentration limits. The BWM Convention will enter into force 12 months after it has been adopted by 30 states, the combined merchant fleets of which represent not less than 35% of the gross tonnage of the world’s merchant shipping tonnage. As of December 31, 2010, 27 states, representing approximately 25.2% of the world’s merchant shipping tonnage, have ratified the BWM Convention. We may incur additional costs to install the relevant control equipment on our vessels in order to comply with the new standards. In the United States, ballast water management legislation has been enacted in several states, and federal legislation is currently pending in the U.S. Congress. In addition, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has also adopted a rule which requires commercial vessels to obtain a “Vessel General Permit” from the U.S. Coast Guard in compliance with the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (the “Clean Water Act”) regulating the discharge of ballast water and other discharges into U.S. waters. Significant expenditures for the installation of additional equipment or new systems on board our vessels may be required in order to comply with existing or future regulations regarding ballast water management in these other jurisdictions, along with the potential for increased port disposal costs. Other requirements may also come into force regarding the protection of endangered species which could lead to changes in the routes our vessels follow or in trading patterns generally and thus to additional capital expenditures. Additionally, new environmental regulations with respect to greenhouse gas emissions and preservation of biodiversity amongst others, are expected to come into effect following the agreement and execution of a G8 environmental agreement. A meeting of the G8 to discuss such matters took place in Canada in June 2010. Furthermore, as a result of marine accidents we believe that regulation of the shipping industry will continue to become more stringent and more expensive for us and our competitors. In recent years, the IMO and EU have both accelerated their existing non-double-hull phase-out schedules in response to highly publicized oil spills and other shipping incidents involving companies unrelated to us. Future incidents may result in the adoption of even stricter laws and regulations, which could limit our operations or our ability to do business and which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Please read “Item 4B: Business Overview—Regulation” below for a more detailed discussion of the regulations applicable to our vessels. 22 Marine transportation is inherently risky, and an incident involving significant loss of, or environmental contamination by, any of our vessels could harm our reputation and business. Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as: · marine disasters; · bad weather; · mechanical failures; · grounding, fire, explosions and collisions; · piracy; · human error; and · war and terrorism. An accident involving any of our vessels could result in any of the following: · environmental damage, including potential liabilities or costs, which could exceed the insurance coverage available to us, to recover any spilled oil or other petroleum products and to restore the eco-system where the spill occurred; · death or injury to persons or loss of property; · delays in the delivery of cargo; · loss of revenues from or termination of charter contracts; · governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business; · higher insurance rates; and · damage to our reputation and customer relationships generally. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The Deepwater Horizon incident may result in additional or changes to existing regulation that could result in additional costs to us or expose us to additional liabilities. The explosion onboard the semisubmersible drilling rig Deepwater Horizon, chartered by BP p.l.c. (“BP”), in the Gulf of Mexico in April 2010 may lead to material changes to existing regulation that could results in additional costs to us. In response to the Deepwater Horizon incident, the United States Congress is considering proposals that could result in additional and/or changes to existing regulation applicable to our operations. For example, bills have been introduced in both houses of the U.S. Congress that propose, among other things, to increase the limits of liability under the OPA 90 for all vessels, including tanker vessels. These proposals also address requirements for disaster response planning. Although we do not currently have any vessels under charter with BP or its affiliates, if these 23 or other bills are adopted, we could be subject to increased liabilities in the event of a disaster and/or increased operating costs. Increased inspection procedures by port authorities or other authorities and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of the contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, there have been a variety of initiatives intended to enhance vessel security. On November 25, 2002, the U.S. Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 (“MTSA”) came into effect. To implement certain portions of the MTSA, in July 2003, the U.S. Coast Guard issued regulations requiring the implementation of certain security requirements aboard vessels operating in waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. Similarly, in December 2002, amendments to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (“SOLAS”) created a new chapter of the convention dealing specifically with maritime security. The new chapter became effective in July 2004 and imposes various detailed security obligations on vessels and port authorities, most of which are contained in the newly created International Ship and Port Facilities Security Code (“ISPS Code”). The ISPS Code is designed to protect ports and international shipping against terrorism. After July 1, 2004, to trade internationally, a vessel must attain an International Ship Security Certificate from a recognized security organization approved by the vessel’s flag state. The U.S. Coast Guard has developed the Electronic Notice of Arrival/Departure (“e-NOA/D”) application to provide the means of fulfilling the arrival and departure notification requirements of the U.S. Coast Guard and U.S. Customs and Border Protection (“CBP”) online. Prior to September 11, 2001, ships or their agents notified the Marine Safety Office/Captain of the Port zone within 24 hours of the vessel’s arrival via telephone, fax, or e-mail. Due to the events of September 11, 2001, the U.S. Coast Guard’s National Vessel Movement Center (“NVMC”)/Ship Arrival Notification System was set up as part of a U.S. Department of Homeland Security initiative. Also, as a result of this initiative, the advance notice time requirement changed from 24 hours to 96 hours (or 24 hours, depending upon normal transit time). Notices of arrival or departure continue to be submitted via telephone, fax, or e-mail, but are now to be submitted to the NVMC, where watch personnel enter the information into a central U.S. Coast Guard database. Additionally, the National Security Agency has identified certain countries known for high terrorist activities and if a vessel has either called some of these identified countries in its previous ports or the members of the crew are from any of these identified countries, more stringent security requirements must be met. On June 6, 2005, the Advanced Passenger Information System (“APIS”) Final Rule, 19 C.F.R. §§ 4.7b and 4.64, became effective. Pursuant to these regulations, a commercial carrier arriving into or departing from the United States is required to electronically transmit an APIS manifest to CBP through an approved electronic interchange and programming format. All international commercial carriers transporting passengers or crewmembers must obtain an international carrier bond and place it on file with the CBP prior to entry or departure from the United States. The minimum bond amount is $50,000. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipping activities uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. 24 Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Over the last several years, the frequency of piracy incidents has increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia and towards the Mozambique Canal in the North Indian Ocean. For example, in April 2010, the M/V Samho Dream, a tanker vessel not affiliated with us, was captured by pirates in the Indian Ocean off the Somali Coast while carrying crude oil estimated to be worth $170.0 million. The vessel was in waters not normally known to be high risk seas for pirate attacks and was only released in November 2010 reportedly following a ransom payment in an undisclosed amount. On January 15, 2011, the M/V Samho Jewelry, a tanker vessel not affiliated with us, was pirated off the coast of Oman and was released following military action on January 21, 2011. According to the European Union Naval Force (“EUNAVFOR”) there were approximately 29 vessels and 693 hostages being held by pirates off the coast of Somalia in January 2011 and the average duration any vessel is held has increased. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized by insurers as “war risk” zones, as the Gulf of Aden temporarily was in May 2008, or Joint War Committee (“JWC”) “war and strikes” listed areas, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including costs which may be incurred to the extent we employ onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends as well as resulting in increased costs and decreased cash flows to our customers impairing their ability to make payments to us under our charters. In response to piracy incidents, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia, following consultation with regulatory authorities, we may station armed guards on some of our vessels in some instances. While any use of guards would be intended to deter and prevent the hijacking of our vessels, it may also increase our risk of liability for death or injury to persons or damage to personal property. If we do not have adequate insurance in place to cover such liability, it could adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Political and government instability, terrorist or other attacks, war or international hostilities can affect the tanker industry, which may adversely affect our business. We conduct most of our operations outside of the United States. In particular, we derive a portion of our revenues from shipping oil and oil products from politically unstable regions and our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions may be adversely affected by the effects of political instability, terrorist or other attacks, war or international hostilities. Past political efforts to disrupt shipping in these regions, particularly in the Arabian Gulf, have included attacks on ships and mining of waterways. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, the bombings in Spain on March 11, 2004 and in London on July 7, 2005, the current conflicts in Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya and other current and future conflicts and the continuing response of the United States to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks, continue to contribute to world economic instability and uncertainty in global financial markets. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility of the financial markets in the United States and globally and could negatively impact the US and world economy, potentially leading to an economic 25 recession. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political instability has also resulted in attacks on vessels, such as the attack on the M/T Limburg in October 2002, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. In addition, oil facilities, shipyards, vessels, pipelines and oil and gas fields could be targets of future terrorist attacks. Any such attacks could lead to, among other things, bodily injury or loss of life, vessel or other property damage, increased vessel operational costs, including insurance costs, and the inability to transport oil and other refined products to or from certain locations. Any of these occurrences or other events beyond our control that adversely affect the distribution, production or transportation of oil and other refined products to be shipped by us could entitle our customers to terminate our charter contracts and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions. Furthermore, our operations may be adversely affected by changing or adverse political and governmental conditions in the countries where our vessels are flagged or registered and in the regions where we otherwise engage in business. Any disruption caused by these factors may interfere with the operation of our vessels, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations may also be adversely affected by expropriation of vessels, taxes, regulation, tariffs, trade embargoes, economic sanctions or a disruption of or limit to trading activities, or other adverse events or circumstances in or affecting the countries and regions where we operate or where we may operate in the future. If our vessels call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the United States government, including Iran, Cuba, Sudan or Syria, it could adversely affect our reputation and the market for our common shares. From time to time, the charterers of our vessels may arrange for vessels in our fleet to call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the United States government and countries identified by the United States government as state sponsors of terrorism. The U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. In 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act (“CISADA”), which expanded the scope of the former Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expands the application of the prohibitions to non-U.S. persons, such as our corporation, and introduces limits on the ability to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. We are mindful of the restrictions contained in various U.S. statutes and regulations that limit the ability of companies and persons from doing business or trading with certain countries, including Sudan, Syria, Iran and Cuba. We believe we are currently in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations and, to maintain such compliance, we monitor and review the movement of our vessels on a continuing basis. To date, none of our vessels have made any port calls in Sudan, Syria or Cuba since their delivery to us during 2010. During 2010, two of our vessels made three port calls to Iran, representing approximately 2.5% of the 120 total calls on worldwide ports made by our vessels during 2010 and 2011, which we believe is immaterial to our business. We believe all such port calls were made in full compliance with UN regulations. These port calls occurred while the respective vessels were under spot index-related time charter agreements with Shell and involved the seaborne transportation of crude oil. All four of our spot index-related time charter agreements include provisions that, on the one hand, 26 restrict trades of our vessels to countries under sanctions or embargoes and, on the other, allow any transportation activities involving sanctioned countries to the extent permitted under the applicable sanction or embargo requirements. Our ordinary chartering policy is to try and include similar provisions in all of our period charters. More specifically, our current charters proscribe trades of our vessels to Cuba and Sudan and contain provision to also exclude Iran in the event further sanctions or boycott are imposed by the United Stated, the United Nations or the relevant vessel’s country of registration preventing legitimate and unsanctioned trade to and from Iran. Our charters do not impose a blanket prohibition on port calls in Syria. Should our charterer engage in actions that involve us or our vessels and that may represent material violations of sanctions and embargo laws or regulations, we would rely on our monitoring and control systems to detect such actions on a prompt basis and prevent them from occurring. The one vessel that is not subject to the charter provisions described above is currently traded in the spot market and the cargoes and port calls are selected by our manager further to our authorization and, to date, it has not called in Sudan, Syria, Iran or Cuba. Under our spot index-related charter agreements our charters report to us the revenue associated with particular voyages. The revenues from the three calls described above, represent approximately 0.6% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010, which we believe is immaterial to our business. Furthermore, we have not entered into agreements or other arrangements with the governments or any governmental entities of Sudan, Syria, Iran or Cuba and have entertained no direct business contacts with officials or representatives of any such governments or entities. Notwithstanding the above, we may not be able to comply at all future times with the applicable U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, particularly as the scope of certain of these laws and regulations may vary or be subject to changing interpretations. In addition, the charterers of our vessels may violate the same laws and regulations. Although these sanctions and embargoes do not prevent our vessels from making calls to ports in these countries, potential investors could view such port calls negatively, which could adversely affect our reputation and the market for our shares. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance, we may not be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines or other penalties and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our shares. Additionally, some investors may decide to divest their interest, or not to invest, in us simply because we do business with companies that do business in sanctioned countries. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. Investor perception of the value of our shares may also be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be costly and could reduce our net cash flows and net income. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be certified as being “in class” by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and SOLAS. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel’s machinery may be placed on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. We expect our vessels to be on special 27 survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also required to be drydocked every two to three years for inspection of its underwater parts. One of our vessels, the ‘Miltiadis M II’ is scheduled to undergo its special survey in 2011. If any vessel does not maintain its class or fails any annual, intermediate or special survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified, skilled employees or crew necessary to operate our business. Our success depends in large part on the ability of our Manager, any affiliated or sub-contracting parties they may contract with on our behalf, and us to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. In crewing our vessels, we require technically skilled employees with specialized training who can perform physically demanding work. Competition to attract and retain qualified crew members is intense. If we are not able to increase our rates to compensate for any crew cost increases, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Any inability our Manager, our third party technical managers, or we experience in the future to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could impair our ability to manage, maintain and grow our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Labor interruptions could disrupt our business. We plan for our vessels to be manned by masters, officers and crews that are employed by third parties. If not resolved in a timely and cost-effective manner, industrial action or other labor unrest could prevent or hinder our operations from being carried out normally and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. The smuggling of drugs or other contraband onto our vessels may lead to governmental claims against us. We expect that our vessels will call in ports in South America and other areas where smugglers attempt to hide drugs and other contraband on vessels, with or without the knowledge of crew members. To the extent our vessels are found with contraband, whether inside or attached to the hull of our vessel and whether with or without the knowledge of any of our crew, we may face governmental or other regulatory claims which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Arrests of our vessels by maritime claimants could cause a significant loss of earnings for the related off-hire period. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In certain cases, maritime claimants may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages of its Manager. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by “arresting” or “attaching” a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could result in a significant loss of earnings for the related off-hire period. In addition, in jurisdictions where the “sister ship” theory of liability applies, a claimant may arrest the vessel which is 28 subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. In countries with “sister ship” liability laws, claims might be asserted against us or any of our vessels for liabilities of other vessels that we own. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings. A government of a vessel’s registry could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. A government could also requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Increases in fuel prices could adversely affect our profits. Spot charter arrangements generally provide that the vessel owner or pool operator bear the cost of fuel in the form of bunkers, which is a significant vessel operating expense. Because we do not intend to hedge our fuel costs, an increase in the price of fuel beyond our expectations may adversely affect our profitability, cash flows and ability to pay dividends. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates as a result of events outside our control, including geo-political developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by members of OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns and regulations. Given that the vessel owner or pool operator bears the cost of fuel under spot charters, the recent volatility in fuel prices is one factor affecting profitability in the tanker spot market. To profitably price an individual charter, the vessel owner or pool operator must take into account the anticipated cost of fuel for the duration of the charter. Changes in the actual price of fuel at the time the charter is to be performed could result in the charter being performed at a significantly greater or lesser cost than originally anticipated and may result in losses or diminished profits. As an example of the volatility of fuel prices, in the last 12 months, the purchase price in the port of Fujairah, United Arab Emirates, of one of the most common fuels used by tanker vessels has fluctuated from approximately $447 to $697 per metric ton. The price of fuel also varies from port to port. COMPANY-SPECIFIC RISK FACTORS We have very limited operating history on which you can evaluate our business strategy. We are a recently-formed company with less than one year of operating history and had no assets prior to the closing of our initial public offering on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) in March 2010 (the “IPO”) other than a capital contribution from Crude Carriers Investments Corp. Accordingly, our business strategy and operations may not be successful. We may not be able to maintain our operations or implement our growth effectively. Our business plan will primarily depend on identifying suitable vessels that are in good condition, acquiring these vessels at favorable prices and profitably employing them on charters to establish and expand our operations. We may not be able to identify vessels that are suitable for our business plan. Furthermore, the price of vessels is volatile and beyond our control, and any purchase of a vessel involves 29 the risk of misjudging the value of the vessel and of purchasing the vessel at a price higher than what we could have paid had we purchased the vessel at another time. In addition, the vessels we identify and acquire may not perform at the levels we expect at the time they are acquired. In addition, we may also pursue opportunities for the acquisition of, or combination with, other shipping businesses. Any acquisition of or combination with another business may not be profitable to us at or after the time of such transaction and may not generate cash flow sufficient to justify our investment and benefit our shareholders. In addition, our growth strategy exposes us to risks that may harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business plan will depend upon a number of factors, some of which may not be within our control. These factors include our ability to: · identify suitable vessels or shipping companies for acquisitions or combinations with or joint ventures to establish our initial fleet and grow our fleet in the future; · successfully integrate any acquired vessels or businesses with our existing operations; and · obtain required debt or equity financing for our existing and any new operations. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks, including undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and suppliers and integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. In addition, competition from other companies, many of which have significantly greater financial resources than do we or Capital Maritime, may reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay higher prices. We may not be successful in executing our plans to maintain and grow our business and we may also incur significant expenses and losses in connection with these plans. Our failure to effectively identify, purchase, develop and integrate any vessels or businesses could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our acquisition growth strategy exposes us to risks that may harm our business, financial condition and operating results, including risks that we may: · fail to realize anticipated benefits, such as new customer relationships, cost-savings or cash flow enhancements; · incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with any vessels or businesses acquired, particularly if any vessel we acquire proves not to be in good condition; · be unable to hire, train or retain qualified shore and seafaring personnel to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; · decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; · significantly increase our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; · dilute our existing shareholders by issuing equity to fund our growth strategy; or 30 · incur other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. Unlike newbuildings, existing vessels typically do not carry warranties as to their condition. While we generally inspect existing vessels prior to purchase, such an inspection would normally not provide us with as much knowledge of a vessel’s condition as we would possess if it had been built for us and operated by us during its life. Repairs and maintenance costs for existing vessels are difficult to predict and may be substantially higher than for vessels we have operated since they were built. These costs could decrease our cash flow and reduce our liquidity. Moreover, we plan to finance potential future expansions of our fleet primarily through equity financing, which we expect will mainly consist of issuances of additional shares of our common stock, and internally-generated cash flow. We have entered into a revolving credit facility that we will use opportunistically for the growth of the Company in a manner that we expect will enhance our earnings, cash flow and net asset value. If we are unable to complete equity issuances at prices that we deem acceptable, our internally-generated cash flow is insufficient, or we cannot obtain further credit on favorable terms, we may need to revise our growth plan or consider alternative forms of financing. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we do not continue to successfully take advantage of the spot market on which we heavily depend or employ our vessels on time charters or in pools. Any decrease in spot charter rates may adversely affect our earnings and our ability to pay dividends. Our vessels are employed in the spot market and on spot index-related time charter agreements. Our financial performance is substantially affected by conditions in the tanker vessel spot market. The spot market is highly volatile and fluctuates based upon vessel and cargo supply and demand. Significant fluctuations in charter rates will result in significant fluctuations in the utilization of our vessels and our profitability. In addition, vessels may experience repeated periods of unemployment between spot charters. The successful operation of our vessels in the spot market depends upon, among other things, obtaining profitable spot charters and minimizing, to the extent possible, time spent waiting for charters and time spent traveling unladen to pick up cargo, or ballast time. In the past, there have been periods when spot rates have declined below the operating cost of vessels. Future spot rates may decline significantly and may not be sufficient to enable our vessels trading in the spot market to operate profitably or for us to pay dividends and may have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and financial condition. Capital Maritime and its affiliates may compete with us or claim business opportunities that would benefit us. Aside from the Miltiadis M II, of the 41 vessels currently owned, managed or contracted by Capital Maritime, Capital Maritime owns and manages one vessel and manages another vessel that engage in activities similar to those we conduct. In addition, Capital Maritime may otherwise compete with us and is not contractually restricted from doing so. The business opportunities agreement that we entered into with Capital Maritime on March 1, 2010 (the “Business Opportunities Agreement”), specifies that we have a right to take advantage of certain business opportunities, including certain spot charter, period charter, bareboat charter and vessel purchase opportunities. However, we have a limited time period within which to exercise such right after which Capital Maritime has the right to take advantage of any such opportunities for its own account. For example, we have (a) a maximum of 48 hours to take advantage of period and bareboat charter opportunities, (b) a reasonable amount of time in light of the facts and circumstances to take advantage of spot charter opportunities, (c) 120 hours (and an additional 72 hours upon our request) to take advantage of vessel acquisition opportunities and (d) a maximum of 120 hours to take advantage of other business opportunities. These provisions may not materially restrict 31 Capital Maritime’s ability to compete with us or claim business opportunities that would benefit us, and competition from Capital Maritime could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Please read “Related-Party Transactions—Business Opportunities Agreement”. Our strategy of financing vessel acquisitions and repaying our debt primarily through equity offerings and our earnings may adversely affect our growth and earnings. We plan to finance further acquisitions for our fleet and repay our debt primarily through equity offerings and internally-generated cash flows. We have currently drawn $134.6 million under our $200 million revolving credit facility to partly finance the acquisition of two of our vessels. We do not currently anticipate entering into a credit facility of sufficient size to allow us to make large additions to our fleet solely through borrowings. Our loan facility will become an amortizing one from the third quarter of 2011, unless we are able to repay or refinance it beforehand. Accordingly, if we are unable to complete equity offerings on acceptable terms or at all, or if our earnings are insufficient, we may be unable to take advantage of strategic opportunities to expand our fleet or repay our outstanding debt. As a result, our future earnings, cash flows and growth may be adversely affected. Please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for more information regarding our credit facility. We may be unable to pay dividends. We currently intend to pay a variable quarterly dividend equal to our cash available for distribution, which represents net cash flow during the previous quarter less any amount required to maintain a reserve that our board of directors determines from time to time is appropriate for the operation and future growth of our fleet, taking into account (among other factors) contingent liabilities, the terms of any credit facilities we may enter into, our other cash needs and the requirements of the laws of the Republic of The Marshall Islands. We define net cash flow as net income plus depreciation, amortization and other non-cash items less any net income attributable to the historical results of vessels acquired by the company from Capital Maritime. The amount of cash available for distribution will principally depend upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based upon, among other things: · the cyclicality in the spot and period vessel market; · the rates we obtain from our charters for spot or period charters; · the performance of pools and the rating of our vessels under such pool agreements if we choose to enter into such an agreement; · the price and demand for tanker cargoes; · the level of our operating costs, such as the cost of crews, spares, stores, lubricants and insurance; · the number of off-hire days for our fleet and the timing of, and number of days required for, maintenance and drydocking of our vessels; · delays in the delivery of any vessels we have agreed to acquire; · prevailing global and regional economic and political conditions; 32 · force majeure events; · compliance with oil major requirements and the vetting process; · the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of our business; and · the amount of interest payable on our loans. The actual amount of cash generated which can be used also depends upon other factors, such as: · the level of capital expenditures we make, including for maintaining existing vessels and acquiring new vessels, which we expect will be substantial; · our debt service requirements and the terms, covenants and restrictions on distributions contained in any credit agreement we may enter into; · our debt service amortization payments; · limitations in our credit facilities; · fluctuations in our working capital needs; and · the amount of any cash reserves established by our board of directors, including reserves for the conduct of our operations and growth and other matters. In addition, the declaration and payment of dividends is subject at all times to the discretion of our board of directors and compliance with the laws of the Republic of The Marshall Islands. Please read “Item 8: “Our Dividend Policy” and “Limitations on Dividend and Our Ability to Change Our Dividend Policy” for more information. Our growth depends on continued growth in demand for crude oil and oil products and the continued demand for seaborne transportation of crude oil. Our growth strategy focuses on expansion mainly in the crude oil shipping sector. Accordingly, our growth depends on continued growth in world and regional demand for oil and the transportation of crude oil by sea, which could be negatively affected by a number of factors, including: · the economic and financial developments globally, including actual and projected global economic growth; · fluctuations in the actual or projected price of crude oil and refined products; · refining capacity and its geographical location; · increases in the production of oil in areas linked by pipelines to consuming areas, the extension of existing, or the development of new, pipeline systems in markets we may serve, or the conversion of existing non-oil pipelines to oil pipelines in those markets; 33 · decreases in the consumption of oil due to increases in its price relative to other energy sources, other factors making consumption of oil less attractive, energy conservation measures or environmental requirements on consumers; · availability of new, alternative energy sources; and · negative or deteriorating global or regional economic or political conditions, particularly in oil consuming regions, which could reduce energy consumption or its growth. The refining industry, which relies on crude oil as its prime source of supply for further processing, has been negatively affected by the economic downturn and in certain cases industry participants have postponed or cancelled certain investment expansion plans, including plans for additional refining capacity. Continued reduced demand for crude oil and the shipping of crude oil or the increased availability of pipelines used to transport crude oil, would have a material adverse effect on our future growth and could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and ability to pay dividends. Our ability to grow and satisfy our financial needs may be adversely affected by our dividend policy. The dividend policy we have adopted calls for us to distribute all of our cash available for distribution on a quarterly basis. Cash available for distribution may be reduced by any reserves that our board of directors may determine are required, in its sole discretion. Accordingly, our growth, if any, may not be as fast as businesses that reinvest their cash to expand ongoing operations. In determining the amount of cash available for distribution, our board of directors considers contingent liabilities, the terms of the credit facilities we have entered into, our other cash needs and the requirements of Marshall Islands law as well as growth potential of the company. Please read “Item 8: “Our Dividend Policy” and “Limitations on Dividend and Our Ability to Change Our Dividend Policy” for more information. We believe that we will generally finance maintenance from cash balances and expansion capital expenditures primarily from equity, internally-generated cash flow, and borrowings under the revolving credit facility we have entered into. To the extent we do not have sufficient cash reserves or are unable to obtain financing for these purposes, our dividend policy may significantly impair our ability to meet our financial needs or to grow. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet, which may reduce the amount of cash for dividends to our shareholders. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet and we generally expect to finance these operating capital expenditures with cash balances including cash raised through equity offerings. The reserves we may establish include capital expenditures associated with drydocking a vessel, modifying an existing vessel or acquiring a new vessel to the extent these expenditures are incurred to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet. These expenditures could increase as a result of changes in the cost of labor and materials; customer requirements; increases in our fleet size or the cost of replacement vessels; governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards relating to safety, security or the environment; and competitive standards. 34 In addition, operating capital expenditures will vary significantly from quarter to quarter based on the number of vessels drydocked during that quarter, among other factors. Significant operating capital expenditures may reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to grow the size of our fleet, which may diminish our ability to pay dividends, increase our financial leverage, or dilute our shareholders’ ownership interest in us. We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to increase the size of our fleet. We intend to expand our fleet by acquiring existing vessels from Capital Maritime or third parties or newbuilding vessels, which we refer to as newbuildings, or by entering into business combinations with other shipping businesses. We generally will be required to make installment payments on any newbuildings prior to their delivery, even though delivery of the completed vessel will not occur until much later (approximately two to four years from the order). We typically would pay 10% to 25% of the purchase price of an existing vessel upon signing the purchase contract and pay the balance due on delivery (which may be a few months later). If we finance all or a portion of these acquisition costs by issuing debt securities, we will increase the aggregate amount of interest we must pay prior to generating cash from the operation of the newbuilding. Any interest expense we incur in connection with financing our vessel acquisitions, including capitalized interest expense, will decrease the amount of our dividends. If we finance these acquisition costs by issuing shares of common stock, we will dilute our quarterly per-share dividends prior to generating cash from the operation of the newbuilding. To fund growth capital expenditures, we may be required to opportunistically incur borrowings, raise capital through the sale of debt or additional equity securities or use cash balances or cash from operations. Use of cash from operations will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution as dividends to our shareholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering, as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain funds for capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and on our ability to pay dividends. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional equity securities may result in significant shareholder ownership or dividend dilution. Our revolving credit facility imposes, and we expect that any future financing agreements we may enter into may impose, financial and other restrictions on us, such as limiting our ability to pay dividends. On March 31, 2010, we entered into a loan agreement with Nordea Bank Finland PLC, London branch, for a $100 million revolving credit facility. The size of the facility was increased to $150 million on April 22, 2010 and further increased to $200 million as of September 30, 2010. The revolving credit facility bears interest at Libor plus a margin of 3% (in the event the facility is converted into a term loan, this margin will increase to 3.25%). The loan commitment fees are calculated at 1% p.a. on any undrawn amount and are paid quarterly. We have used $134.6 million under our revolving credit facility to partially finance the acquisitions of the M/T Aias and the M/T Achilleas in June 2010. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our revolving credit facility and any future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to pursue and expand our business activities. For example, our revolving credit facility contains restrictive covenants that may prohibit us from, among other things: 35 · paying dividends; · incurring or guaranteeing indebtedness; · change ownership or structure, including mergers, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; · grow our business through borrowings alone; · charging, pledging or encumbering our vessels; · changing the flag, class, management or ownership of our vessels; · selling or changing the beneficial ownership or control of our vessels; · make certain investments; and · enter into a new line of business. Borrowings under our credit facility are jointly and severally secured by the vessel-owning companies of the vessels in our fleet. Our ability to borrow amounts under our credit facility to acquire additional vessels is subject to the execution of customary documentation, satisfaction of certain customary conditions precedent and compliance with terms and conditions included in the loan documents and partially dependent on whether the purchase of the acquired vessels meets certain financial criteria, and whether the vessels meet certain age and other requirements. Additionally, our credit facility prohibits us from paying dividends to our shareholders if an event of default has occurred and is continuing or if an event of default will occur as a result of the payment of such dividend. We also may not be able to pay dividends to our shareholders if we are not in compliance with certain financial covenants and ratios described below or if the aggregate market value of our collateralized vessels is less than 160% of the aggregate amount outstanding under the facility. In the event the facility is converted into a term loan, this percentage will increase to 180% of the aggregate outstanding principal amount. In addition to the above, our credit facility requires us to: · maintain minimum free consolidated liquidity of at least $1.0 million per collateralized vessel · maintain a ratio of EBITDA to net interest expense of at least 3.00 to 1.00 on a trailing four-quarter basis; and · maintain a ratio of Stockholders’ Equity to total assets of no less than 30:100. Furthermore, any contemplated vessel acquisitions will have to be at levels that do not impair the required ratios set out above. The depressed tanker market rate environment, which prevailed in the second half of 2010 has had an adverse effect on tanker asset values which is likely to persist if tanker rates remain at current, historically low levels. If the estimated asset values of the vessels in our fleet continue to decrease, such decreases may limit the amounts we can drawdown under our credit facilities to purchase additional vessels and our ability to expand our fleet. In addition, we may be obligated to pre-pay part of our outstanding debt in order to remain in compliance with the relevant covenants in our credit 36 facilities. If funds under our credit facilities become unavailable as a result of a breach of our covenants or otherwise, we may not be able to perform our business strategy which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. Therefore, we may need to seek consent from our lenders in order to engage in certain corporate actions. Our lenders’ interests may be different from ours and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders’ consent when needed. Although we were in compliance with the financial debt covenants contained in our credit facility as of December 31, 2010, our ability to comply with covenants and restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility or future debt instruments may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions, interest rate developments, changes in the funding costs of our banks and changes in asset valuations. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate further or fail to improve, we may fail to comply with these covenants. If we breach any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our credit facility or future financing agreements, our obligations may become immediately due and payable, and the lenders’ commitment, if any, to make further loans may terminate. We may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. A default under our credit facility or future financing agreements could also result in foreclosure on any of our vessels and other assets securing related loans. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Please read “Item 5B. Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Item 7B. Related-Party Transactions” for a more comprehensive discussion of our revolving credit facility. Our debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing, pursuing other business opportunities and paying dividends. In the event we are not able to refinance our debt, or we elect to convert our revolving credit facility to a term loan we will need to make principal payments which may have a material adverse impact on our ability to pay dividends. On March 31, 2010, we entered into a loan agreement with Nordea Bank Finland PLC, London branch, for a $100 million revolving credit facility. The size of the facility was increased to $150 million on April 22, 2010 and further increased to $200 million as of September 30, 2010.. As of December 31, 2010, we had $65.4 million in undrawn amounts under our credit facility and the amortization of any outstanding amounts under our facility is expected to start in September 2011. We also have the option to convert the facility into a term loan facility twelve months following any drawdown with a repayment schedule based on a nine year amortizing profile with final payment due in March 2015. Once the facility is converted into a term loan facility, the margin will be increased to 3.25% for the amounts that are considered to be a term loan. We aim to exercise this option and convert our credit facility into a term loan upon maturity or to repay it by raising capital subject to market conditions. For more information regarding our credit facility, please read “Item 5B: Liquidity and Capital Resources” below. In the future we may incur additional indebtedness, the level of which will have several important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation, the following: · our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired, or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; · in the event we convert our credit facility into a term loan we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make relevant interest and principal payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and for the payment of dividends; 37 · our debt level will make us more vulnerable to competitive pressures, or to a downturn in our business or in the economy in general, than our competitors with less debt; and · our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness or, in the event such indebtedness is converted into a term loan to make principal payments under our credit facility, starting in September 2011, will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. In case we decide to refinance partly or fully our existing financial indebtedness with the proceeds of an equity offering, that will depend on the prevailing equity markets conditions and our ability to execute an equity offering. In the event we are not able to refinance our existing debt obligations, or if our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, or to make relevant principal repayments as necessary, we may be forced to take actions such as reducing or eliminating our dividend, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. In the event we cannot make relevant interest or principal payments we may be in default under the terms of our credit facilities, which would materially affect our business and operations. Restrictions in our current, and any potential future, debt agreements may prevent us from paying distributions. Our payment of interest and the amortization of any outstanding amounts under our credit facility, which is expected to start in September 2011, as well as payments of principal due in the event we convert our credit facility into a term loan, will reduce cash available for payment of dividends. In addition, our credit facility prohibits the payment of dividends if we are not in compliance with certain financial covenants or upon the occurrence of an event of default or if the fair market value of the vessels in our fleet is less than 160% of the aggregate amount outstanding under our credit facility. The payment of principal and interest on any debt we have incurred, or will incur in the future, will reduce the amount of cash for dividends to our shareholders. Events of default under our credit facility include: · failure to pay principal or interest when due; · breach of certain undertakings, negative covenants and financial covenants contained in the credit facility, any related security document or guarantee or the interest rate swap agreements, including failure to maintain unencumbered title to any of the vessel-owning subsidiaries or any of the assets of the vessel-owning subsidiaries and failure to maintain proper insurance; · any breach of the credit facility, any related security document or guarantee or the interest rate swap agreements (other than breaches described in the preceding two bullet points) if, in the opinion of the lenders, such default is capable of remedy and continues unremedied after written notice of the lenders; 38 · any representation, warranty or statement made by us in the credit facility or any drawdown notice thereunder or related security document or guarantee or the interest rate swap agreements is untrue or misleading when made; · a cross-default of any other indebtedness of $10.0 million or greater; · we become, in the reasonable opinion of the lenders, unable to pay our debts when due; · any of our or our subsidiaries’ assets are subject to any form of execution, attachment, arrest, sequestration or distress above certain limits and not discharged within certain time frame; · an event of insolvency or bankruptcy; · cessation or suspension of our business or of a material part thereof; · unlawfulness, non-effectiveness or repudiation of any material provision of our credit facility, of any of the related finance and guarantee documents or of our interest rate swap agreements; · failure of effectiveness of security documents or guarantee; · our shares cease to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange or on any other recognized securities exchange; · any breach under any provisions contained in our interest rate swap agreements; · termination of our interest rate swap agreements or an event of default thereunder that is not remedied within five business days; · invalidity of a security document in any material respect or if any security document ceases to provide a perfected first priority security interest; or · any other event that occurs or circumstance that arises in light of which the lenders reasonably consider that there is a significant risk that we will be unable to discharge our liabilities under the credit facility, related security and guarantee documents or interest rate swap agreements. In addition, our credit facility prohibits the payment of dividends upon the occurrence of the following events, among others, and we anticipate that any future debt agreements will contain similar terms: · failure to pay any principal, interest, fees, expenses or other amounts when due; · failure to notify the lenders of any material oil spill or discharge of hazardous material, or of any action or claim related thereto; · breach or lapse of any insurance with respect to the vessels; · breach of certain financial or other covenants; 39 · failure to observe any other agreement, security instrument, obligation or covenant beyond specified cure periods in certain cases; · default under other indebtedness; · bankruptcy or insolvency events; · failure of any representation or warranty to be materially correct; · a change of control, as defined in the applicable agreement; and · a material adverse effect, as defined in the applicable agreement. We anticipate that any subsequent refinancing of our current debt or any new debt could have similar or more onerous restrictions on our operations generally or our ability to pay dividends. For more information regarding our financing arrangements, please read “Item 5B: Liquidity and Capital Resources” below. Our executive officers and the officers of our Manager do not devote all of their time to our business, which may hinder our ability to operate successfully. Our executive officers and the officers of our Manager are involved in other Capital Maritime business activities, which can result in their spending less time than is appropriate or necessary to manage our business successfully. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. In addition, the amount of time our officers allocate among our business and the businesses of Capital Maritime varies significantly from time to time depending on various circumstances and needs of the businesses, such as the relative levels of strategic activities of the businesses. There are no formal requirements or guidelines for the allocation of our officers’ time between our business and Capital Maritime’s. Our Manager may favor its and its affiliates’ interests in certain matters that may conflict with our own and we may lose business opportunities to our Manager that may otherwise be available to us. Conflicts of interest may arise between Capital Maritime, our Manager, and its affiliates, on the one hand, and us and our shareholders, on the other hand. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: · The Business Opportunities Agreement specifies that Capital Maritime must only inform us of certain spot, period and bareboat charter opportunities, certain vessel acquisition opportunities and certain other business opportunities that we would be capable of pursuing. We have a limited time to exercise our right to pursue such opportunities before Capital Maritime can take advantage of such opportunities. The time period to take advantage of such opportunities can be 48 hours, 120 hours, 192 hours or a reasonable time in light of the circumstances, depending on the opportunity. See “Related-Party Transactions—Business Opportunity Agreement” for more information. · Our Manager advises our board of directors about the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuances of additional common stock, acquisition of or mergers with other companies and cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. 40 · Our executive officers and certain of our directors also serve as officers or directors of our Manager or its affiliates and such officers and directors do not spend all of their time on matters related to our business. · Our Manager advises us of costs incurred by it and its affiliates that it believes are reimbursable by us. As a result of these conflicts, our Manager may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over our interests and those of our shareholders, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Our directors and officers that also hold positions with our Manager may have conflicts of interest with respect to business opportunities and other matters involving both companies. Our officers and directors have fiduciary duties to manage our business in a manner beneficial to us and our shareholders. However, our executive officers and certain of our directors also currently serve as executive officers or directors of Capital Maritime or its affiliates, and as a result, these individuals also have fiduciary duties to manage the business of Capital Maritime and its affiliates in a manner beneficial to such entities and their shareholders. Consequently, these officers and directors may encounter situations in which our interests and those of Capital Maritime and its affiliates conflict. We believe the principal situations in which these conflicts may occur are in the allocation of business opportunities to Capital Maritime or us, particularly with respect to the allocation of chartering or vessel purchase opportunities. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and the Business Opportunities Agreement anticipate the possibility of such a conflict and define the conduct of certain of our affairs as it pertains to such conflicts. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and the Business Opportunities Agreement specify that we will have a right to take advantage of certain business opportunities (including certain spot charter, period charter, bareboat charter and vessel purchase opportunities) within a limited time period, after which Capital Maritime will have the right to take advantage of any such opportunities for its own account. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our shareholders and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Our Manager has rights to terminate the Management Agreement and, under certain circumstances, could receive substantial sums in connection with such termination; however, even if our board of directors or our shareholders are dissatisfied with our Manager, there are limited circumstances under which we can terminate the Management Agreement. The Management Agreement has an initial term of approximately 10 years and will automatically renew for subsequent five-year terms provided that certain conditions are met. Our Manager has the right, after five years following the completion of our initial public offering in March 2010, to terminate the Management Agreement with 6 months’ notice. Our Manager also has the right to terminate the Management Agreement if we have materially breached the Management Agreement. Our Manager may elect to terminate the Management Agreement upon the sale of all or substantially all of our assets to a third party, our liquidation or after any change of control of our company occurs. If our Manager elects to terminate the Management Agreement, in accordance with the terms of the agreement a termination payment, which could be substantial, will be payable to the Manager. This termination payment was initially set at $9.0 million and increases on each one-year anniversary during which the Management Agreement remains in effect (on a compound basis) in accordance with the total percentage increase, if any, in the Consumer Price Index over the immediately 41 preceding twelve months. As of March 18, 2011, the amount of the termination payment has increased to $9.2 million. In addition, our rights to terminate the Management Agreement are limited. Even if we are not satisfied with the Manager’s efforts in managing our business, unless our Manager materially breaches the agreement, we may terminate the Management Agreement only if we provide notice of termination in the fourth quarter of 2019, which termination would be effective December 31, 2020. If we elect to terminate the Management Agreement at either of these points or at the end of a subsequent renewal term, our Manager will receive a termination fee, which may be substantial. Please read “Item 7B: Related-Party Transactions” for a more detailed description of termination rights and the termination payment under the Management Agreement. We depend on Capital Maritime to assist us in operating our business and competing in our markets, and our business will be harmed if Capital Maritime fails to assist us effectively. Pursuant to the Management Agreement, Capital Maritime provides to us commercial, technical, administrative, investor relations and strategic services, including vessel chartering, vessel sale and purchase, vessel operation, vessel maintenance, obtaining appropriate insurance, regulatory (including safety and environmental regulation) compliance, vetting and classification society compliance, purchasing, crewing, strategic planning and advice, and advice on financings, acquisitions, mergers and dispositions. Our operational success and ability to execute our growth strategy will depend significantly upon the satisfactory performance of these services by Capital Maritime. Capital Maritime has not exclusively managed crude tanker vessels; instead, while it has predominately managed product and crude tanker vessels, it also has managed a variety of other vessel types. Furthermore, Capital Maritime’s past performance may not be indicative of their future performance on our behalf. Our business will be harmed if Capital Maritime fails to perform these services satisfactorily, if it stops providing these services to us for any reason or if it terminates the Management Agreement, as it is entitled to do under certain circumstances. The circumstances under which we are able to terminate the Management Agreement are extremely limited and do not include mere dissatisfaction with our Manager’s performance. In addition, upon any termination of the Management Agreement, we may lose our ability to benefit from economies of scale in purchasing supplies and other advantages that we believe our relationship with Capital Maritime will provide. If Capital Maritime suffers material damage to its reputation or relationships, it may harm our ability to: · acquire new vessels; · enter into new charters for our vessels or extend current charters; · obtain financing on commercially acceptable terms; · issue new equity; or · maintain satisfactory relationships with charterers, suppliers and other third parties. If our ability to do any of the things described above is impaired, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. 42 Our Manager is a privately held company and there is little publicly available information about it. The ability of our Manager to continue providing services for our benefit will depend in part on its own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair our Manager’s financial strength, and because it is a privately held company, little or no information about its financial strength is publicly available. As a result, an investor in our common stock might have little advance warning of problems affecting our Manager, even though these problems could have a material adverse effect on us. An increase in voyage and operating costs could adversely affect our cash flows and financial condition. Under the Management Agreement, we must pay for vessel operating expenses (including crewing, repairs and maintenance, insurance, stores, lube oils and communication expenses), and, for spot or voyage charters, voyage expenses (including bunker fuel expenses, port fees, cargo loading and unloading expenses, canal tolls, agency fees and conversions). These expenses depend upon a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our or our Manager’s control. Some of these costs, primarily relating to fuel, insurance and enhanced security measures, have been increasing and may increase in the future. Increases in any of these costs would decrease our earnings, cash flows and the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our cash flows and financial condition. We currently do not enter into swap agreements to hedge our exposure to interest rate fluctuations under our credit facility. An increase in interest rates would cause a corresponding increase in interest rate expense and would decrease our earnings, cash flows and the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Our purchasing and operating previously owned vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings. Our current business strategy includes growth through the acquisition of previously owned vessels. While we typically inspect previously owned vessels before purchase, this does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Accordingly, we may not discover defects or other problems with such vessels before purchase. Any such hidden defects or problems, when detected, may be expensive to repair, and, if not detected, may result in accidents or other incidents for which we may become liable to third parties. Also, when purchasing previously owned vessels, we do not receive the benefit of any builder warranties if the vessels we buy are older than one year. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Governmental regulations, safety and other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to some of our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which these vessels may engage. As our vessels age, market conditions may not justify those expenditures and may prevent us from operating our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. As a result, regulations and standards could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. 43 Our Manager may elect to subcontract the technical management of our fleet to third party managers. Any failure of these technical managers to perform their obligations to us could adversely affect our business. Our Manager may elect to subcontract part or all of the services of the technical management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair services, to third-party technical management companies. The failure of these technical managers to perform their obligations could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Although we may have rights against our third-party managers if they default on their obligations, our shareholders will share that recourse only indirectly to the extent that we recover funds. In the highly competitive international tanker shipping industry, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources. We employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, including oil majors, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of crude oil can be intense and depends on the offered charter rate, the location, technical specification, quality of the vessel and the reputation of the vessel’s manager. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions that may be able to offer better prices and fleets than we are able to offer. We maintain all of our cash with a limited number of financial institutions, including financial institutions located in Greece, which subjects us to credit risk. We maintain all of our cash with a limited number of reputable financial institutions, including institutions located in Greece. These financial institutions located in Greece may be subsidiaries of international banks or Greek financial institutions. These balances may not be covered by insurance in the event of default by these financial institutions. The occurrence of such a default could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are a holding company, and we will depend on the ability of our future subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations or to make dividend payments. We are a holding company, and our subsidiaries, which are all wholly owned by us either directly or indirectly, conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our wholly owned subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to satisfy our financial obligations and to pay dividends to our shareholders depends on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us. In turn, the ability of our subsidiaries to make dividend payments to us depends on them having profits available for distribution. To the extent that we are unable to obtain dividends from our subsidiaries, this will limit the discretion of our board of directors to pay or recommend the payment of dividends. Our ability to pay dividends on a quarterly basis will be affected by the amount of reserves our Board of Directors elects to make each quarter. Dividends will be paid equally on a per-share basis between our common stock and our Class B stock. Cash available for distribution represents net income earned during the previous quarter plus depreciation and amortization and other non cash items less income attributable to the historical results of vessels acquired by the company from Capital Maritime, our Manager and less any amount required to maintain a reserve that our board of directors determines from time to time is appropriate for the 44 operation and future growth of our fleet, taking into account (among other factors) contingent liabilities, the terms of any credit facilities we may enter into, our other cash needs (including without limitation reserves for acquisitions of vessels, drydocking, special surveys, repairs, claims, liabilities and other obligations, debt amortization and acquisitions of additional assets) and the requirements of the laws of the Republic of The Marshall Islands. The level of reserves in any quarter is determined by our board of directors in its sole discretion. Any changes to the amount of reserves may decrease the amount of cash available for distribution. If management is unable to provide reports as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with unqualified attestation reports as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”), after we file this Annual Report for our initial fiscal year, we will be required to include in each of our subsequent future annual reports on Form 20-F a report containing our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a related attestation of our independent registered public accounting firm. As our manager, Capital Maritime will provide substantially all of our financial reporting, and we will depend on the procedures they have in place. If, in such future annual reports on Form 20-F, our management cannot provide a report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified attestation report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Our costs of operating as a public company are significant, and our management is required to devote substantial time to complying with public company regulations. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, Sarbanes-Oxley, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”), have imposed various requirements on public companies, including changes in corporate governance practices, and these requirements will continue to evolve. Our Manager, management personnel, and other personnel, if any, devote a substantial amount of time to comply with these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made some activities more time-consuming and costly. As a publicly traded entity, we are required to comply with the SEC’s reporting requirements and with corporate governance and related requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley, the SEC and the NYSE, on which our common shares are listed. Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley requires that, after we file this Annual Report for our initial fiscal year, we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis. If we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we may not detect errors on a timely basis and our financial statements may be materially misstated. While we expect to follow Capital Maritime’s model and systems for compliance with Section 404, we will be required to dedicate a significant amount of time and resources to ensure compliance with the regulatory requirements of Section 404. We will work with our legal, accounting and financial advisors to identify any areas in which changes should be made to our financial and management control systems to manage our growth and our obligations as a public company. However, these and other measures we may take may not be sufficient to allow us to satisfy our obligations as a public company on a timely and reliable basis. We expect to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses in complying with these and other applicable regulations. We anticipate that our incremental 45 general and administrative expenses as a publicly traded company will include costs associated with annual reports to shareholders, tax returns, investor relations, registrar and transfer agent’s fees, incremental director and officer liability insurance costs and director compensation. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively affect the effectiveness of our management and our results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team and our ability to hire and retain key members of our management team. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. We do not intend to maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our officers. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us if we lose our vessels or to compensate third parties. There are a number of risks associated with the operation of ocean-going vessels, including mechanical failure, collision, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, property loss, cargo loss or damage and business interruption due to political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities and labor strikes. Any of these events may result in loss of revenues, increased costs and decreased cash flows. In addition, the operation of any vessel is subject to the inherent possibility of marine disaster, including oil spills and other environmental mishaps, and the liabilities arising from owning and operating vessels in international trade. We intend to insure vessels we acquire against tort claims and some contractual claims (including claims related to environmental damage and pollution) through memberships in protection and indemnity associations or clubs (“P&I Associations”). As a result of such membership, the P&I Associations will provide us coverage for such tort and contractual claims. We will also carry hull and machinery insurance and war risk insurance for our fleet. We plan to insure our vessels for third-party liability claims subject to and in accordance with the rules of the P&I Associations in which the vessels are entered. We can give no assurance that we will be adequately insured against all risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our fleet in the future. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies contain deductibles for which we will be responsible and limitations and exclusions which may increase our costs or lower our revenue. We do not currently maintain off-hire insurance, which would cover the loss of revenue during extended vessel off-hire periods, such as those that occur during an unscheduled drydocking due to damage to the vessel from accidents. Accordingly, any extended vessel off-hire, due to an accident or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. Any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. Certain of our insurance coverage is maintained through mutual protection and indemnity associations, and as a member of such associations we may be required to make additional payments over and above budgeted premiums if member claims exceed association reserves. We may not be able to renew our insurance policies on the same or commercially reasonable terms, or at all, in the future. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led in the past to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, protection and indemnity insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. In addition, our insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain of our actions, such as our 46 ships failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. Further, we cannot assure you that our insurance policies will cover all losses that we incur, or that disputes over insurance claims will not arise with our insurance carriers. Any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. In addition, our insurance policies are subject to limitations and exclusions, which may increase our costs or lower our revenues, thereby possibly having a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led in the past to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. A catastrophic oil spill or marine disaster could exceed our insurance coverage, which could harm our business, financial condition, cash flows, operating results and ability to pay dividends. In addition, certain of our vessels may be placed under bareboat charters. Under the terms of these charters, the charterer may provide for the insurance of the vessel and as a result these vessels may not be adequately insured and/or in some cases may be self-insured. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business, financial condition, cash flows, operating results and ability to pay dividends. In addition, our insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain of our actions, such as our ships failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may also make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. In addition, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing coverage. We will be subject to funding calls by our P&I Associations, and our P&I Associations may not have enough resources to cover claims made against them, resulting in potential unbudgeted supplementary liability to fund claims made upon us. We are indemnified for legal liabilities incurred while operating our vessels through membership in P&I Associations. P&I Associations are mutual insurance associations whose members must contribute proportionately to cover losses sustained by all the association’s members. The objective of a P&I Association is to provide mutual insurance based on the aggregate tonnage of a member’s vessels entered into the association. Claims are paid through the aggregate premiums of all members of the association, although members remain subject to calls for additional funds if the aggregate premiums are insufficient to cover claims submitted to the association. Claims submitted to the association may include those incurred by members of the association, as well as claims submitted to the association from other P&I Associations with which our P&I Association has entered into pooling agreements. The P&I Associations to which we belong may not remain viable and we may become subject to additional funding calls which could adversely affect us. We may have to pay United States federal income tax on U.S. source income, which would reduce our net income and cash flows. We believe that we and certain corporate subsidiaries qualify for an exemption pursuant to Section 883 of the Code (“Section 883”), and that we and these subsidiaries therefore are not to be subject to United States federal income tax on our shipping income that is derived from U.S. sources, as described below. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us or any of these subsidiaries to lose the benefit of this tax exemption. Therefore, we can give no assurances on this matter. If we or any of these subsidiaries were not to qualify for the exemption under Section 883, 50% of our or such subsidiary’s gross shipping income attributable to transportation beginning or ending in the United 47 States will be subject to a 4% tax without allowance for deductions. See “United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Exemption of Operating Income from United States Federal Income Taxation.” U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. A foreign corporation generally will be treated as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for United States federal income tax purposes if either (a) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of “passive income” or (b) at least 50% of its assets (averaged over the year and generally determined based upon value) produce or are held for the production of “passive income.” U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous United States federal income tax regime with respect to distributions they receive from the PFIC and gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their stock in the PFIC. For purposes of these tests, “passive income” generally includes dividends, interest, gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business, as defined in applicable Treasury regulations. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” By contrast, rental income would generally constitute passive income unless we were treated under specific rules as deriving our rental income in the active conduct of a trade or business. Based on our planned operations and certain estimates of our gross income and gross assets, we do not believe that we will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our spot chartering and time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that (a) our income from our spot chartering and time chartering activities does not constitute passive income and (b) the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation. Moreover, in a case not concerning PFICs, Tidewater Inc. v. United States, 565 F.3d 299 (5th Cir. 2009), the Fifth Circuit held that a vessel time charter at issue generated predominantly rental income rather than services income. However, the court’s ruling was contrary to the position of the IRS that the time charter income at issue should have been treated as services income. Additionally, the IRS recently affirmed its position in Tidewater, adding further that the vessel charters at issue would be treated as giving rise to services income under the PFIC rules. Moreover, Tidewater analyzed time charters, while we anticipate that a significant portion of our income will be generated from spot charters. No assurance, however, can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, because there are uncertainties in the application of the PFIC rules, because the PFIC test is an annual test, and because, although we intend to manage our business so as to avoid PFIC status to the extent consistent with our other business goals, there could be changes in the nature and extent of our operations in future years, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in any taxable year. If we were to be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year (and regardless of whether we remain a PFIC for subsequent taxable years), our U.S. shareholders would face adverse U.S. tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless a shareholder makes certain elections available under the Code (which elections could themselves have adverse consequences for such shareholder, as discussed under the section captioned “United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—United States Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders—Passive Foreign Investment Company Status and Significant Tax 48 Consequences”, such shareholder would be liable to pay United States federal income tax at the highest applicable income tax rates on ordinary income upon the receipt of excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common stock, plus interest on such amounts, as if such excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder’s holding period of our common stock. See the section captioned “United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—United States Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders—Passive Foreign Investment Company Status and Significant Tax Consequences” for a more comprehensive discussion of the United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders if we are treated as a PFIC. Because we will generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but incur a portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could hurt our results of operations. We will generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars, but we may incur certain administrative, operating and/or drydocking costs and special survey fees in other currencies. If our expenditures on such costs and fees were significant, and the U.S. dollar were weak against such currencies, our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends could be adversely affected. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE The concentration of our capital stock ownership with Crude Carriers Investments Corp. and its affiliates and the superior voting rights of our Class B stock held by Crude Carriers Investments Corp. limits our common stock holders’ ability to influence corporate matters. Under our amended and restated articles of incorporation, our Class B stock has 10 votes per share, and our common stock has one vote per share, resulting in Crude Carriers Investments Corp. controlling in excess of 50% of the combined voting power of these two classes of stock but for the limit on the voting power of the Class B stock held by it and its affiliates to an aggregate maximum of 49% of the combined voting power of our common stock and Class B stock. Therefore, Crude Carriers Investments Corp. owns shares of Class B stock representing 49% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. In addition, members of our board of directors or our management team who are affiliated with Capital Maritime, a related party to Crude Carriers Investments Corp., or other individuals providing services under the Management Agreement who are affiliated with Capital Maritime, have received and may in the future receive equity awards under our 2010 Equity Incentive Plan. Through its ownership of our Class B stock and its relation to our Manager, Crude Carriers Investments Corp. has substantial control and influence over our management and affairs and over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets, for the foreseeable future. In addition, because of this dual-class stock structure, Crude Carriers Investments Corp. continues to be able to control all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval even though it owns significantly less than 50% of the aggregate number of outstanding shares of our common stock and Class B stock. This concentrated control limits our common stock holders’ ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our common stock holders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. The voting rights of certain shareholders owning 5% or more of our common stock are restricted. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation restrict Common Share holders’ voting rights by providing that if any person or group, other than Crude Carriers Investments Corp., owns beneficially 5% or more of the common stock then outstanding, then any such common stock owned by that person or 49 group in excess of 4.9% may not be voted on any matter. The voting rights of any such common stock holders in excess of 4.9% will be redistributed pro rata among the other common stock holders holding less than 5.0% of the common stock. Because we are a foreign corporation, you may not have the same rights or protections that a shareholder in a United States corporation may have. We are incorporated in the Republic of The Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law and may make it more difficult for our shareholders to protect their interests. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated articles of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act (“BCA”). The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain U.S. jurisdictions and there have been few judicial cases in the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. Provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have anti-takeover effects which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Several provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, which are summarized below, may have anti-takeover effects. These provisions are intended to avoid costly takeover battles, lessen our vulnerability to a hostile change of control and enhance the ability of our board of directors to maximize shareholder value in connection with any unsolicited offer to acquire our company. However, these anti-takeover provisions could also discourage, delay or prevent (a) the merger or acquisition of our company by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise that a shareholder may consider in its best interest and (b) the removal of incumbent officers and directors. Dual Class Stock. Our dual class stock structure, which consists of common stock and Class B stock, gives Crude Carriers Investments Corp. and its affiliates a significant degree of control over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. The extent of this control is diminished because the aggregate voting power of the Class B stock held by Crude Carriers Investments Corp. and its affiliates is limited to an aggregate maximum of 49% of the combined voting power of our outstanding common stock and Class B stock. Nevertheless, this concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that other shareholders may view as beneficial. Blank Check Preferred Stock. Under the terms of our amended and restated articles of incorporation, our board of directors has authority, without any further vote or action by our shareholders, to issue up to 100 million shares of “blank check” preferred stock. Our board could authorize the issuance of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could dilute the voting power or rights of the holders of common stock. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could, among other things, have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us or the removal of our management and might harm the market price of our common stock. We have no current plans to issue any shares of preferred stock. 50 Classified Board of Directors. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation provide for the division of our board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class as nearly equal in number as possible, serving staggered, three-year terms beginning upon the expiration of the initial term for each class. Approximately one-third of our board of directors is elected each year. This classified board provision could discourage a third party from making a tender offer for our shares or attempting to obtain control of us. It could also delay shareholders who do not agree with the policies of our board of directors from removing a majority of our board of directors for up to two years. Election and Removal of Directors. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation do not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors. Our amended and restated bylaws require parties other than the board of directors to give advance written notice of nominations for the election of directors. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation also provide that our directors may be removed only for cause upon the affirmative vote of 662/3% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote for those directors or by a majority of the members of the board of directors then in office. These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent the removal of incumbent officers and directors. Limited Actions by Shareholders. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws provide that any action required or permitted to be taken by our shareholders must be effected at an annual or special meeting of shareholders or as otherwise permitted by the BCA. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws provide that, subject to certain exceptions, our Chairman or Chief Executive Officer, in either case at the direction of the board of directors, may call special meetings of our shareholders and the business transacted at the special meeting is limited to the purposes stated in the notice. Advance Notice Requirements for Shareholder Proposals and Director Nominations. Our amended and restated bylaws provide that shareholders seeking to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of their proposal in writing to the corporate secretary. Generally, to be timely, a shareholder’s notice must be received at our principal executive offices not less than 90 days or more than 120 days before the date on which we first mailed our proxy materials for the preceding year’s annual meeting. Our amended and restated bylaws also specify requirements as to the form and content of a shareholder’s notice. These provisions may impede a shareholder’s ability to bring matters before an annual meeting of shareholders or make nominations for directors at an annual meeting of shareholders. Bylaw Amendments. Our amended and restated bylaws may only be repealed or amended by a vote of 662/3% or more of the total voting power of our outstanding capital stock. In light of the voting rights of our Class B stock, any amendment of our bylaws will likely require the approval of Crude Carriers Investment Corp. It may not be possible for our investors to enforce U.S. judgments against us. We are incorporated in the Republic of The Marshall Islands, and we expect most of our future subsidiaries will also be organized in the Marshall Islands. We expect that substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries will be located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for United States shareholders to serve process within the United States upon us or to enforce judgment upon us for civil liabilities in United States courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we are incorporated or where our assets are located (a) would enforce judgments of United States courts obtained in actions against us based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable United States federal and state securities laws or (b) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us based upon these laws. 51 Future sales of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The market price of our common stock could decline due to sales of a large number of shares in the market, including sales of shares by our large shareholders, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales could also make it more difficult or impossible for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. We have entered into a registration rights agreement with Crude Carriers Investments Corp. pursuant to which we granted Crude Carriers Investments Corp. certain registration rights with respect to our common stock and Class B stock owned by them. As a key component of our business strategy, we intend to issue additional shares of common stock or other securities to finance our growth. These issuances, which would generally not be subject to shareholder approval, will dilute your ownership interests and may depress the market price of the common stock We plan to finance potential future expansions of our fleet and repayment of our outstanding indebtedness primarily through equity financing and internally-generated cash flow. Therefore, subject to the rules of the NYSE, we plan to issue additional shares of common stock, and other equity securities of equal or senior rank, without shareholder approval, in a number of circumstances from time to time. The issuance by us of shares of common stock or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: · Our existing shareholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease. · The amount of cash available for distribution as dividends payable on our common stock may decrease. · The relative voting strength of each previously outstanding share may be diminished. · The market price of our common stock may decline. In addition, if we issue shares of our common stock in a future offering at a price per share lower than the price per share in this offering, it will be dilutive to purchasers of common stock in this offering. Increases in interest rates may cause the market price of our shares to decline. An increase in interest rates may cause a corresponding decline in demand for equity investments in general, and in particular for yield based equity investments such as our shares. Any such increase in interest rates or reduction in demand for our shares resulting from other relatively more attractive investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our shares to decline. If the stock price of our common stock fluctuates, you could lose a significant part of your investment. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, many of which are beyond our control, including those described elsewhere in these risks factors and the following: · the failure of securities analysts to publish research about us after this offering, or analysts making changes in their financial estimates; 52 · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions or capital commitments; · variations in quarterly operating results; · general economic conditions; · terrorist acts; · future sales of our common stock or other securities; and · investors’ perception of us and the tanker shipping industry. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. 