ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business faces many risks. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the other information in this report, including the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements. We cannot assure you that any of the events discussed in the risk factors below will not occur. These risks could have a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We service industries that are highly cyclical, and any downturn in our customers’ industries could reduce our sales and profitability. The economic downturn has reduced demand for our products and may continue to reduce demand until an economic recovery. Many of our products are sold to industries that experience significant fluctuations in demand based on economic conditions, energy prices, seasonality, consumer demand and other factors beyond our control. These industries include manufacturing, electrical products and transportation. We do not expect the cyclical nature of our industry to change. The U.S. economy entered an economic recession in December 2007, which spread to many global markets in 2008 and 2009 and affected Ryerson and other metals service centers. Beginning in late 2008 and continuing through 2010, the metals industry, including Ryerson and other service centers, felt additional effects of the global economic crisis and recovery thereto and the impact of the credit market disruption. These events contributed to a rapid decline in both demand for our products and pricing levels for those products. The Company has implemented a number of actions to conserve cash, reduce costs and strengthen its competitiveness, including curtailing non-critical capital expenditures, initiating headcount reductions and reductions of certain employee benefits, among other actions. However, there can be no assurance that these actions, or any others that the Company may take in response to further deterioration in economic and financial conditions, will be sufficient. The volatility of the market could result in a material impairment of goodwill. We evaluate goodwill on an annual basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment. Events or changes in circumstances that could trigger an impairment review include significant underperformance relative to our historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner or the use of our assets or the strategy for our overall business, and significant negative industry or economic trends. We test for impairment of goodwill by calculating the fair value of a reporting unit using an income approach based on discounted future cash flows. Under this method, the fair value of each reporting unit is estimated based on expected future economic benefits discounted to a present value at a rate of return commensurate with the risk associated with the investment. Projected cash flows are discounted to present value using an estimated weighted average cost of capital, which considers both returns to equity and debt investors. The income approach is subject to a comparison for reasonableness to a market approach at the date of valuation. Significant changes in any one of the assumptions made as part of our analysis, which could occur as a result of actual events, or further declines in the market conditions for our products, could significantly impact our impairment analysis. An impairment charge, if incurred, could be material. The global financial and banking crises have caused a lack of credit availability that has limited and may continue to limit the ability of our customers to purchase our products or to pay us in a timely manner. In climates of global financial and banking crises, such as those from which we are currently recovering, the ability of our customers to maintain credit availability has become more challenging. In particular, the financial viability of many of our customers is threatened, which may impact their ability to pay us amounts due, further affecting our financial condition and results of operations. The metals distribution business is very competitive and increased competition could reduce our gross margins and net income. The principal markets that we serve are highly competitive. The metals distribution industry is fragmented and competitive, consisting of a large number of small companies and a few relatively large companies. Competition is based principally on price, service, quality, production capabilities, inventory availability and timely delivery. Competition in the various markets in which we participate comes from companies of various sizes, some of which have greater financial resources than we have and some of which have more established brand names in the local markets served by us. Increased competition could force us to lower our prices or to offer increased services at a higher cost, which could reduce our profitability. 8 Table of Contents The economic downturn has reduced metals prices. Though prices have risen since the onset of the economic downturn, we cannot assure you that prices will continue to rise. Changing metals prices may have a significant impact on our liquidity, net sales, gross margins, operating income and net income. The metals industry as a whole is cyclical and, at times, pricing and availability of metal can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control, including general domestic and international economic conditions, labor costs, sales levels, competition, levels of inventory held by other metals service centers, consolidation of metals producers, higher raw material costs for the producers of metals, import duties and tariffs and currency exchange rates. This volatility can significantly affect the availability and cost of materials for us. We, like many other metals service centers, maintain substantial inventories of metal to accommodate the short lead times and just-in-time delivery requirements of our customers. Accordingly, we purchase metals in an effort to maintain our inventory at levels that we believe to be appropriate to satisfy the anticipated needs of our customers based upon historic buying practices, contracts with customers and market conditions. When metals prices decline, as they did in 2008 and 2009, customer demands for lower prices and our competitors’ responses to those demands could result in lower sale prices and, consequently, lower margins as we use existing metals inventory. Notwithstanding recent price increases, metals prices may decline in 2011, and declines in those prices or further reductions in sales volumes could adversely impact our ability to maintain our liquidity and to remain in compliance with certain financial covenants under Ryerson’s $1.35 billion revolving credit facility agreement that matures on the earliest of (a) March 14, 2016, (b) the date that occurs 90 days prior to the scheduled maturity date of the 2014 Notes, if the 2014 Notes are then outstanding and (c) the date that occurs 90 days prior to the scheduled maturity date of the 2015 Notes, if the 2015 Notes are then outstanding (as amended, the “Ryerson Credit Facility”), as well as result in us incurring inventory or goodwill impairment charges. Changing metals prices therefore could significantly impact our liquidity, net sales, gross margins, operating income and net income. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from fulfilling our financial obligations. We currently have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2010, our total indebtedness was approximately $1,211 million. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. As of December 31, 2010, Ryerson had approximately $317 million of unused capacity under the Ryerson Credit Facility. Our substantial indebtedness may: • make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on our outstanding notes and our other indebtedness; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes; • limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; • require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; • limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and • increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the indentures governing our outstanding notes restrict but do not prohibit us from doing so. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. The covenants in the 14 1/2% Senior Discount Notes due 2015 (“Ryerson Holding Notes”), Ryerson Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Ryerson Notes impose, and covenants contained in agreements governing indebtedness Ryerson Holding incurs in the future may impose, restrictions that may limit Ryerson Holding’s operating and financial flexibility. The Ryerson Holding Note Indenture contains a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock; • make certain investments or other restricted payments; • create liens or use assets as security in other transactions; • merge, consolidate or transfer or dispose of substantially all of our assets; and • engage in transactions with affiliates. 9 Table of Contents The Ryerson Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Ryerson Notes also contain restrictions and covenants that limit the ability of Ryerson and the ability of its restricted subsidiaries to do the acts mentioned above. Additionally, our future indebtedness may contain covenants more restrictive in certain respects than the restrictions contained in the Ryerson Credit Facility and the indentures governing the Ryerson Holding Notes and the Ryerson Notes. Operating results below current levels or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in our being unable to comply with financial covenants that are contained in the Ryerson Credit Facility or that may be contained in any future indebtedness. Complying with these covenants may also cause Ryerson Holding to take actions that are not favorable to holders of the notes and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions. The terms of the Ryerson Credit Facility require that, in the event availability under the facility declines to a certain level, Ryerson maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio at the end of each fiscal quarter. Total credit availability is limited by the amount of eligible accounts receivable and inventory pledged as collateral under the agreement insofar as Ryerson is subject to a borrowing base comprised of the aggregate of these two amounts, less applicable reserves. As of December 31, 2010, total credit availability was $317 million based upon eligible accounts receivable and inventory pledged as collateral. Additionally, subject to certain exceptions, the indenture governing the Ryerson Notes restricts Ryerson’s ability to pay us dividends to the extent of 50% of future net income, once prior losses are offset. Future net income is defined in the indenture governing the notes as net income adjusted for, among other things, the inclusion of dividends from joint ventures actually received in cash by Ryerson, and the exclusion of: (i) all extraordinary gains or losses; (ii) a certain portion of net income allocable to minority interest in unconsolidated persons or investments in unrestricted subsidiaries; (iii) gains or losses in respect of any asset sale on an after tax basis; (iv) the net income from any disposed or discontinued operations or any net gains or losses on disposed or discontinued operations, on an after-tax basis; (v) any gain or loss realized as a result of the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles; (vi) any fees and expenses paid in connection with the issuance of Ryerson’s notes; (vii) non-cash compensation expense incurred with any issuance of equity interest to an employee; and (viii) any net after-tax gains or losses attributable to the early extinguishment of debt. Our future indebtedness may contain covenants more restrictive in certain respects than the restrictions contained in the Ryerson Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Ryerson Holding notes. Operating results below current levels or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in our being unable to comply with financial covenants that are contained in the Ryerson Credit Facility or that may be contained in any future indebtedness. If our indebtedness is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to holders of the notes and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our outstanding notes, the Ryerson Credit Facility and our other outstanding indebtedness are expected to account for significant cash interest expenses. Accordingly, we will have to generate significant cash flows from operations to meet our debt service requirements. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service and working capital requirements, we may be required to sell assets, seek additional capital, reduce capital expenditures, restructure or refinance all or a portion of our existing indebtedness, or seek additional financing. Moreover, insufficient cash flow may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Furthermore, Platinum has no obligation to provide us with debt or equity financing and we therefore may be unable to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness. Because a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at rates that fluctuate with changes in certain prevailing short-term interest rates, we are vulnerable to interest rate increases. A substantial portion of our indebtedness, including the Ryerson Credit Facility and the 2014 Notes, bears interest at rates that fluctuate with changes in certain short-term prevailing interest rates. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $102.9 million of the 2014 Notes and approximately $457.3 million of outstanding borrowings under the Ryerson Credit Facility, with an additional $317 million available for borrowing under such facility. Assuming a consistent level of debt, a 100 basis point change in the interest rate on our floating rate debt effective from the beginning of the year would increase or decrease our fiscal 2010 interest expense under the Ryerson Credit Facility and the 2014 Notes by approximately $4.7 million on an annual basis. We use derivative financial instruments to manage a portion of the potential impact of our interest rate risk. To some extent, derivative financial instruments can protect against increases in interest rates, but they do not provide complete protection over the long term. If interest rates increase dramatically, we could be unable to service our debt which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may not be able to successfully consummate and complete the integration of future acquisitions, and if we are unable to do so, we may be unable to increase our growth rates. We have grown through a combination of internal expansion, acquisitions and joint ventures. We intend to continue to grow through selective acquisitions, but we may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, obtain financing on satisfactory 10 Table of Contents terms, consummate acquisitions or integrate acquired businesses effectively and profitably into our existing operations. Restrictions contained in the agreements governing our notes, the Ryerson Credit Facility or our other existing or future debt may also inhibit our ability to make certain investments, including acquisitions and participations in joint ventures. Our future success will depend on our ability to complete the integration of these future acquisitions successfully into our operations. After any acquisition, customers may choose to diversify their supply chains to reduce reliance on a single supplier for a portion of their metals needs. We may not be able to retain all of our and an acquisition’s customers, which may adversely affect our business and sales. Integrating acquisitions, particularly large acquisitions, requires us to enhance our operational and financial systems and employ additional qualified personnel, management and financial resources, and may adversely affect our business by diverting management away from day-to-day operations. Further, failure to successfully integrate acquisitions may adversely affect our profitability by creating significant operating inefficiencies that could increase our operating expenses as a percentage of sales and reduce our operating income. In addition, we may not realize expected cost savings from acquisitions, which may also adversely affect our profitability. We may not be able to retain or expand our customer base if the North American manufacturing industry continues to erode through moving offshore or through acquisition and merger or consolidation activity in our customers’ industries. Our customer base primarily includes manufacturing and industrial firms. Some of our customers operate in industries that are undergoing consolidation through acquisition and merger activity; some are considering or have considered relocating production operations overseas or outsourcing particular functions overseas; and some customers have closed as they were unable to compete successfully with overseas competitors. Our facilities are predominately located in the United States and Canada. To the extent that our customers cease U.S. operations, relocate or move operations overseas to regions in which we do not have a presence, we could lose their business. Acquirers of manufacturing and industrial firms may have suppliers of choice that do not include us, which could impact our customer base and market share. Certain of our operations are located outside of the United States, which subjects us to risks associated with international activities. Certain of our operations are located outside of the United States, primarily in Canada, Mexico and China. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making corrupt payments or otherwise corruptly giving any other thing of value to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment, and requires companies to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices. The FCPA applies to covered companies, individual directors, officers, employees and agents. Under the FCPA, U.S. companies may be held liable for some actions taken by strategic or local partners or representatives. If we or our intermediaries fail to comply with the requirements of the FCPA, governmental authorities in the United States could seek to impose civil and/or criminal penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial conditions and cash flows. Operating results may experience seasonal fluctuations. A portion of our customers experience seasonal slowdowns. Our sales in the months of July, November and December traditionally have been lower than in other months because of a reduced number of shipping days and holiday or vacation closures for some customers. Consequently, our sales in the first two quarters of the year are usually higher than in the third and fourth quarters. Damage to our information technology infrastructure could harm our business. The unavailability of any of our computer-based systems for any significant period of time could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In particular, our ability to manage inventory levels successfully largely depends on the efficient operation of our computer hardware and software systems. We use management information systems to track inventory information at individual facilities, communicate customer information and aggregate daily sales, margin and promotional information. Difficulties associated with upgrades, installations of major software or hardware, and integration with new systems could have a material adverse effect on results of operations. We will be required to expend substantial resources to integrate our information systems with the systems of companies we have acquired. The integration of these systems may disrupt our business or lead to operating inefficiencies. In addition, these systems are vulnerable to, among other things, damage or interruption from fire, flood, tornado and other natural disasters, power loss, computer system and network failures, operator negligence, physical and electronic loss of data, or security breaches and computer viruses. Any significant work stoppages can harm our business. As of December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 3,600 persons in North America and 600 persons in China. Our North American workforce was comprised of approximately 1,800 office employees and approximately 1,800 plant employees. Forty percent of our plant employees were members of various unions, including the United Steel Workers and the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. Our relationship with the various unions has generally been good. There has been one work stoppage over the last five years. On January 31, 2006, the agreement with the then joint United Steelworkers and the International Brotherhood of Teamsters unions, which represented approximately 540 employees at three Chicago area facilities, expired. The membership of the 11 Table of Contents joint unions representing the Chicago-area employees initiated a week-long strike on March 6, 2006. On July 9, 2006, the joint United Steelworkers and Teamster unions representing the Chicago-area employees ratified a three-year collective bargaining agreement, lasting through March 31, 2009. Six collective bargaining agreements expired in 2008, a year in which we reached agreement on the renewal of four contracts covering 53 employees. Two contracts covering 52 employees were extended into 2009. We reached agreement in 2009 on one of the extended contracts covering 45 employees and the single remaining contract from 2008, covering approximately five persons, remains on an extension. In addition, negotiations over a new collective bargaining agreement at a newly certified location employing four persons began in late 2008 and concluded in 2009. Nine contracts covering 339 persons were scheduled to expire in 2009. We reached agreement on the renewal of eight contracts covering approximately 258 persons and one contract covering approximately 81 persons was extended. During 2010, the parties to this extended contract covering two Chicago area facilities agreed to sever the bargaining unit between the two facilities and bargaining was concluded for one facility which covers approximately 50 employees. This new contract expires on December 31, 2011. The other facility’s contract which covers approximately 31 employees remains on extension. Seven contracts covering approximately 85 persons were scheduled to expire in 2010. We reached agreement on the renewal of all seven contracts. Ten contracts covering approximately 293 persons are scheduled to expire in 2011. One of these contracts which covers 50 employees will not be renewed due to facility closure. We may not be able to negotiate extensions of these agreements or new agreements prior to their expiration date. As a result, we may experience additional labor disruptions in the future. A widespread work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows if it were to last for a significant period of time. Certain employee retirement benefit plans are underfunded and the actual cost of those benefits could exceed current estimates, which would require us to fund the shortfall. As of December 31, 2010, our pension plan had an unfunded liability of $306 million. Our actual costs for benefits required to be paid may exceed those projected and future actuarial assessments to the extent those costs may exceed the current assessment. Under those circumstances, the adjustments required to be made to our recorded liability for these benefits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and cash payments to fund these plans could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows. We may be required to make substantial future contributions to improve the plan’s funded status, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Future funding for postretirement employee benefits other than pensions also may require substantial payments from current cash flow. We provide postretirement life insurance and medical benefits to eligible retired employees. Our unfunded postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2010 was $176 million. Our actual costs for benefits required to be paid may exceed those projected and future actuarial assessments to the extent those costs may exceed the current assessment. Under those circumstances, the adjustments required to be made to our recorded liability for these benefits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and cash payments to fund these plans could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows. Any prolonged disruption of our processing centers could harm our business. We have dedicated processing centers that permit us to produce standardized products in large volumes while maintaining low operating costs. Any prolonged disruption in the operations of any of these facilities, whether due to labor or technical difficulties, destruction or damage to any of the facilities or otherwise, could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we are unable to retain and attract management and key personnel, it may adversely affect our business. We believe that our success is due, in part, to our experienced management team. Losing the services of one or more members of our management team could adversely affect our business and possibly prevent us from improving our operational, financial and information management systems and controls. In the future, we may need to retain and hire additional qualified sales, marketing, administrative, operating and technical personnel, and to train and manage new personnel. Our ability to implement our business plan is dependent on our ability to retain and hire a large number of qualified employees each year. If we are unable to hire sufficient qualified personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our existing international operations and potential joint ventures may cause us to incur costs and risks that may distract management from effectively operating our North American business, and such operations or joint ventures may not be profitable. We maintain foreign operations in Canada, China and Mexico. International operations are subject to certain risks inherent in conducting business in foreign countries, including price controls, exchange controls, limitations on participation in local enterprises, nationalization, expropriation and other governmental action, and changes in currency exchange rates. While we believe that our current arrangements with local partners provide us with experienced business partners in foreign countries, events or issues, including disagreements with our partners, may occur that require attention of our senior executives and may result in expenses or losses that erode the profitability of our foreign operations or cause our capital investments abroad to be unprofitable. 12 Table of Contents Lead time and the cost of our products could increase if we were to lose one of our primary suppliers. If, for any reason, our primary suppliers of aluminum, carbon steel, stainless steel or other metals should curtail or discontinue their delivery of such metals in the quantities needed and at prices that are competitive, our business could suffer. The number of available suppliers could be reduced by factors such as industry consolidation and bankruptcies affecting steel and metal producers. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our top 25 suppliers represented approximately 77% of our purchases. We could be significantly and adversely affected if delivery were disrupted from a major supplier. If, in the future, we were unable to obtain sufficient amounts of the necessary metals at competitive prices and on a timely basis from our traditional suppliers, we may not be able to obtain such metals from alternative sources at competitive prices to meet our delivery schedules, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. We could incur substantial costs in order to comply with, or to address any violations or liability under, environmental, health and safety laws that could significantly increase our operating expenses and reduce our operating income. Our operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety statutes and regulations, including laws and regulations governing materials we use. In addition, certain of our operations are subject to foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the air and water and establish standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and remediation of contaminated soil, surface waters and groundwater. Failure to maintain or achieve compliance with these laws and regulations or with the permits required for our operations could result in substantial operating costs and capital expenditures, in addition to fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party claims for property damage or personal injury, worker’s compensation or personal injury claims, cleanup costs or temporary or permanent discontinuance of operations. Certain of our facilities are located in industrial areas, have a history of heavy industrial use and have been in operation for many years and, over time, we and other predecessor operators of these facilities have generated, used, handled and disposed of hazardous and other regulated wastes. Environmental liabilities could exist, including cleanup obligations at these facilities or at off-site locations where materials from our operations were disposed of, which could result in future expenditures that cannot be currently quantified and which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Future changes to environmental, health and safety laws or regulations, including those related to climate change, could result in material liabilities and costs, constrain operations or make such operations more costly for us, our suppliers and our customers. We are subject to litigation that could strain our resources and distract management. From time to time, we are involved in a variety of claims, lawsuits and other disputes arising in the ordinary course of business. These suits concern issues including product liability, contract disputes, employee-related matters and personal injury matters. It is not feasible to predict the outcome of all pending suits and claims, and the ultimate resolution of these matters as well as future lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or reputation. We may face product liability claims that are costly and create adverse publicity. If any of the products that we sell cause harm to any of our customers, we could be exposed to product liability lawsuits. If we were found liable under product liability claims, we could be required to pay substantial monetary damages. Further, even if we successfully defended ourself against this type of claim, we could be forced to spend a substantial amount of money in litigation expenses, our management could be required to spend valuable time in the defense against these claims and our reputation could suffer, any of which could harm our business. We are controlled by a single investor group and its interest as an equity holder may conflict with those of a creditor. Platinum owns 99% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Ryerson Holding, which owns 100% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Ryerson. As a result, Platinum controls matters such as the election of all of the members of our board of directors, amendments to our organizational documents, or the approval of any mergers, tender offers, sales of assets or other major corporate transactions. The interests of Platinum may not in all cases be aligned with the interests of holders of the Ryerson Holding Notes. For example, Platinum could cause us to make acquisitions that increase the amount of the indebtedness that is secured or senior to the notes or to sell revenue-generating assets, impairing our ability to make payments under the notes. Additionally, Platinum is in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Accordingly, Platinum may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. In addition, Platinum may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to holders of our notes. Our risk management strategies may result in losses. From time to time, we may use fixed-price and/or fixed-volume supplier contracts to offset contracts with customers. Additionally, we may use foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge Canadian dollar and floating rate debt 13 Table of Contents exposures. These risk management strategies pose certain risks, including the risk that losses on a hedge position may exceed the amount invested in such instruments. Moreover, a party in a hedging transaction may be unavailable or unwilling to settle our obligations, which could cause us to suffer corresponding losses. A hedging instrument may not be effective in eliminating all of the risks inherent in any particular position. Our profitability may be adversely affected during any period as a result of use of such instruments. We may be adversely affected by currency fluctuations in the U.S. dollar versus the Canadian dollar and the Chinese renminbi. We have significant operations in Canada which incur the majority of their metal supply costs in U.S. dollars but earn the majority of their sales in Canadian dollars. Additionally, we have significant assets in China. We may from time to time experience losses when the value of the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Canadian dollar or the Chinese renminbi, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we will be subject to translation risk when we consolidate our Canadian and Chinese subsidiaries’ net assets into our balance sheet. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the Canadian dollar or Chinese renminbi could reduce the value of these assets as reported in our financial statements, which could, as a result, reduce our stockholders’ equity. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 