Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to Quad/Graphics' securities. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment. Quad/Graphics operates in a highly competitive industry. The industry in which the Company operates is highly competitive. The printing industry, with approximately 29,000 companies in the United States, is highly fragmented. Although there has been industry consolidation, particularly in the past decade, the largest 400 printers still represent less than 40% of the United States and Canadian markets, according to the 2010 Printing Impressions PI400 and the PIA/GATF 2010 Print Market Atlas. The Company competes for commercial business not only with large and mid-sized printers, but also with smaller regional printers. In certain circumstances, due primarily to factors such as freight rates and customer preference for local services, printers with better access to certain regions of a given country may be preferred by customers in such regions. Quad/Graphics also faces competition from alternative sources of communication, including email, the internet, electronic readers, interactive television and electronic retailing. In recent years, the printing industry has experienced a reduction in demand for printed materials and overcapacity. The impacts of overcapacity and intense competition have led to continued downward pricing pressures. Printing industry revenues may continue to decrease in the future. Some of the industries that the Company services have been subject to consolidation efforts, leading to a smaller number of potential customers. Furthermore, if the smaller customers of Quad/Graphics are consolidated with larger companies using other printing companies, the Company could lose its customers to competing printing companies. The printing industry is highly competitive and expected to remain so. Any failure on the part of the Company to compete effectively in the markets it serves could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition or cash flows and could require changes to the way it conducts its business or require it to reassess strategic alternatives involving its operations. Significant downward pricing pressure and fluctuating demand for printing services caused by factors outside of the Company's control may adversely affect the Company. The Company has experienced significant downward pricing pressures for printing services in the past and pricing for printing services has declined significantly in recent years. Such pricing may continue to decline from current levels. In addition, demand for printing services has fluctuated in recent years and may continue to fluctuate. Any increases in the supply of printing services or decreases in demand could cause prices to continue to decline, and prolonged periods of low prices, 16 Table of Contents weak demand and/or excess supply could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business growth, results of operations and liquidity. Quad/Graphics may not be able to improve its operating efficiency rapidly enough to meet market conditions. Because the markets in which the Company competes are highly competitive, Quad/Graphics will need to continue to improve its operating efficiency in order to maintain or improve its profitability. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to do so in the future. In addition, the need to reduce ongoing operating costs have and, in the future, may continue to result in significant up-front costs to reduce workforce, close or consolidate facilities, or upgrade equipment and technology. Quad/Graphics may be adversely affected by increases in its operating costs, including the cost and availability of raw materials, labor-related costs, fuel and other energy costs and freight rates. Paper, ink and energy are the primary raw materials used by the Company in the operation of its business. The price of such raw materials has fluctuated over time and has caused fluctuations in the Company's net sales and cost of sales. This volatility may continue and Quad/Graphics may experience increases in the costs of its raw materials in the future as prices in the overall paper, ink and energy markets are expected to remain beyond its control. In general, the Company has been able to pass along increases in the cost of paper to many of its customers. If the Company is unable to continue to pass along increases in the cost of paper to its customers, future increases in paper costs would adversely affect its margins and profits. If Quad/Graphics passes along increases in the cost of paper and the price of the Company's products and services increases as a result, customer demand could be adversely affected and thereby negatively impact Quad/Graphics' financial performance. The Company has less frequently been able to pass along increases in the cost of ink and energy to its customers. If the Company is unable to pass along increases in the cost of ink and energy, future increases in these items would adversely affect its margins and profits. If Quad/Graphics is able to pass along increases in the costs of ink and energy and the price of the Company's products and services increases as a result, customer demand could be adversely affected and thereby negatively impact Quad/Graphics' financial performance. Due to the significance of paper in the Company's business, it is dependent on the availability of paper. In periods of high demand, certain paper grades have been in short supply, including grades used in the Company's business. In addition, during periods of tight supply, many paper producers allocate shipments of paper based upon historical purchase levels of customers. Although Quad/Graphics generally has not experienced significant difficulty in obtaining adequate quantities of paper, unforeseen developments in the overall paper markets could result in a decrease in the supply of paper and could adversely affect the Company's revenues or profits. In addition, the Company may not be able to resell waste paper and other by-products or the prices received for their sale may decline substantially. Labor represents a significant component of the cost structure of Quad/Graphics. Increases in wages, salaries and benefits, such as medical, dental, pension and other post-retirement benefits, may impact the Company's financial performance. Changes in interest rates, investment returns or the regulatory environment may impact the amounts the Company will be required to contribute to the pension plans that it sponsors following the acquisition of World Color Press and may affect the solvency of these pension plans. Freight rates and fuel costs also represent a significant component of the Company's cost structure. In general, the Company has been able to pass along increases in the cost of freight and fuel to many of its customers. If the Company is not able to pass along a substantial portion of increases in freight 17 Table of Contents rates or in the price of fuel, future increases in these items would adversely impact the Company's margin and profits. If Quad/Graphics passes along increases in the cost of freight and fuel and the price of the Company's products and services increases as a result, customer demand could be adversely affected and thereby negatively impact Quad/Graphics' financial performance. The synergies expected to be produced from integrating World Color Press' business with Quad/Graphics' business following the acquisition of World Color Press may not be realized or may require the Company to incur additional costs. The success of the acquisition of World Color Press will depend, in part, on Quad/Graphics' ability to realize the synergies expected to be produced from integrating World Color Press' businesses with Quad/Graphics' pre-acquisition business due to capacity consolidation (primarily in the United States), purchasing and supply chain efficiencies, logistics and distribution savings, and consolidation of corporate headquarters, among other areas. Quad/Graphics has identified somewhat more than $225 million of pre-tax annualized synergies that could be realized within 24 months after the consummation of the acquisition of World Color Press. Management estimates that the total cost of achieving the synergies will be approximately $195 to $240 million in integration costs, most of which the Company believes will be incurred in the first 24 months after the consummation of the acquisition, and may exceed this range. The Company's estimates are based on a number of assumptions, including, but not limited to, assumptions relating to plant rationalization, plant and equipment utilization, selling, general and administrative expense savings, logistics and distribution savings, and purchasing and supply chain efficiencies, which may prove incorrect. The Company also may incur additional and/or unexpected costs in order to realize the anticipated synergies. While management believes that the synergies are achievable, the Company may be unable to realize all of the synergies within the time frame expected or at all. The integration process is and will continue to be complex, costly and time-consuming. The difficulties of integrating World Color Press' businesses may include, among others: •unanticipated issues in integrating manufacturing, logistics, information, communications, and other systems; •unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; •failure to retain key employees, which might adversely affect operations and the ability to retain other employees; •failure to retain customers; and •other unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. Quad/Graphics may not accomplish the integration of World Color Press' businesses smoothly, successfully or within the anticipated cost range or timeframe. The diversion of management's attention from the Company's operations due to the integration effort and any difficulties encountered in combining operations could prevent the Company from realizing the full benefits anticipated to result from the acquisition of World Color Press and could adversely affect its business. Technological changes may adversely affect Quad/Graphics' products and services and may require the Company to make capital expenditures to maintain its platform and processes and to remain technologically and economically competitive, which may increase its costs or disrupt its operations. Technological changes continue to increase the accessibility and quality of electronic alternatives to traditional delivery of printed documents through the online distribution and hosting of media content and the electronic distribution of documents and data. The acceleration of consumer acceptance of 18 Table of Contents such electronic media, as an alternative to print materials, may decrease the demand for the Company's printed products or result in reduced pricing for its printing services. Because production technologies continue to evolve, the Company has had to make significant capital expenditures to develop and maintain its platform and processes, and the Company expects to be required to make capital expenditures to maintain its platform in the future. Quad/Graphics also may be required to make capital expenditures and successfully develop and integrate new technologies to remain technologically and economically competitive. If the Company cannot obtain adequate capital or does not respond adequately to the need to develop and integrate changing technologies in a timely manner, its results of operations, financial condition or cash flows may be adversely affected. Changes in postal rates, postal regulations and postal services may adversely impact demand for Quad/Graphics' products and services. Postal costs are a significant component of the cost structures of many of the Company's customers, and potential customers, and postal rate changes can influence the number of pieces that these customers will be willing to mail. Any resulting decline in print volumes mailed could have an adverse effect on the Company's business. In addition, integrated distribution with the postal service is an important component of the Company's business. Any change in the current service levels provided by the postal service could impact the demand that customers have for print services. The United States Postal Service has reported net losses in the last four fiscal years and has estimated a net loss for its current fiscal year and, as a result, may come under increased pressure to adjust its postal rates and service levels. A significant portion of Quad/Graphics' revenues are derived from long-term contracts with customers, which may not be renewed on similar terms and conditions or may not be renewed at all. The failure to renew or be awarded such contracts could materially adversely affect Quad/Graphics' results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company has historically derived a significant portion of its revenue from long-term contracts with important customers. If the Company loses important customers, is unable to renew such contracts on similar terms and conditions, or at all, or is not awarded new long-term contracts with important customers in the future, its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. Changing future economic conditions and the effects of these conditions on certain of Quad/Graphics' customers in certain geographies may adversely affect the Company's results of operations. The uncertainty of future economic conditions could negatively impact certain of the Company's customers in some of the geographies in which the Company operates. This uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult to forecast results of operations and to make decisions about future investments. Delays or reductions in customers' spending could have an adverse effect on demand for the Company's products and services, and consequently its results of operations, financial position and cash flow, and those adverse affects could be material. Quad/Graphics and its facilities are subject to various laws and regulations, including environmental and privacy laws and regulations, and will become subject to additional laws and regulations in the future, which may subject the Company to material liability, require it to incur material costs or otherwise adversely affect its results of operations. The Company uses various materials in its operations that contain constituents considered hazardous or toxic under environmental laws and regulations. In addition, the Company's operations are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations relating to, among other things, air 19 Table of Contents emissions, wastewater discharges and the generation, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of solid waste. Further, the Company is subject to laws and regulations designed to reduce the probability of spills and leaks and, in the event of a release, requiring an appropriate response to such an event. Permits are required for the operation of certain parts of the Company's business, and these permits are subject to renewal, modification and, in some circumstances, revocation. The Company's operations generate wastes that are disposed of off-site. Under certain environmental laws, the Company may be liable for cleanup costs and damages relating to any contamination at these off-site disposal locations, or at the existing or former facilities of Quad/Graphics or World Color Press, whether or not the Company knows of, or was responsible for, the presence of such contamination. The remediation costs and other costs required to clean up or treat contaminated sites can be substantial. Contamination on and from such current or former locations may subject the Company to liability to third parties or governmental authorities for injuries to persons, property or natural resources and may adversely affect its ability to sell or rent its properties or to borrow money using such properties as collateral. The production of paper, which is a significant raw material for the Company, results in greenhouse gas emissions, as do certain of the Company's processes. Various laws and regulations addressing climate change are being considered at the federal and state levels. Proposals under consideration include limitations on the amount of greenhouse gas that can be emitted (so-called "caps") together with systems of trading allowed emissions capacities. The impacts of such proposals could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company incurs ongoing capital and operating costs to maintain compliance with environmental laws, including monitoring its facilities for environmental conditions. The Company has taken, and, in the future, is expected to take, reserves on its financial statements to cover potential environmental remediation and compliance costs as it considers appropriate. There can be no assurance, however, that the liabilities for which reserves have been taken are the only environmental liabilities relating to the current or former locations of Quad/Graphics or World Color Press, that material environmental conditions not known to the Company do not exist, that future laws or regulations will not impose material environmental liability on the Company, or cause the Company to incur significant capital and operating expenditures, or that the actual environmental liabilities will not exceed reserves taken. In addition, failure to comply with any environmental regulations or an increase in regulations could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition. Quad/Graphics and its customers may be subject to various United States, European, Canadian and other foreign consumer protection, data privacy and "do not mail" requirements at the federal, state, provincial and local levels. To the extent that the Company or its customers become subject to additional or more stringent consumer protection and data privacy and similar requirements, their demand for the Company's services may decrease, which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations. In addition, Quad/Graphics is subject to requirements of United States, European, Canadian and other foreign occupational health and safety laws and regulations at the federal, state, provincial and local levels. These requirements are complex, constantly changing and have tended to become more stringent over time. It is possible that these requirements may change or liabilities may arise in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company has been, or that the Company will be, at all times in complete compliance with all such requirements or that the Company will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with those requirements in the future. 20 Table of Contents Quad/Graphics' revenue is subject to cyclical and seasonal variations and may fluctuate significantly based on factors outside of its control. The business in which the Company operates is sensitive to general economic cycles and may be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the markets it serves, as well as by local, regional, national and global economic conditions. The Company's business operations are also seasonal. Both Quad/Graphics and World Color Press have recognized the majority of their respective historical operating income during the past five years in the third and fourth quarters of the financial year, primarily as a result of the higher number of magazine pages and back-to-school, retail and holiday catalog promotions occurring during these periods. Within any year, this seasonality could adversely affect the Company's cash flows and results of operations. Currently, there is a limited active market for Quad/Graphics' class A stock and, as a result, shareholders may be unable to sell their class A stock without losing a significant portion of their investment. The Company's class A stock has been traded on the NYSE under the symbol "QUAD" since July 6, 2010. However, the Company has not sold its class A stock to the public in any traditional type of offering (the only Quad/Graphics stock issued publicly was the class A stock issued to the former shareholders of World Color Press in the acquisition of World Color Press) and, therefore, there is currently a limited active market for the class A shares. The Company cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in the Company will lead to the development of an active trading market for its class A stock on the NYSE or how liquid that market will become. If a more active trading market does not develop, shareholders may have difficulty selling any class A stock without negatively affecting the stock price and thereby losing a significant portion of their investment. Quad/Graphics' debt facilities include various covenants imposing restrictions that may affect the Company's ability to operate its business. On September 1, 1995, as last amended on January 26, 2006, Quad/Graphics entered into a Senior Secured Note Agreement (the "Master Note and Security Agreement") pursuant to which the Company has issued over time senior notes in an aggregate principal amount of $1.13 billion in various tranches. As of December 31, 2010, the borrowings outstanding under the Master Note and Security Agreement were $672 million. In connection with the acquisition of World Color Press, on April 23, 2010, Quad/Graphics entered into a $1.23 billion debt financing agreement with certain lenders. This financing agreement includes a $700 million term loan and a $530 million revolving credit facility. These lending arrangements include certain financial covenants (all financial terms, numbers and ratios are as defined in the respective debt agreements). Among these covenants, the Company must maintain the following (for each covenant, the most restrictive measurement has been included below): •On a rolling twelve-month basis, the total leverage ratio, defined as total consolidated debt to consolidated EBITDA, shall not exceed 3.75 to 1.00 (for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, the Company's leverage ratio was 2.36 to 1.00). This ratio will step down to 3.50 to 1.00 on December 31, 2012 and further step down to 3.25 to 1.00 on December 31, 2013. •On a rolling twelve-month basis, the minimum interest coverage ratio, defined as consolidated EBITDA to consolidated cash interest expense, shall not be less than 3.00 to 1.00 (for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, the Company's interest coverage ratio was 6.01 to 1.00). This ratio will step up to 3.25 to 1.00 on December 31, 2011 and further step up to 3.50 to 1.00 on December 31, 2012. •On a rolling twelve-month basis, the fixed charge coverage ratio, defined as consolidated EBITDA and rent expense to interest and rent expense, shall not be less than 1.50 to 1.00 (for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, the Company's fixed charge coverage ratio was 2.94 to 1.00). 21 Table of Contents •Consolidated net worth of at least $745.8 million plus 40% of positive consolidated net income cumulatively for each year (as of December 31, 2010, the Company's consolidated net worth was $1.41 billion). The covenants also include certain limitations on acquisitions, indebtedness, liens, dividends and repurchases of capital stock. Pursuant to the Company's $1.23 billion debt financing agreement, the Company is prohibited from paying any dividends, repurchasing capital stock or making any distributions other than, among other limited situations, annual dividends or distributions not to exceed $60.0 million during each of 2011 and 2012. Starting January 1, 2013, the Company has additional dividend restrictions (based on free cash flow as defined in the debt financing agreement) if the Company's total leverage ratio is greater than 2.75 to 1.00, but has no restrictions if the Company's total leverage ratio is less than 2.75 to 1.00 (total leverage ratio as defined in the debt financing agreement). As of and for the rolling twelve month period ended December 31, 2010, the Company was in compliance with all of these, and all other, debt covenants. While the Company currently expects to be in compliance in future periods, there can be no assurance that these financial covenants will continue to be met. Quad/Graphics' failure to comply with these financial covenants could prevent the Company from borrowing additional amounts and could result in a default under any of the other Company debt agreements. Such default could cause the indebtedness outstanding under the credit facilities, by virtue of cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions, to become immediately due and payable. Quad/Graphics may be adversely affected by interest rates, foreign exchange rates and credit risk. As of December 31, 2010, 54% of the Company's borrowings were subject to variable interest rates. As a result, the Company is exposed to market risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates, and increases in interest rates could adversely affect the Company. Because a portion of the Company's operations are outside the United States, significant revenues and expenses are denominated in local currencies. Although operating in local currencies may limit the impact of currency rate fluctuations on the results of operations of the Company's non-U.S. subsidiaries and business units, fluctuations in such rates may affect the translation of these results into the Company's consolidated financial statements. To the extent revenues and expenses are not in the applicable local currency, the Company may enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company's efforts at hedging will be successful. There is always a possibility that attempts to hedge currency risks will lead to greater losses than predicted. The Company is exposed to risks of loss in the event of nonperformance by its customers. Some of the Company's customers may be highly leveraged or otherwise subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. Even if the Company's credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, the Company may experience financial losses in its dealings with customers and other parties. Any increase in the nonpayment or nonperformance by customers could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition. Through the acquisition of World Color Press, the Company has significant liabilities with respect to defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits that could grow in the future and cause the Company to incur additional costs. As a result of the acquisition of World Color Press, the Company sponsors defined benefit pension plans for certain of its employees in the United States and Canada. The majority of the plans' assets are held in North American and global equities and fixed income or debt securities. The asset allocation as of December 31, 2010 was approximately 64% equities, 35% debt securities and 1% other. As a result of the acquisition of World Color Press, the Company also maintains postretirement medical benefits plans for certain of its employees. These postretirement medical benefit plans are not funded. 22 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, the Company had underfunded pension and other postretirement benefit liabilities of approximately $338 million for defined benefit plans and other postretirement benefits plans in the United States and Canada. Under current pension law, pension funding deficits are generally required to be funded over a seven-year period in the United States and over a ten-year period in Canada. In 2011, under current pension law, the contributions required to such plans are expected to total approximately $54 million (not including benefit payments). These pension deficits may increase or decrease depending on changes in the levels of interest rates, pension plan investment performance, pension legislation and other factors. Declines in global, and in particular North American, equity markets would increase the Company's potential pension funding obligations. Any significant increase in the Company's required contributions could have a material adverse impact on its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition to the single employer defined benefit plans described above, the Company, as a result of the World Color Press acquisition, now participates in multiemployer pension plans in the United States and Canada. Prior to the acquisition by Quad/Graphics, World Color Press received notice that certain United States plans in which it participated were in critical status, as defined in Section 432 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Internal Revenue Code"). As a result, the Company may be subject to increased contribution rates associated with these plans or other multiemployer pension plans suffering from declines in their funding levels. Due to the significantly underfunded status of the United States multiemployer plans, the Company intends to withdraw from these multiemployer plans and replace these pension benefits with a Company-sponsored "pay as you go" defined contribution plan, which is historically the form of retirement benefit provided to the Company's employees. The U.S. multiemployer plans have provided estimates to Quad/Graphics of the withdrawal liability that it would incur, assuming a hypothetical immediate and complete withdrawal from the plans at the time of such estimates. The Company believes that the pre-tax withdrawal liability for all United States and Canadian multiemployer plans is approximately $100 million in the aggregate and that amount has been recorded in the Company's consolidated financial statements. However, the Company is not able to determine the exact amount of its withdrawal liability because the amount of that exposure could be higher or lower, depending on, among other things, the nature and timing of any triggering events and the funded status of the plans at that time. Holders of class A stock are not able to independently elect directors of Quad/Graphics or control any of the Company's management policies or business decisions or its decisions to issue additional shares, declare and pay dividends or enter into corporate transactions because the holders of class A stock have substantially less voting power than the holders of the Company's class B common stock, all of which is owned by certain members of the Quadracci family, trusts for their benefit or other affiliates of Quad/Graphics, whose interests may be different from the holders of class A stock. The Company's stock is divided into three classes of common stock: class A stock, class B common stock ("class B stock") and class C common stock ("class C stock"). The class B stock and the class C stock each has 10 votes per share on all matters and the class A stock is entitled to one vote per share. As of March 18, 2011, the class B stock constitutes approximately 80% of Quad/Graphics' total voting power. As a result, holders of class B stock are able to exercise a controlling influence over the Company's business, have the power to elect its directors and indirectly control decisions such as whether to issue additional shares, declare and pay dividends or enter into corporate transactions. All of the class B stock is owned by certain members of the Quadracci family, trusts for their benefit or other affiliates of Quad/Graphics, whose interests may differ from the interests of the holders of class A stock. Approximately 78% of the outstanding class B stock is held of record by the Quad/Graphics voting trust, and that constitutes about 63% of the Company's total voting power. The trustees of the 23 Table of Contents Quad/Graphics voting trust have the authority to vote the stock held by the Quad/Graphics voting trust. Accordingly, the trustees of the Quad/Graphics voting trust are able to exercise a controlling influence over the Company's business, have the power to elect its directors and indirectly control decisions such as whether to issue additional shares, declare and pay dividends or enter into corporate transactions. Quad/Graphics is a controlled company within the meaning of the rules of the NYSE and, as a result, it relies on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to shareholders of other companies. Since the Quad/Graphics voting trust owns more than 50% of the total voting power of the Company's stock, the Company is considered a controlled company under the corporate governance listing standards of the NYSE. As a controlled company, an exception under the NYSE listing standards exempts the Company from the obligation to comply with certain of the NYSE's corporate governance requirements, including the requirements: •that a majority of the Company's board of directors consist of independent directors, as defined under the rules of the NYSE; •that the Company have a corporate governance and nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and •that the Company have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities. Accordingly, for so long as Quad/Graphics is a controlled company, holders of class A stock will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. Quad/Graphics may be adversely affected by strikes and other labor protests. As of December 31, 2010, Quad/Graphics had a total of approximately 25,000 employees, of which approximately 28% were covered by a collective bargaining agreement. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had 30 collective bargaining agreements in Canada and the United States, almost all of which cover a portion of the former World Color Press employees. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately 4,000 employees outside of the United States and Canada, the majority of which are either governed by agreements that apply industry-wide, by a collective agreement or through works councils or similar arrangements. While the Company believes its employee relations are good and that the Company maintains an employee-centric culture, and there has not been any material disruption in operations resulting from labor disputes, the Company cannot be certain that it will be able to maintain a productive and efficient labor environment. The Company cannot predict the outcome of any future negotiations relating to the renewal of the collective bargaining agreements, nor can there be any assurance that work stoppages, strikes or other forms of labor protests pending the outcome of any future negotiations will not occur. A strike or other forms of labor protest affecting a series of major plants in the future could materially disrupt the Company's operations and result in a material adverse impact on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could force the Company to reassess its strategic alternatives involving certain of its operations. 24 Table of Contents Until the Company completes an assessment of what new market risks it now has due to the acquisition of World Color Press, there may be certain market risks that the Company is not aware of, and its future risk management strategies implemented following such assessment may not fully insulate it from market risks even after the integration is complete. The acquisition of World Color Press increased the number of transactions in which the Company is involved and expanded the international scope of the Company's operations, thereby expanding the market risks to which the Company is subject. The Company has begun to assess its post-acquisition market risks in detail and management will modify the Company's risk management strategies based on that assessment. Until this assessment and modification is completed, the Company may have exposure to market risks that it is not aware of due to, among other things, the larger number of transactions, expanded international operations and increased borrowing resulting from the acquisition. Any new risk management strategies that are implemented, moreover, may not fully insulate the Company from adverse effects due to market risks. There are risks associated with the Company's operations outside of the United States and Canada. Net sales from the Company's operations outside of the United States and Canada accounted for approximately 10% and 13% of its revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As a result, the Company is subject to the risks inherent in conducting business outside of the United States and Canada, including the impact of economic and political instability and being subject to different legal and regulatory regimes that may preclude or make more costly certain initiatives or the implementation of certain elements of its business strategy. A decline in expected profitability of Quad/Graphics or individual reporting units of the Company could result in the impairment of assets, including goodwill, other long-lived assets and deferred tax assets. Primarily as a result of the acquisition of World Color Press, the Company has a material amount of goodwill, other long-lived assets and deferred tax assets on its balance sheet. A decline in expected profitability, among other factors, could call into question the recoverability of the related goodwill, other long-lived assets or deferred tax assets and require the Company to write down or write off these assets or, in the case of deferred tax assets, recognize a valuation allowance through a charge to income. Such an occurrence could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial position. Quad/Graphics' failure to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or to prevent or detect material misstatements in its annual or interim consolidated financial statements in the future could result in inaccurate financial reporting, sanctions or securities litigation, or could otherwise harm its business. By December 31, 2011, the Company will be required to comply with the standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("Section 404") regarding internal control over financial reporting. Prior to the acquisition of World Color Press, Quad/Graphics was a private company and, as such, was not required to comply with these requirements. The process of becoming compliant with Section 404 may divert internal resources and will take a significant amount of time and effort to complete. In addition, Quad/Graphics must also integrate World Color Press' financial reporting systems, including its internal control over financial reporting. The Company may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses, as well as increased independent auditor fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. The Company is required to be compliant under Section 404 by December 31, 2011, and at that time the Company's management will be required to deliver a report that assesses the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, and the Company will be required to receive an opinion from its independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of its 25 Table of Contents internal controls over financial reporting. Completing documentation of its internal control system and financial processes, remediation of control deficiencies and management testing of internal controls will require substantial effort. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to complete the required management assessment by its reporting deadline. Failure to implement these changes timely, effectively or efficiently could harm the Company's operations, financial reporting or financial results and could result in Quad/Graphics being unable to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from its independent auditors. If the Company is unable to maintain effective control over financial reporting, such conclusion would be disclosed in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2011. In the future, the Company may identify material weaknesses and significant deficiencies which it may not be able to remediate in a timely manner. If it fails to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404, the Company will not be able to conclude that it has and maintains effective internal control over financial reporting or its independent registered accounting firm may not be able to issue an unqualified report on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. As a result, the Company's ability to report its financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected, it may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC and/or the NYSE and investors may lose confidence in the Company's financial information, which in turn could cause the market price of the class A stock to decrease significantly. Quad/Graphics also may be required to restate financial statements relating to prior periods. The Company is heavily dependent on its Chief Executive Officer, its management team and key personnel. The Company's continued success depends, in part, on the retention, recruitment and continued contributions of key management, finance, sale and marketing personnel, some of whom could be difficult to replace. The Company's success is largely dependent upon its senior management team, led by its Chief Executive Officer and other key managers. The loss of any one or more of such persons could have an adverse effect on the Company's business and financial condition. World Color Press' bankruptcy may have lingering negative effects. The ongoing claims being processed from World Color Press' bankruptcy and related legal issues may adversely affect the Company's financial condition. In January 2008, World Color Press filed for bankruptcy protection in Canada and the United States. In connection with the insolvency proceedings in Canada and the U.S., World Color Press formulated plans of reorganization that were sanctioned by the Quebec Superior Court and confirmed by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court, respectively, and became effective on July 21, 2009. Proceedings relating to the resolution of claims under the insolvency proceedings are ongoing. The holders of such claims are entitled to recovery based upon the type and classification of such claims. Most types of claims are subject to liability limitations pursuant to the plans of reorganization. However, some claims are entitled to a priority cash recovery and the Company has estimated that approximately $26.1 million of such priority claims have yet to be paid as of December 31, 2010. These types of priority claims are not limited by the reorganization plans and may be significantly higher than $26.1 million. In addition, certain other unsecured claims were to be paid under the reorganization plans by unsecured notes. In connection with the acquisition of World Color Press, such unsecured notes were defeased and then redeemed resulting in $89.2 million deposited with the indenture trustee. Upon the allowance of each claim, such creditors will receive cash out of the $89.2 million in lieu of receiving a note. The Company has estimated its liability under such claims to be $52.5 million, but this liability could be as high as the full amount deposited. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has no unresolved staff comments to report pursuant to this item. 26 Table of Contents 