Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, including the financial statements and related notes, you should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of these risks or uncertainties were to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be adversely affected. Risks Inherent in Our Business Our level of exposure to the market value of natural gas storage services could adversely affect our revenues. As portions of our third-party natural gas storage contract portfolio come up for replacement or renewal, and capacity becomes available, adverse market conditions may prevent us from replacing or renewing the contracts on terms favorable to us. The market value of our storage capacity, realized through the value customers are willing to pay for LTF contracts or via the opportunities to be captured by our STF contracts or optimization activities, could be adversely affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including: • prolonged reduced natural gas price volatility; • a material reduction in the difference between winter and summer prices on the natural gas futures market, sometimes referred to as the seasonal spread, due to real or perceived changes in supply and demand fundamentals; • a decrease in demand for natural gas storage in the markets we serve; • increased competition for storage in the markets we serve; and • interest rates which, when higher, increase the cost of carrying owned or customer inventory. A prolonged downturn in the natural gas storage market due to the occurrence of any of the above factors could result in our inability to renegotiate or replace a number of our LTF contracts upon their expiration, leaving more capacity exposed to the value that could be generated through STF contracts or optimization. STF and optimization values would be impacted by the same factors, and market conditions could deteriorate further before the opportunity to extract value with those strategies could be realized. Further, our lines of business and assets are concentrated solely in the natural gas storage industry. Thus, adverse developments, including any of the industry-specific factors listed above, would have a more severe impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained a more diverse business. We face significant competition that may cause us to lose market share, negatively affecting our business. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenue and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors. The natural gas storage business is competitive. The principal elements of competition among storage facilities are rates, terms of service, types of service, deliverability, supply and market access, flexibility and reliability of service. Our operations compete primarily with other storage facilities in the same markets in the storage of natural gas. The CPUC has adopted policies that favor the development of new storage projects and there are numerous projects, including expansions of existing facilities and greenfield construction projects, at various stages of development in the market where our Wild Goose facility operates. These projects, if developed and placed into service, may compete with our storage operations. 15 Table of Contents We also compete with certain pipelines, marketers and liquefied natural gas, or LNG, facilities that provide services that can substitute for certain of the storage services we offer. In addition, natural gas as a fuel competes with other forms of energy available to end-users, including electricity, coal and liquid fuels. Increased demand for such forms of energy at the expense of natural gas could lead to a reduction in demand for natural gas storage services. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and may now, or in the future, have greater access to expansion or development opportunities than we do. If our competitors substantially increase the resources they devote to the development and marketing of competitive services or substantially decrease the prices at which they offer their services, we may be unable to compete effectively. Some of these competitors may expand or construct new storage facilities that would create additional competition for us. The storage facility expansion and construction activities of our competitors could result in storage capacity in excess of actual demand, which could reduce the demand for our services, and potentially reduce the rates that we receive for our services. We also face competition from alternatives to natural gas storage—ways to increase supply of or reduce demand for natural gas at peak times such that storage is less necessary. For example, excess production or supply capability with sufficient delivery capacity on standby until required for peak demand periods or ability for significant demand to quickly switch to alternative fuels at peak times would represent alternatives to natural gas storage. Competition could intensify the negative impact of factors that significantly decrease demand for natural gas at peak times in the markets served by our storage facilities, such as competing or alternative forms of energy, a recession or other adverse economic conditions, weather, higher fuel costs and taxes or governmental or regulatory actions that directly or indirectly increase the cost or limit the use of natural gas. Increased competition could reduce the volumes of natural gas stored in our facilities or could force us to lower our storage rates. If third-party pipelines interconnected to our facilities become unavailable or more costly to transport natural gas, our business could be adversely affected. We depend upon third-party pipelines that provide delivery options to and from our storage facilities for our benefit and the benefit of our customers. Because we do not own these pipelines, their continuing operation is not within our control. These pipelines may become unavailable for a number of reasons, including testing, maintenance, line repair, reduced operating pressure, lack of operating capacity or curtailments of receipt or deliveries due to insufficient capacity. In addition, these third-party pipelines may become unavailable to us and our customers because of the failure of the interconnects that transport natural gas between our facilities and the third-party pipelines. Because of the limited number of interconnects at our facilities (Wild Goose is connected to third- party pipelines by two interconnects, AECO Hub™ by two interconnects (one at each facility) and Salt Plains by two interconnects), the failure of any interconnect could materially impact our ability or the ability of our customers to deliver natural gas into the third-party pipelines. If the costs to us or our customers to access and transport on these third-party pipelines significantly increase, our profitability could be reduced. If third-party pipelines become partially or completely unavailable, our ability to operate could be restricted, thereby reducing our profitability. A prolonged or permanent interruption at any key pipeline interconnect could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the storage of natural gas, including, but not limited to: • negative unpredicted performance by our storage reservoirs that could cause us to fail to meet expected or forecasted operational levels or contractual commitments to our customers; • unanticipated equipment failures at our facilities; • damage to storage facilities and related equipment caused by tornadoes, hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, fires, extreme weather conditions and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; • damage from construction and farm equipment or other surface uses; • leaks of or other losses of natural gas as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities; • migration of natural gas through faults in the rock or to some area of the reservoir where the existing wells cannot drain the natural gas effectively; • blowouts (uncontrolled escapes of natural gas from a well), fires and explosions; • operator error; and • environmental pollution or release of toxic substances. These risks could result in substantial losses due to breaches of our contractual commitments, personal injury or loss of life, damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or suspension of our operations. In addition, operational interruptions or disturbances, mechanical malfunctions, faulty measurements or other acts, omissions, or errors may result in significant costs or lost revenues. Natural gas that moves outside of the effective drainage area through migration could be permanently lost and will need to be replaced to maintain design storage performance. Information technology systems present potential targets for cyber security attacks. We are reliant on technology to improve efficiency in our business. Information technology systems are critical to our operations. These systems could be a potential target for a cyber security attack as they are used to store and process sensitive information regarding our operations, financial position, and information pertaining to our customers and vendors. While we take the utmost precautions, we cannot guarantee safety from all threats and attacks. Any successful breach of security could result in the spread of inaccurate or confidential information, disruption of operations, environmental harm, endangerment of employees, damage to our assets, and increased costs to respond. Any of these instances could have a negative impact on cash flows, litigation status and/or our reputation, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial conditions, and operations. There is no guarantee that adequate insurance to cover the effects of a cyber security attack will be available at rates we believe are reasonable in the near future or that the cost of responding to a breach will be covered by insurance or recoverable in rates. We are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business, and if an accident or event occurs that is not fully insured it could adversely affect our business. We may not be able to obtain the levels or types of insurance we desire, and the insurance coverage we do obtain may contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or cover all potential losses. The occurrence of any operating risks not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers could adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. Our credit procedures and policies may not be adequate to fully eliminate customer credit risk. If we fail to adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers or unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness, any resulting increase in nonpayment or nonperformance by them and our inability to re-market or otherwise use the capacity could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. We have $575.0 million principal amount outstanding of the 6.50% senior notes due 2019. In addition, we have credit facilities that provide us up to $400 million in borrowing capacity. Our level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: • additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to members; and • we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally than our competitors with less debt. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to service our debt under our credit facilities will depend on market interest rates because the interest rates applicable to our borrowings will fluctuate with movements in interest rate markets. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures. In addition, we may take actions such as selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital although we may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our inability to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us or our inability to service our debt could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources." Restrictions in the agreements governing our indebtedness could limit our ability to make distributions to our members. We are dependent upon the cash flow generated by our operations in order to meet our debt service obligations and to allow us to make distributions to our members. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit agreement, the indenture governing our senior notes and any future financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities, which may, in turn, limit our ability to make distributions to our members. For example, our credit agreement and the indenture governing our 6.50% Senior Notes restrict or limit our ability to: • make distributions; • incur additional indebtedness or guarantee other indebtedness; 18 Table of Contents • grant liens or make certain negative pledges; • make certain loans or investments; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • make any material change to the nature of our business; • make a disposition of assets; or • enter into a merger or plan to consolidate, liquidate, wind up or dissolve. Furthermore, our credit agreement contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios and tests, including that we maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.1 to 1.0 at the end of each fiscal quarter when excess availability under both revolving credit facilities is less than 15% of the aggregate amount of availability under both credit facilities. Our ability to comply with those covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If we violate any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our credit agreement or the indenture governing our 6.50% Senior Notes, the lenders or the note holders, as the case may be, will be able to accelerate the maturity of all borrowings and demand repayment of amounts outstanding, our lenders' commitment to make further loans to us may terminate, and we may be prohibited from making distributions to our unitholders. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. The indenture governing our 6.50% Senior Notes prohibits us from making distributions to unitholders if any default or event of default (as defined in the indenture) exists. In addition, both the indenture and our credit agreement contain covenants limiting our ability to pay distributions to unitholders. The covenants apply differently depending on our fixed charge coverage ratio (defined substantively the same in the indenture and the credit agreement). If the fixed charge coverage ratio is greater than 1.75 to 1.0, we will be permitted to make restricted payments, including distributions to our unitholders, if the aggregate restricted payments since the date of our IPO, excluding certain types of permitted payments, are less than the sum of a number of items including, most importantly, operating surplus (defined similarly to the definition in our Operating Agreement) calculated as of the end of our preceding fiscal quarter and the aggregate net cash proceeds received by us as a capital contribution or from the issuance of equity interests, including the net proceeds received from our IPO. The indenture governing our 6.50% Senior Notes contains an additional general basket of $75.0 million not contained in our credit agreement. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Our $400.0 Million Credit Agreement" and "Our 6.50% Senior Notes Due 2019." Any subsequent replacement of our credit agreement, our 6.50% Senior Notes or any new indebtedness could have similar or greater restrictions. We will be required to make capital expenditures to increase our asset base. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, our ability to pay future cash distributions may be diminished or our financial leverage could increase. In order to increase our asset base, we will need to make expansion capital expenditures. If we do not make sufficient or effective expansion capital expenditures, we will be unable to expand our business operations. To fund our expansion capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash from our operations or incur borrowings or sell additional common units or other membership interests. Such uses of cash from operations will reduce cash available for distribution to our members. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our existing debt agreements, as well as by general economic conditions and contingencies and 19 Table of Contents uncertainties that are beyond our control. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay distributions to our members. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage and issuing additional membership interests may result in significant unitholder dilution and increase the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then-current distribution rate, which could materially decrease our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders in the future. If we do not successfully complete expansion projects or make and integrate acquisitions that are accretive, our future growth may be limited. A principal focus of our strategy is to expand our business. Our ability to grow depends on our ability to complete expansion and development projects and make acquisitions that result in an increase in cash per unit generated from operations. We may be unable to successfully complete accretive expansion or development projects or acquisitions for any of the following reasons: • we are unable to identify attractive expansion or development projects or acquisition candidates or we are outbid by competitors; • we are unable to obtain necessary regulatory and/ or government approvals; • we are unable to realize anticipated costs savings or successfully integrate the businesses we build or acquire; • we are unable to raise financing on acceptable terms; • we make or rely upon mistaken assumptions about volumes, revenues and costs, including synergies and potential growth; • we are unable to secure adequate customer commitments to use the newly expanded or acquired facilities; • we are unable to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our business and assets; • we are unable to complete expansion projects on schedule and within budgeted costs; • we assume unknown liabilities when making acquisitions for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; • our management's and employees' attention is diverted because of other business concerns; or • we experience unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas. If any expansion or development project or acquisition eventually proves not to be accretive to our cash flow per unit, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations will result in fluctuations in our cash flows and operating results. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Historically, a portion of our revenue has been generated in Canadian dollars, but we incur operating and administrative expenses in both U.S. dollars and Canadian dollars and financing expenses in U.S. dollars. If the Canadian dollar weakens significantly, we would be required to convert more Canadian dollars to U.S. dollars to satisfy our obligations, which would cause our financial condition and result of operations to be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents A significant strengthening of the U.S. dollar could result in an increase in our financing expenses and could materially affect our financial results under U.S. GAAP. In addition, because we report our operating results in U.S. dollars, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar also result in fluctuations in our reported revenues and earnings. In addition, under U.S. GAAP, all foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities such as cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, restricted cash, accounts payable, long-term debt, capital lease obligations and asset retirement obligations are revalued and reported based on the prevailing exchange rate at the end of the reporting period. This revaluation may cause us to report significant non-monetary foreign currency exchange gains and losses in certain periods. Our operations are subject to environmental and worker safety laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our natural gas storage activities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state, provincial and local environmental and worker safety laws and regulations. We may incur substantial costs in order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations, including the acquisition of permits to conduct certain activities, increases in operating expenses or curtailment of certain operations to limit or prevent releases of materials from our facilities, the incurrence of capital expenditures associated with the installation of pollution control equipment, and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. Moreover, new, stricter environmental laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be implemented that significantly increase our compliance costs or the cost of any remediation of environmental contamination that may become necessary, and these costs could be material. In addition, laws and regulations to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could affect the production or consumption of natural gas and, adversely affect the demand for our storage services and the rates we are able to charge for those services. The U.S. Congress and the EPA as well as some states and regional groupings of states have in recent years considered legislation or regulations to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. These efforts have included consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes and greenhouse gas reporting and tracking programs. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased demand for natural gas. However, if such future laws and regulations are expansive enough to restrict greenhouse gas emissions associated with the use of natural gas, they could reduce the demand for natural gas and/or result in additional compliance costs or operating restrictions, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, demand for our services, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gas in the atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climate events that could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations See "Business—Regulation" for more information. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of our assets by regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase. AECO Hub™ in Alberta is not currently subject to rate regulation. The AER has jurisdiction to regulate the technical aspects of construction, development, and operation of storage facilities. If approved to do so by the Alberta Government, the AUC, may also set prices for natural gas stored in 21 Table of Contents Alberta. It is not currently Alberta Government policy to disturb market-based prices of independent natural gas storage facilities. If, however, the AUC was authorized to regulate the rates we charge, it could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, a connected pipeline tolling structure is available to our customers at AECO Hub™, allowing them to inject and withdraw natural gas without incremental transportation costs. There has been a decision to include the previously provincially-regulated Alberta System under the jurisdiction of the Federal National Energy Board, or NEB, and it is possible that the NEB could assume federal jurisdiction over, and set rates for, connected storage facilities, including AECO Hub™, or invoke transportation toll design changes that negatively impact AECO Hub™. Our Wild Goose operations are regulated by the CPUC. The CPUC has authorized us to charge our Wild Goose customers market-based rates because, as an independent storage provider, we, rather than ratepayers, bear the risk of any underutilized or discounted storage capacity. If the CPUC changes this determination, for instance as a result of a complaint, we could be limited to charging rates based on our cost of providing service plus a reasonable rate of return, which could have an adverse impact on our revenues associated with providing storage services. Our Salt Plains operations are subject to primary regulation by the OCC and are permitted to conduct a limited amount of storage service in interstate commerce under Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, regulations and policies that allow pipeline and storage companies to engage in interstate commerce (commonly known as NGPA section 311 services under the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978), which services are not subject to FERC's broader jurisdiction under the Natural Gas Act. These section 311 services are provided by Salt Plains pursuant to a Statement of Operating Conditions which is on file with FERC. FERC has permitted Salt Plains to charge market-based rates for its section 311 services. Market-based rate authority allows Salt Plains to negotiate rates with individual customers based on market demand. This right to charge market-based rates may be challenged by a party filing a complaint with FERC. Our market-based rate authorization may also be re-examined if we add substantial new storage capacity through expansion or acquisition and as a result obtain market power. Any successful complaint or protest against our rates, or re-examination of those rates by FERC, could limit us to charging rates based on our cost of providing service plus a reasonable rate of return, and could have an adverse impact on our revenues associated with providing storage services. Should FERC or the OCC change their relevant policies, or should we no longer qualify for primary regulation by the OCC, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our current natural gas storage operations in the United States are generally exempt from the jurisdiction of FERC, under the Natural Gas Act of 1938, or the Natural Gas Act or, in the case of Salt Plains, are providing services under NGPA section 311. If our operations become subject to FERC regulation under the Natural Gas Act, such regulation may extend to such matters as: • rates, operating terms and conditions of service; • the types of services we may offer to our customers; • the expansion of our facilities; • creditworthiness and credit support requirements; • relationships among affiliated companies involved in certain aspects of the natural gas business; and • various other matters. In the event that our operations become subject to FERC regulation, and should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC-administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, or EPA Act 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the Natural Gas Act to impose penalties for certain violations of up to 22 Table of Contents $1,000,000 per day for each violation. FERC also has the authority to order disgorgement of profits from transactions deemed to violate the Natural Gas Act and the EPA Act 2005. We hold title to our storage reservoirs under various types of leases and easements, and our rights thereunder generally continue only for so long as we pay rent or, in some cases, minimum royalties. Our rights under storage easements and leases continue for so long as we conduct storage operations and pay our grantors for our use, or otherwise pay rent owing to the applicable lessor. If we were unable to operate our storage facilities for a prolonged period of time (generally one year) or did not pay the rent or minimum royalty, as applicable, to maintain such storage easements and leases in good standing, we might lose title to our natural gas storage rights underlying our storage facilities. In addition, title to some of our real property assets may have title defects which have not historically materially affected the ownership or operation of our assets. In either case, to recover our lost rights or to remove the title defects, we would be required to utilize significant time and resources. In addition, we might be required to exercise our power of condemnation to the extent available. Condemnation proceedings are adversarial proceedings, the outcomes of which are inherently difficult to predict, and the compensation we might be required to pay to the parties whose rights we condemn could be significant and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our risk management policies cannot eliminate all commodity price risk. In addition, any non-compliance with our risk management policies could result in significant financial losses. While our hedging policies are designed to minimize commodity price risk, some degree of exposure to unforeseen fluctuations in market conditions remains. We have in place risk management systems that are intended to quantify and manage risks, including risks related to our hedging activities such as commodity price risk and basis risk. We monitor processes and procedures to prevent unauthorized trading and to maintain substantial balance between purchases and future sales and delivery obligations. However, these steps may not detect and prevent all violations of our risk management policies and procedures, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved. There is no assurance that our risk management procedures will prevent losses that would negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Risk Management Policy and Practices." New derivatives legislation could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business and on the cost of our hedging activities. We use over-the-counter (OTC) derivative products to hedge commodity risks and, to a lesser extent, our currency risks. On July 21, 2010 new comprehensive financial reform legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), was enacted that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, including us, that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC"), the SEC and other regulators to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation. In its rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC issued regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. The initial position limits rule was vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in September of 2012. However, in November 2013, the CFTC proposed new rules that would place limits on positions in certain core futures and equivalent swaps contracts for or linked to certain physical commodities, subject to exceptions for certain bona fide hedging transactions. As these new position limit rules are not yet final, the impact of those provisions on us is uncertain at this time. The Dodd-Frank Act and 23 Table of Contents CFTC Rules also may require us in connection with certain derivatives activities to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements (or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements). In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires that regulators establish margin rules for uncleared swaps. Posting of collateral could impact liquidity and reduce cash available to us for capital expenditures, therefore reducing our ability to execute derivatives to reduce risk and protect cash flows. Although we expect to qualify for the end-user exception to the clearing, trade execution and margin requirements for swaps entered to hedge our commercial risks, the application of the such requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of our derivatives. Other regulations also remain to be finalized, and the CFTC has delayed the compliance dates for various regulations already finalized. As a result it is not possible at this time to predict with certainty the full effects of the Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules on us and the timing of such effects. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including from swap recordkeeping and reporting requirements and through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, and reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition, and our results of operations. In addition, the European Union and other non-U.S. jurisdictions are implementing regulations with respect to the derivatives market. To the extent we transact with counterparties in foreign jurisdictions, we may become subject to such regulations. At this time, the impact of such regulations is not clear. We may enter into commercial obligations that exceed the physical capabilities of our facilities. We enter into LTF and STF contracts and proprietary optimization transactions based on our understanding of the injection, withdrawal and working gas storage capabilities of our facilities as well as the expected usage patterns of our customers. If our understanding of the capabilities of our facilities or our expectations of the usage by customers is inaccurate we may be obligated to customers to inject, withdraw or store natural gas in manners which our facilities are not physically able to satisfy. If we are unable to satisfy our obligations to our customers we may be liable for damages, the customers could have the right to terminate their contracts with us, and our reputation and customer relationships may be damaged. Our operations could be affected by terrorist activities and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism. In the event that our storage facilities are subject to terrorist activities, such activities could significantly impair our operations and result in a decrease in revenues and additional costs to repair and insure our assets. The effects of, or threat of, terrorist activities could result in a significant decline in the North American economy and the decreased availability and increased cost of insurance coverage. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of any of these customers could result in a decline in our revenues. We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of all or a portion of the revenues attributable to our key customers as a result of competition, creditworthiness, inability to negotiate extensions or replacements of contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity to make acquisitions or for other purposes. An increase in interest rates may cause a corresponding decline in demand for equity investments in general, and in particular for yield-based equity investments such as our common units. Any such increase in interest rates or reduction in demand for our common units resulting from other relatively more attractive investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. Therefore, changes in interest rates may affect our ability to issue additional equity to make acquisitions or for other purposes. Risks Related to Our Structure Holdco currently controls our manager, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Our manager has delegated this responsibility to our board, all of the members of which are appointed by our manager. Our manager and its affiliates, including Holdco, have conflicts of interest with us and limited duties, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of our common unitholders. Holdco owns and controls our manager. Our manager appoints all of the members of our board, which manages and operates us. Some of our directors and executive officers are directors or officers of our manager or its affiliates, including Holdco. Although our board has a contractual duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, our directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to manage our business in a manner beneficial to Holdco. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between Holdco and its affiliates, including our manager, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our board may favor our manager's own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include the following situations: • neither our Operating Agreement nor any other agreement requires Holdco to pursue a business strategy that favors us or our unitholders; • pursuant to our Operating Agreement, our manager has limited its liability and defined its and our board's duties in ways that are protective of it and the board as compared to liabilities and fiduciary duties that would be imposed upon a managing member under Delaware law in the absence of such definition. Our Operating Agreement also restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under Delaware common law; • our board determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional membership interests and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders; • our board determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and, based on the applicable facts and circumstances, whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and to the holders of the new incentive distribution rights; 25 Table of Contents • our board determines which costs incurred by our manager and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; • our Operating Agreement does not restrict our manager from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with its affiliates on our behalf; • our manager may exercise its right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units; • Holdco and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us; • our manager is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, including Holdco and its affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest with us; • except in limited circumstances, our manager has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval; • our Operating Agreement permits us to borrow funds to permit the payment of cash distributions or fund operating expenditures; • our manager may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make incentive distributions; • our Operating Agreement permits us to distribute up to $50.0 million from capital sources, including on the new incentive distribution rights, without treating such distribution as a distribution from capital; • our manager controls the enforcement of the obligations that it and its affiliates owe to us; and • our manager decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. Affiliates of our manager, including Holdco and the Carlyle/Riverstone Funds and their portfolio company subsidiaries, are not limited in their ability to compete with us and are not obligated to offer us the opportunity to pursue additional assets or businesses. Our Operating Agreement among us, Holdco and others does not prohibit affiliates of our manager, including Holdco and the Carlyle/Riverstone Funds, from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. The Carlyle/Riverstone Funds and their portfolio companies may acquire, construct or dispose of additional natural gas storage or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct any of those assets. The Carlyle/Riverstone Funds and their affiliates are large, established participants in the energy industry and may have greater resources than we have, which may make it more difficult for us to compete with these entities with respect to commercial activities as well as for acquisition opportunities. As a result, competition from these entities could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our manager or our directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will have no right to elect our manager or our board on an annual or other continuing basis. Our board, including our independent directors, is chosen entirely by our manager. Unlike publicly-traded corporations, we do not conduct annual meetings of our unitholders to elect directors or conduct other matters routinely conducted at annual meetings of stockholders of 26 Table of Contents corporations. Furthermore, if the unitholders were dissatisfied with the performance of our manager, they have little ability to remove our manager. We are a "controlled company" within the meaning of NYSE rules and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from some of the NYSE listing requirements with respect to independent directors. Because Holdco controls more than 50% of the voting power for the election of our directors, we are a controlled company within the meaning of NYSE rules, which exempt controlled companies from the following corporate governance requirements: • the requirement that a majority of the board consist of independent directors; • the requirement that we have a nominating or corporate governance committee, composed entirely of independent directors, that is responsible for identifying individuals qualified to become board members, consistent with criteria approved by the board, selection of board nominees for the next annual meeting of shareholders, development of corporate governance guidelines and oversight of the evaluation of the board and management; • the requirement that we have a compensation committee of the board, composed entirely of independent directors, that is responsible for reviewing and approving corporate goals and objectives relevant to chief executive officer compensation, evaluation of the chief executive officer's performance in light of the goals and objectives, determination and approval of the chief executive officer's compensation, making recommendations to the board with respect to compensation of other executive officers and incentive compensation and equity-based plans that are subject to board approval and producing a report on executive compensation to be included in an annual proxy statement or Form 10-K filed with the SEC; • the requirement that we conduct an annual performance evaluation of the nominating, corporate governance and compensation committees; and • the requirement that we have written charters for the nominating, corporate governance and compensation committees addressing the committees' responsibilities and annual performance evaluations. For so long as we remain a controlled company, we are not required to have a majority of independent directors or nominating, corporate governance or compensation committees. Accordingly, our unitholders may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Our Operating Agreement limits our manager's and directors' duties to holders of our common units and restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units for actions taken by our manager or board that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our Operating Agreement contains provisions that replace the fiduciary standards to which our manager or directors would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. The limitation and definition of these duties is permitted by the Delaware law governing limited liability companies. For example, our operating agreement permits our manager or directors to make a number of decisions in their individual capacities, as opposed to their capacities as our manager or directors, free of fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders. This entitles our manager and/or directors to consider only the interests and factors that they desire and relieves them of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our members. Examples of decisions that our manager and/ or directors may make in their individual capacities include: • how to allocate business opportunities among us and its affiliates; • whether to exercise its call right; 27 Table of Contents • how to exercise its voting rights with respect to the units it owns; • whether to exercise its registration rights; • whether to elect to reset target distribution levels; and • whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement. Even if unitholders are dissatisfied, they cannot initially remove our manager without Holdco's consent. Unitholders have little ability to remove our manager. The vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of all outstanding common units and Notional Subordinated Units voting together as a single class is required to remove our manager. Holdco owns 53.93% of our outstanding common units and all of our Notional Subordinated Units. Accordingly, our public unitholders are currently unable to remove our manager without Holdco's consent because Holdco owns sufficient units to be able to prevent the manager's removal. Our manager, or its interest in us, may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our manager may transfer its managing member interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, our Operating Agreement does not restrict the ability of the owners of our manager from transferring ownership of our manager to a third party. The new owners of our manager would then be in a position to revoke the delegation to our board of the authority to conduct our business and operations or to replace our directors and officers with their own choices. This effectively permits a "change of control" of the company without unitholder vote or consent. We may issue additional membership interests without unitholder approval, which would dilute a unitholder's existing ownership interests. Our Operating Agreement does not limit the number of additional membership interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. Our issuance of additional common units or other membership interests of equal or senior rank may have the following effects: • each unitholder's proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Our manager has a call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our manager and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our manager will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price, as calculated pursuant to the terms of our Operating Agreement. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. Our manager is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the call right. There is no restriction in our Operating Agreement that prevents our manager from issuing additional common units and exercising its call right. If our manager exercised its call right, the effect would be to take us private and, if the units were subsequently deregistered, we would no longer be subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Our manager and its affiliates own approximately 53.93% of our outstanding common units. 28 Table of Contents Our Operating Agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Our Operating Agreement restricts unitholders' voting rights by providing that any units held by a person or group that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our manager and its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of our board, cannot vote on any matter. Our Operating Agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 18-607 of the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act, or the Delaware Act, we may not make a distribution to unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, members who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited liability company for the distribution amount. A purchaser of common units will be liable for the obligations of the transferor to make contributions to us that are known to such purchaser at the time it became a member and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our Operating Agreement. The market price of our common units could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common units in the public or private markets, including sales by Holdco or other large holders. We have 37,988,724 common units outstanding. 20,488,525 of the common units are owned by Holdco. Sales by Holdco or other large holders of a substantial number of our common units in the public markets, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common units or could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. In addition, we provided registration rights to Holdco. Under our Operating Agreement, our manager and its affiliates have additional registration rights relating to the offer and sale of any units that they hold, subject to certain limitations. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, treats us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, or we become subject to entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, our cash available for distribution to you could be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in our units depends on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited liability company under Delaware law, we would be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy a "qualifying income" requirement. Based upon our current operations, we believe we satisfy the qualifying income requirement. However, the IRS has made no determinations regarding our treatment as a partnership. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on our income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely be liable for state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would 29 Table of Contents generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because taxes would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be substantially reduced. Therefore, our treatment as a corporation would result in a reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a reduction in the value of the units. At the state level, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any state were to impose a similar tax upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to you would be reduced and the value of our common units could be negatively impacted. Our Operating Agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to a material amount of entity-level taxation for U.S. federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. Notwithstanding our treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we are subject to certain non-U.S. taxes. If a taxing authority were to successfully assert that we have more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation were enacted that increased the taxes to which we are subject, the cash available for distribution to unitholders could be further reduced. Most of our business operations and subsidiaries are subject to income, withholding and other taxes in the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which they are organized or from which they receive income, reducing the amount of cash available for distribution. In computing our tax obligation in these non-U.S. jurisdictions, we are required to take various tax accounting and reporting positions on matters that are not entirely free from doubt and for which we have not received rulings from the governing tax authorities, such as whether withholding taxes will be reduced by the application of certain tax treaties. Upon review of these positions the applicable authorities may not agree with our positions. A successful challenge by a tax authority could result in additional tax being imposed on us, reducing the cash available for distribution to unitholders. In addition, changes in our operations or ownership could result in higher than anticipated tax being imposed in jurisdictions in which we are organized or from which we receive income and further reduce the cash available for distribution. Although these taxes may be properly characterized as foreign income taxes, unitholders may not be able to credit them against their liability for U.S. federal income taxes on their share of our earnings. Our Operating Agreement provides that the adverse impact of any such additional entity-level taxation will be borne directly or indirectly by all members. We may become a resident of Canada and have to pay tax in Canada on our worldwide income, which could reduce our earnings, and unitholders could then become taxable in Canada in respect of their ownership of our units. Moreover, as a non-resident of Canada we may have to pay tax in Canada on our Canadian source income, which could reduce our earnings. Under the Income Tax Act (Canada), or the Canadian Tax Act, a company that is resident in Canada is subject to tax in Canada on its worldwide income, and unitholders of a company resident in Canada may be subject to Canadian capital gains tax on a disposition of its units and to Canadian withholding tax on dividends paid in respect of such units. Our place of residence, under Canadian law, would generally be determined based on the place where our central management and control is, in fact, exercised. It is not our current intention that our central management and control be exercised in Canada. Based on our operations, we do not believe that we are, nor do we expect to be, resident in Canada for purposes of the Canadian Tax Act, and we intend that our affairs will be conducted and operated in a manner such that we do not become a 30 Table of Contents resident of Canada under the Canadian Tax Act. However, if we were or become resident in Canada, we would be or become subject under the Canadian Tax Act to Canadian income tax on our worldwide income. Further, unitholders who are non-residents of Canada may be or become subject under the Canadian Tax Act to tax in Canada on any gains realized on the disposition of our units and would be or become subject to Canadian withholding tax on dividends paid or deemed to be paid by us, subject to any relief that may be available under a tax treaty or convention. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, companies with multinational operations, or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes or differing interpretations, possibly applied on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, companies with multinational operations, or an investment in entities such as Niska Gas Storage Partners LLC may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. For example, the Obama administration's budget proposal for fiscal year 2016 recommends that certain publicly traded partnerships earning income from activities related to fossil fuels be taxed as corporations beginning in 2021. From time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. If successful, the Obama administration's proposal or other similar proposals could eliminate the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Further, the Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service issued proposed Regulations interpreting the scope of the qualifying income requirement on May 5, 2015 (the "Proposed Regulations"). We believe that our operations are consistent with the current draft of the Proposed Regulations. However, the Proposed Regulations, once issued in final form, have the potential to change interpretations of the current law. Any modification to U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the qualifying income requirement to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will be reintroduced or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. If a tax authority contests the positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any such contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to unitholders. The tax authorities may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take, and a court may not agree with these positions. Any contest with a tax authority may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with a tax authority will be borne by our members because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. Unitholders are required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Unitholders are required to pay any U.S. federal income taxes, Medicare taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. 31 Table of Contents Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If unitholders sell their common units, they will recognize a gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because for U.S. federal income tax purposes distributions in excess of their allocable share of our net taxable income result in a decrease such unitholders' tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units they sell will, in effect, become taxable income to them for U.S. federal income tax purposes if they sell such units at a price greater than their tax basis in those units, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential of depreciation deductions and certain other items. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our liabilities, unitholders may incur a tax liability on the sale of their units in excess of the amount of cash they receive. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by a tax-exempt entity, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), or a non-U.S. person raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from U.S. federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, is unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. In addition, we expect to withhold taxes from distributions to non-U.S. persons at the highest effective tax rate applicable to non-U.S. persons, and non-U.S. persons are required to file U.S. federal tax returns and pay tax on their shares of our taxable income attributable to our U.S. operations. Tax exempt entities (or those who intend to hold our units through an IRA) and non-U.S. persons should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units. We treat each unitholder as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units held. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of taxable income recognized by unitholders as a result of their ownership of our units. It also could affect the amount of gain from a unitholder's sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to that unitholder's tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. The U.S. Treasury Department has issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which a publicly-traded partnership may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. 32 Table of Contents The amount of taxable income or loss allocable to each unitholder depends, in part, upon values that we periodically determine for our outstanding equity interests and our assets in order to comply with federal income tax law. The IRS may challenge our determinations of these values, which could adversely affect the value of our units. U.S. federal income tax law requires us to periodically determine the value of our assets and to calculate the amount of taxable income or loss allocable to each partner based in part upon these values. We determine these asset values and allocations in part by reference to values that we determine for our outstanding equity interests. The IRS may challenge our valuations and related allocations. A successful IRS challenge to these valuations or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from a unitholder's sale of units and could have a negative impact on the value of units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. A unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a "short seller" to cover a short sale of units) may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because there are no specific rules governing the U.S. federal income tax consequence of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units. In that case, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a securities loan are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our tax partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have technically terminated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns for one fiscal year and may result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but it would result in our being treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If we were treated as a new partnership, we would be required to make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we were unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has recently announced a relief procedure whereby a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated may be permitted to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the two tax years within the fiscal year in which the termination occurs. 33 Table of Contents Unitholders are likely subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire property. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, unitholders are likely subject to state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Unitholders are likely required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We own assets and conduct business in California, Oklahoma and Texas. Each of California and Oklahoma currently imposes a personal income tax on individuals. Many states also impose an income tax on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is the unitholder's responsibility to file all U.S. federal, foreign, state and local tax returns. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state or local tax consequences of an investment in our common units. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 