Item 1A. Risk Factors FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 Certain matters contained in this report include “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements relate to anticipated financial performance, management’s plans and objectives for future operations, business prospects, outcome of regulatory proceedings, market conditions and other matters. We make these forward-looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this report that address activities, events or developments that we expect, believe or anticipate will exist or may occur in the future, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by various forms of words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “seeks,” “could,” “may,” “should,” “continues,” “estimates,” “expects,” “forecasts,” “intends,” “might,” “goals,” “objectives,” “targets,” “planned,” “potential,” “projects,” “scheduled,” “will,” “assumes,” “guidance,” “outlook,” “in service date,” or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on management’s beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to management and include, among others, statements regarding: • the levels of cash distributions to unitholders; • our and Williams’ (as defined below) future credit ratings; • amounts and nature of future capital expenditures; • expansion and growth of our business and operations; • financial condition and liquidity; • business strategy; • cash flow from operations or results of operations; • seasonality of certain business components; • natural gas, natural gas liquids and olefins prices, supply and demand; and • demand for our services. Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions, uncertainties, and risks that could cause future events or results to be materially different from those stated or implied in this report. Limited partner units are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. You should carefully consider the risk factors discussed below in addition to the other information in this report. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay distributions on our common units, the trading price of our common units could decline, and unitholders could lose all or part of their investment. Many of the factors that will determine these results are beyond our ability to control or predict. Specific factors that could cause actual results to differ from results contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: • whether we have sufficient cash from operations to enable us to pay current and expected levels of cash distributions, if any, following establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including payments to our general partner; • availability of supplies, market demand, and volatility of prices; • inflation, interest rates and general economic conditions (including future disruptions and volatility in the global credit markets and the impact of these events on our customers and suppliers); • the strength and financial resources of our competitors and the effects of competition; • whether we are able to successfully identify, evaluate and execute investment opportunities; • the ability to acquire new businesses and assets and successfully integrate those operations and assets into our existing businesses, as well as successfully expand our facilities; • development of alternative energy sources; • the impact of operational and development hazards and unforeseen interruptions; • our ability to recover expected insurance proceeds related to the Geismar plant; 18 • costs of, changes in, or the results of laws, government regulations (including safety and environmental regulations), environmental liabilities, litigation and rate proceedings; • our allocated costs for defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans sponsored by our affiliates; • changes in maintenance and construction costs; • changes in the current geopolitical situation; • our exposure to the credit risks of our customers and counterparties; • risks related to financing, including restrictions stemming from our debt agreements, future changes in our credit ratings and the availability and cost of capital; • the amount of cash distributions from and capital requirements of our investments and joint ventures in which we participate; • risks associated with weather and natural phenomena, including climate conditions; • acts of terrorism, including cybersecurity threats and related disruptions; • additional risks described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligations to and do not intend to update the above list or to announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments. In addition to causing our actual results to differ, the factors listed above and referred to below may cause our intentions to change from those statements of intention set forth in this report. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our results to differ. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon changes in such factors, our assumptions, or otherwise. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, we caution that there are important factors, in addition to those listed above, that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors are described in the following section. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information in this report. Each of these factors could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our securities. Prices for NGLs, olefins, natural gas, oil and other commodities, are volatile and this volatility could adversely affect our financial results, cash flows, access to capital and ability to maintain our existing businesses. Our revenues, operating results, future rate of growth and the value of certain components of our businesses depend primarily upon the prices of NGLs, olefins, natural gas, oil, or other commodities, and the differences between prices of these commodities and could be materially adversely affected by an extended period of current low commodity prices, or a further decline in commodity prices. Price volatility can impact both the amount we receive for our products and services and the volume of products and services we sell. Prices affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. Price volatility can also have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders. The markets for NGLs, olefins, natural gas, oil and other commodities are likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in prices might result from one or more factors beyond our control, including: • worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for natural gas, NGLs, olefins, oil, and related commodities; • turmoil in the Middle East and other producing regions; • the activities of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; • the level of consumer demand; • the price and availability of other types of fuels or feedstocks; • the availability of pipeline capacity; • supply disruptions, including plant outages and transportation disruptions; • the price and quantity of foreign imports of natural gas and oil; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and 19 • the credit of participants in the markets where products are bought and sold. The long-term financial condition of our natural gas transportation and midstream businesses is dependent on the continued availability of natural gas supplies in the supply basins that we access and demand for those supplies in our traditional markets. Our ability to maintain and expand our natural gas transportation and midstream businesses depends on the level of drilling and production by third parties in our supply basins. Production from existing wells and natural gas supply basins with access to our pipeline and gathering systems will naturally decline over time. The amount of natural gas reserves underlying these existing wells may also be less than anticipated, and the rate at which production from these reserves declines may be greater than anticipated. We do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas and NGL reserves connected to our systems and processing facilities. Accordingly, we do not have independent estimates of total reserves dedicated to our systems or the anticipated life of such reserves. In addition, low prices for natural gas, regulatory limitations, or the lack of available capital could adversely affect the development and production of additional natural gas reserves, the installation of gathering, storage, and pipeline transportation facilities and the import and export of natural gas supplies. The competition for natural gas supplies to serve other markets could also reduce the amount of natural gas supply for our customers. A failure to obtain access to sufficient natural gas supplies will adversely impact our ability to maximize the capacities of our gathering, transportation and processing facilities. Demand for our services is dependent on the demand for gas in the markets we serve. Alternative fuel sources such as electricity, coal, fuel oils or nuclear energy could reduce demand for natural gas in our markets and have an adverse effect on our business. A failure to obtain access to sufficient natural gas supplies or a reduction in demand for our services in the markets we serve could result in impairments of our assets and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to grow or effectively manage our growth. As part of our growth strategy, we consider acquisition opportunities and engage in significant capital projects. We have both a project lifecycle process and an investment evaluation process. These are processes we use to identify, evaluate and execute on acquisition opportunities and capital projects. We may not always have sufficient and accurate information to identify and value potential opportunities and risks or our investment evaluation process may be incomplete or flawed. Regarding potential acquisitions, suitable acquisition candidates may not be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable or, where multiple parties are trying to acquire an acquisition candidate, we may not be chosen as the acquirer. If we are able to acquire a targeted business, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired businesses and realize anticipated benefits in a timely manner. Our growth may also be dependent upon the construction of new natural gas gathering, transportation, compression, processing or treating pipelines and facilities, NGL transportation, fractionation or storage facilities or olefins processing facilities, as well as the expansion of existing facilities. We also face all the risks associated with construction. These risks include the inability to obtain skilled labor, equipment, materials, permits, rights-of-way and other required inputs in a timely manner such that projects are completed on time and the risk that construction cost overruns could cause total project costs to exceed budgeted costs. Additional risks associated with growing our business include, among others, that: • changing circumstances and deviations in variables could negatively impact our investment analysis, including our projections of revenues, earnings and cash flow relating to potential investment targets, resulting in outcomes which are materially different than anticipated; • we could be required to contribute additional capital to support acquired businesses or assets; • we may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to us, that exceed our estimates and for which contractual protections are either unavailable or prove inadequate; • acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business, distract management, divert financial and operational resources from existing operations and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards, controls and procedures; and • acquisitions and capital projects may require substantial new capital, either by the issuance of debt or equity, and we may not be able to access capital markets or obtain acceptable terms. If realized, any of these risks could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, including the possible impairment of our assets, and could also have an adverse impact on our financial position, cash flows and our ability to 20 make cash distributions to unitholders. We do not own all of the interests in the Partially Owned Entities, which could adversely affect our ability to operate and control these assets in a manner beneficial to us. Because we do not control the Partially Owned Entities, we may have limited flexibility to control the operation of or cash distributions received from these entities. The Partially Owned Entities’ organizational documents generally require distribution of their available cash to their members on a quarterly basis; however, in each case, available cash is reduced, in part, by reserves appropriate for operating the businesses. Following the closing of the Merger, our investments in the Partially Owned Entities accounted for approximately 8 percent of our total consolidated assets. Conflicts of interest may arise in the future between us, on the one hand, and our Partially Owned Entities, on the other hand, with regard to our Partially Owned Entities’ governance, business, and operations. If a conflict of interest arises between us and a Partially Owned Entity, other owners may control the Partially Owned Entity’s actions with respect to such matter (subject to certain limitations), which could be detrimental to our business. Any future disagreements with the other co-owners of these assets could adversely affect our ability to respond to changing economic or industry conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders. We may not have sufficient cash from operations to enable us to pay cash distributions or to maintain current or expected levels of cash distributions following establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including payments to our general partner. We may not have sufficient cash each quarter to pay cash distributions or maintain current or expected levels of cash distributions. The actual amount of cash we can distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the amount of cash that our subsidiaries and the Partially Owned Entities distribute to us; • the amount of cash we generate from our operations, our working capital needs, our level of capital expenditures, and our ability to borrow; • the restrictions contained in our indentures and credit facility and our debt service requirements; and • the cost of acquisitions, if any. Unitholders should be aware that the amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow, including cash reserves and working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by noncash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses, and we may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. A failure to pay distributions or to pay distributions at expected levels could result in a loss of investor confidence, reputational damage and a decrease in the value of our unit price. We are required to deduct estimated maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus, which may result in less cash available for distribution to unitholders than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted. Our partnership agreement requires us to deduct estimated, rather than actual, maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus. The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus is subject to review and change by our conflicts committee at least once a year. In years when our estimated maintenance capital expenditures are higher than actual maintenance capital expenditures, the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders will be lower than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted from operating surplus. If we underestimate the appropriate level of estimated maintenance capital expenditures, we may have less cash available for distribution in future periods when actual capital expenditures begin to exceed our previous estimates. Over time, if we do not set aside sufficient cash reserves or have available sufficient sources of financing or make sufficient expenditures to maintain our asset base, we will be unable to pay distributions at the anticipated level and could be required to reduce our distributions. Our industry is highly competitive and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our business and operating results. We have numerous competitors in all aspects of our businesses, and additional competitors may enter our markets. Some of our competitors are large oil, natural gas and petrochemical companies that have greater access to supplies 21 of natural gas and NGLs than we do. In addition, current or potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or have greater financial resources than we do, which could affect our ability to make strategic investments or acquisitions. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new laws or regulations or emerging technologies or to devote greater resources to the construction, expansion or refurbishment of their facilities than we can. Similarly, a highly-liquid competitive commodity market in natural gas and increasingly competitive markets for natural gas services, including competitive secondary markets in pipeline capacity, have developed. As a result, pipeline capacity is being used more efficiently, and peaking and storage services are increasingly effective substitutes for annual pipeline capacity. Failure to successfully compete against current and future competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders. We may not be able to replace, extend, or add additional customer contracts or contracted volumes on favorable terms, or at all, which could affect our financial condition, the amount of cash available to pay distributions, and our ability to grow. We rely on a limited number of customers and producers for a significant portion of our revenues and supply of natural gas and NGLs. Although many of our customers and suppliers are subject to long-term contracts, if we are unable to replace or extend such contracts, add additional customers, or otherwise increase the contracted volumes of natural gas provided to us by current producers, in each case on favorable terms, if at all, our financial condition, growth plans, and the amount of cash available to pay distributions could be adversely affected. Our ability to replace, extend, or add additional customer or supplier contracts, or increase contracted volumes of natural gas from current producers, on favorable terms, or at all, is subject to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the level of existing and new competition in our businesses or from alternative fuel sources, such as electricity, coal, fuel oils, or nuclear energy; • natural gas, NGL, and olefins prices, demand, availability and margins in our markets. Higher prices for energy commodities related to our businesses could result in a decline in the demand for those commodities and, therefore, in customer contracts or throughput on our pipeline systems. Also, lower energy commodity prices could result in a decline in the production of energy commodities resulting in reduced customer contracts, supply contracts, and throughput on our pipeline systems; • general economic, financial markets and industry conditions; • the effects of regulation on us, our customers and our contracting practices; and • our ability to understand our customers’ expectations, efficiently and reliably deliver high quality services and effectively manage customer relationships. The results of these efforts will impact our reputation and positioning in the market. Some of our businesses, including our Access Midstream business, are exposed to supplier concentration risks arising from dependence on a single or a limited number of suppliers. Some of our businesses may be dependent on a small number of suppliers for delivery of critical goods or services. For instance, pursuant to a compression services agreement, our Access Midstream business receives a substantial portion of its compression capacity on certain gathering systems from EXLP Operating LLC (“Exterran Operating”). Exterran Operating has, until December 31, 2020, the exclusive right to provide our Access Midstream business with compression services on certain gas gathering systems located in Wyoming, Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Kansas and Arkansas, in return for the payment of specified monthly rates for the services provided, subject to an annual escalation provision. If a supplier on which we depend were to fail to timely supply required goods and services we may not be able to replace such goods and services in a timely manner or otherwise on favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to adequately diversify or otherwise mitigate such supplier concentration risks and such risks were realized, we could be subject to reduced revenues, increased expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders. We conduct certain operations through joint ventures that may limit our operational flexibility or require us to make additional capital contributions. Some of our operations are conducted through joint venture arrangements, and we may enter additional joint ventures in the future. In a joint venture arrangement, we have less operational flexibility, as actions must be taken in accordance with the applicable governing provisions of the joint venture. In certain cases: • we have limited ability to influence or control certain day to day activities affecting the operations; 22 • we cannot control the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund with respect to these operations; • we are dependent on third parties to fund their required share of capital expenditures; • we may be subject to restrictions or limitations on our ability to sell or transfer our interests in the jointly owned assets; and • we may be forced to offer rights of participation to other joint venture participants in the area of mutual interest. In addition, our joint venture participants may have obligations that are important to the success of the joint venture, such as the obligation to pay substantial carried costs pertaining to the joint venture and to pay their share of capital and other costs of the joint venture. The performance and ability of third parties to satisfy their obligations under joint venture arrangements is outside our control. If these third parties do not satisfy their obligations under these arrangements, our business may be adversely affected. Our joint venture partners may be in a position to take actions contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives, and disputes between us and our joint venture partners may result in delays, litigation or operational impasses. If we fail to make a required capital contribution under the applicable governing provisions of our joint venture arrangements, we could be deemed to be in default under the joint venture agreement. Our joint venture partners may be permitted to fund any deficiency resulting from our failure to make such capital contribution, which would result in a dilution of our ownership interest, or our joint venture partners may have the option to purchase all of our existing interest in the subject joint venture. The risks described above or the failure to continue our joint ventures, or to resolve disagreements with our joint venture partners could adversely affect our ability to conduct our operation that is the subject of a joint venture, which could in turn negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions. There are operational risks associated with the gathering, transporting, storage, processing and treating of natural gas, the fractionation, transportation and storage of NGLs, the processing of olefins, and crude oil transportation and production handling, including: • aging infrastructure and mechanical problems; • damages to pipelines and pipeline blockages or other pipeline interruptions; • uncontrolled releases of natural gas (including sour gas), NGLs, olefins products, brine or industrial chemicals; • collapse or failure of storage caverns; • operator error; • damage caused by third-party activity, such as operation of construction equipment; • pollution and other environmental risks; • fires, explosions, craterings and blowouts; • truck and rail loading and unloading; and • operating in a marine environment. Any of these risks could result in loss of human life, personal injuries, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations, loss of services to our customers, reputational damage and substantial losses to us. The location of certain segments of our facilities in or near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. An event such as those described above could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly if the event is not fully covered by insurance. We do not insure against all potential risks and losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities or by the inability of our insurers to satisfy our claims. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, risks and losses, and only at levels we believe to be appropriate. Williams currently maintains excess liability insurance with limits of $695 million per occurrence and in the annual aggregate with a $2 million per occurrence deductible. This insurance covers Williams, its subsidiaries, and certain of its affiliates, including us, for legal and contractual liabilities arising out of bodily injury or property damage, including resulting loss of use to third parties. This excess liability insurance includes coverage for sudden and accidental pollution liability for full limits, with the first $135 million of insurance also providing gradual pollution liability coverage for natural gas and NGL operations. 23 Although we maintain property insurance on certain physical assets that we own, lease or are responsible to insure, the policy may not cover the full replacement cost of all damaged assets or the entire amount of business interruption loss we may experience. In addition, certain perils may be excluded from coverage or be sub-limited. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. We may elect to self-insure a portion of our risks. We do not insure our onshore underground pipelines for physical damage, except at certain locations such as river crossings and compressor stations. Offshore assets are covered for property damage when loss is due to a named windstorm event, but coverage for loss caused by a named windstorm is significantly sub-limited and subject to a large deductible. All of our insurance is subject to deductibles. In addition to the insurance coverage described above, Williams is a member of Oil Insurance Limited (“OIL”), and we are an insured of OIL, an energy industry mutual insurance company, which provides coverage for damage to our property. As an insured of OIL, we are allocated a portion of shared losses and premiums in proportion to our assets. As an insured member of OIL, Williams shares in the losses among other OIL members even if its property is not damaged, and as a result, we may share in any such losses incurred by Williams. The occurrence of any risks not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and our ability to repay our debt and make cash distributions to unitholders. The time required to return our Geismar plant to full expanded production following the explosion and fire at the facility on June 13, 2013, and the amount and timing of insurance recoveries related such incident could be materially different than we anticipate and could cause our financial results and levels of distributions to be materially different than we project. Our projections of financial results and expected levels of distributions are based on numerous assumptions and estimates including, but not limited to, the time required to return the Geismar plant to full expanded production and the amount and timing of insurance recoveries related to the June 13, 2013 explosion and fire at our Geismar plant. Our insurers continue to evaluate our claims and have raised questions around key assumptions involving our business interruption claim; as a result, the insurers have elected to make a partial payment pending further assessment of these issues. Although we currently expect to recover most of the limits under a $500 million insurance program related to the Geismar incident, there can be no assurance that we will recover the full policy limits. Our total receipts from our insurers to date are $296.25 million. Our financial results and levels of distributions could be materially different than we project if our assumptions and estimates related to the incident are materially different than actual outcomes. Our assets and operations, as well as our customers’ assets and operations, can be adversely affected by weather and other natural phenomena. Our assets and operations, especially those located offshore and our customers’ assets and operations, can be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, landslides, tornadoes, fires and other natural phenomena and weather conditions, including extreme or unseasonable temperatures, making it more difficult for us to realize the historic rates of return associated with our assets and operations. A significant disruption in our or our customers’ operations or a significant liability for which we are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Given the volatile nature of the commodities we transport, process, store and sell, our assets and the assets of our customers and others in our industry may be targets of terrorist activities. A terrorist attack could create significant price volatility, disrupt our business, limit our access to capital markets or cause significant harm to our operations, such as full or partial disruption to our ability to produce, process, transport or distribute natural gas, NGLs or other commodities. Acts of terrorism as well as events occurring in response to or in connection with acts of terrorism could cause environmental repercussions that could result in a significant decrease in revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and on our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders. 24 Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and related disruptions. We rely on our information technology infrastructure to process, transmit and store electronic information, including information we use to safely operate our assets. While we believe that we maintain appropriate information security policies, practices and protocols, we face cybersecurity and other security threats to our information technology infrastructure, which could include threats to our operational industrial control systems and safety systems that operate our pipelines, plants and assets. We could face unlawful attempts to gain access to our information technology infrastructure, including coordinated attacks from hackers, whether state-sponsored groups, “hacktivists,” or private individuals. The age, operating systems or condition of our current information technology infrastructure and software assets and our ability to maintain and upgrade such assets could affect our ability to resist cybersecurity threats. We could also face attempts to gain access to information related to our assets through attempts to obtain unauthorized access by targeting acts of deception against individuals with legitimate access to physical locations or information. Breaches in our information technology infrastructure or physical facilities, or other disruptions including those arising from theft, vandalism, fraud or unethical conduct, could result in damage to our assets, unnecessary waste, safety incidents, damage to the environment, reputational damage, potential liability or the loss of contracts, and have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial position and results of operations. The natural gas sales, transportation and storage operations of our gas pipelines are subject to regulation by the FERC, which could have an adverse impact on their ability to establish transportation and storage rates that would allow them to recover the full cost of operating their respective pipelines, including a reasonable rate of return. In addition to regulation by other federal, state and local regulatory authorities, under the Natural Gas Act of 1938, interstate pipeline transportation and storage service is subject to regulation by the FERC. Federal regulation extends to such matters as: • transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce; • rates, operating terms, types of services and conditions of service; • certification and construction of new interstate pipelines and storage facilities; • acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of existing interstate pipelines and storage facilities; • accounts and records; • depreciation and amortization policies; • relationships with affiliated companies who are involved in marketing functions of the natural gas business; and • market manipulation in connection with interstate sales, purchases or transportation of natural gas. Regulatory or administrative actions in these areas, including successful complaints or protests against the rates of the gas pipelines, can affect our business in many ways, including decreasing tariff rates and revenues, decreasing volumes in our pipelines, increasing our costs and otherwise altering the profitability of our pipeline business. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations relating to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, which may expose us to significant costs, liabilities and expenditures that could exceed expectations. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state, tribal and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection, endangered and threatened species, the discharge of materials into the environment and the security of chemical and industrial facilities. Substantial costs, liabilities, delays and other significant issues related to environmental laws and regulations are inherent in the gathering, transportation, storage, processing and treating of natural gas, fractionation, transportation and storage of NGLs, processing of olefins, and crude oil transportation and production handling as well as waste disposal practices and construction activities. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the imposition of stricter conditions on or revocation of permits, the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations and delays in granting permits. Joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations, for the remediation of contaminated areas and in connection with spills or releases of materials associated with natural gas, oil and wastes on, under or from our properties and facilities. Private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipeline and gathering systems pass and facilities where our wastes are taken 25 for reclamation or disposal, may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from our operations. Some sites at which we operate are located near current or former third-party hydrocarbon storage and processing or oil and natural gas operations or facilities, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to ours. We are generally responsible for all liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our facilities and assets, whether acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. In connection with certain acquisitions and divestitures, we could acquire, or be required to provide indemnification against, environmental liabilities that could expose us to material losses, which may not be covered by insurance. In addition, the steps we could be required to take to bring certain facilities into compliance could be prohibitively expensive, and we might be required to shut down, divest or alter the operation of those facilities, which might cause us to incur losses. In addition, climate change regulations and the costs associated with the regulation of emissions of greenhouse gases (“GHGs”) have the potential to affect our business. Regulatory actions by the Environmental Protection Agency or the passage of new climate change laws or regulations could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls on our facilities and (iii) administer and manage our GHG compliance program. If we are unable to recover or pass through a significant level of our costs related to complying with climate change regulatory requirements imposed on us, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. To the extent financial markets view climate change and GHG emissions as a financial risk, this could negatively impact our cost of and access to capital. Climate change and GHG regulation could also reduce demand for our services. If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our pipelines and facilities become unavailable to transport natural gas and NGLs or to treat natural gas, our revenues and cash available to pay distributions could be adversely affected. We depend upon third-party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from our pipelines and facilities for the benefit of our customers. Because we do not own these third-party pipelines or other facilities, their continuing operation is not within our control. If these pipelines or facilities were to become temporarily or permanently unavailable for any reason, or if throughput were reduced because of testing, line repair, damage to pipelines or facilities, reduced operating pressures, lack of capacity, increased credit requirements or rates charged by such pipelines or facilities or other causes, we and our customers would have reduced capacity to transport, store or deliver natural gas or NGL products to end use markets or to receive deliveries of mixed NGLs, thereby reducing our revenues. Any temporary or permanent interruption at any key pipeline interconnect or in operations on third-party pipelines or facilities that would cause a material reduction in volumes transported on our pipelines or our gathering systems or processed, fractionated, treated or stored at our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders. The operation of our businesses might be adversely affected by changes in government regulations or in their interpretation or implementation, or the introduction of new laws or regulations applicable to our businesses or our customers. Public and regulatory scrutiny of the energy industry has resulted in the proposal and/or implementation of increased regulations. Such scrutiny has also resulted in various inquiries, investigations and court proceedings, including litigation of energy industry matters. Both the shippers on our pipelines and regulators have rights to challenge the rates we charge under certain circumstances. Any successful challenge could materially affect our results of operations. Certain inquiries, investigations and court proceedings are ongoing. Adverse effects may continue as a result of the uncertainty of ongoing inquiries, investigations and court proceedings, or additional inquiries and proceedings by federal or state regulatory agencies or private plaintiffs. In addition, we cannot predict the outcome of any of these inquiries or whether these inquiries will lead to additional legal proceedings against us, civil or criminal fines and/or penalties, or other regulatory action, including legislation, which might be materially adverse to the operation of our business and our results of operations or increase our operating costs in other ways. Current legal proceedings or other matters, including environmental matters, suits, regulatory appeals and similar matters might result in adverse decisions against us which, among other outcomes, could result in the imposition of substantial penalties and fines and could damage our reputation. The result of such adverse decisions, either individually or in the aggregate, could be 26 material and may not be covered fully or at all by insurance. In addition, existing regulations might be revised or reinterpreted, and new laws and regulations, including those pertaining to oil and gas hedging and cash collateral requirements, might be adopted or become applicable to us, our customers or our business activities. If new laws or regulations are imposed relating to oil and gas extraction, or if additional levels of reporting, regulation or permitting moratoria are required or imposed, including those related to hydraulic fracturing, the volumes of natural gas and other products that we transport, gather, process and treat could decline and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Certain of our gas pipeline services are subject to long-term, fixed-price contracts that are not subject to adjustment, even if our cost to perform such services exceeds the revenues received from such contracts. Our gas pipelines provide some services pursuant to long-term, fixed-price contracts. It is possible that costs to perform services under such contracts will exceed the revenues our pipelines collect for their services. Although most of the services are priced at cost-based rates that are subject to adjustment in rate cases, under FERC policy, a regulated service provider and a customer may mutually agree to sign a contract for service at a “negotiated rate” that may be above or below the FERC regulated cost-based rate for that service. These “negotiated rate” contracts are not generally subject to adjustment for increased costs that could be produced by inflation or other factors relating to the specific facilities being used to perform the services. Our operating results for certain components of our business might fluctuate on a seasonal basis. Revenues from certain components of our business can have seasonal characteristics. In many parts of the country, demand for natural gas and other fuels peaks during the winter. As a result, our overall operating results in the future might fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. Demand for natural gas and other fuels could vary significantly from our expectations depending on the nature and location of our facilities and pipeline systems and the terms of our natural gas transportation arrangements relative to demand created by unusual weather patterns. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt our operations. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities have been constructed. As such, we are subject to the possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land use. In those instances in which we do not own the land on which our facilities are located, we obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines and gathering systems on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. In addition, some of our facilities cross Native American lands pursuant to rights-of-way of limited term. We may not have the right of eminent domain over land owned by Native American tribes. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders. Difficult conditions in the global financial markets and the economy in general could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Our businesses may be negatively impacted by adverse economic conditions or future disruptions in global financial markets. Included among these potential negative impacts are industrial or economic contraction leading to reduced energy demand and lower prices for our products and services and increased difficulty in collecting amounts owed to us by our customers. If financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to implement our business plans or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. In addition, financial markets have periodically been affected by concerns over U.S. fiscal and monetary policies. These concerns, as well as actions taken by the U.S. federal government in response to these concerns, could significantly and adversely impact the global and U.S. economies and financial markets, which could negatively impact us in the manners described above. As a publicly traded partnership, these developments could significantly impair our ability to make acquisitions or finance growth projects. We distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders on a quarterly basis. We typically rely upon external financing sources, including the issuance of debt and equity securities and bank borrowings, to fund acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures. Any limitations on our access to external capital, including limitations caused by illiquidity or volatility in the capital markets, may impair our ability to complete future acquisitions and construction projects on favorable terms, if at all. As a result, we may be at a competitive disadvantage as compared to businesses that reinvest all of their available cash to expand ongoing operations, particularly under adverse economic conditions. 27 A downgrade of our credit ratings, which are determined outside of our control by independent third parties, could impact our liquidity, access to capital, and our costs of doing business. A downgrade of our credit ratings might increase our cost of borrowing and could require us to provide collateral to our counterparties, negatively impacting our available liquidity. In addition our ability to access capital markets could be limited by a downgrade of our credit ratings. Credit rating agencies perform independent analysis when assigning credit ratings. This analysis includes a number of criteria such as business composition, market and operational risks, as well as various financial tests. Credit rating agencies continue to review the criteria for industry sectors and various debt ratings and may make changes to those criteria from time to time. Credit ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the ratings agencies. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties, and our credit risk management may not be adequate to protect against such risk. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers and counterparties in the ordinary course of our business. Generally, our customers are rated investment grade, are otherwise considered creditworthy or are required to make prepayments or provide security to satisfy credit concerns. However, our credit procedures and policies may not be adequate to fully eliminate customer and counterparty credit risk. Our customers and counterparties include industrial customers, local distribution companies, natural gas producers and marketers whose creditworthiness may be suddenly and disparately impacted by, among other factors, commodity price volatility, deteriorating energy market conditions, and public and regulatory opposition to energy producing activities. If we fail to adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers and counterparties, unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness and any resulting increase in nonpayment and/or nonperformance by them could cause us to write down or write off doubtful accounts. Such write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect our operating results in the periods in which they occur, and, if significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders. Restrictions in our debt agreements and the amount of our indebtedness may affect our future financial and operating flexibility. Following the closing of the Merger, our total outstanding long-term debt (which does not include commercial paper notes), was $16.3 billion, representing approximately 36 percent of our total book capitalization. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain covenants that restrict our and our material subsidiaries’ ability to incur certain liens to support indebtedness and our ability to merge or consolidate or sell all or substantially all of our assets in certain circumstances. In addition, certain of our debt agreements contain various covenants that restrict or limit, among other things, our ability to make certain distributions during the continuation of an event of default and our and our material subsidiaries’ ability to enter into certain affiliate transactions and certain restrictive agreements and to change the nature of our business. Certain of our debt agreements also contain, and those we enter into in the future may contain, financial covenants and other limitations with which we will need to comply. Williams’ debt agreements contain similar covenants with respect to Williams and its subsidiaries, including in some cases us. Our debt service obligations and the covenants described above could have important consequences. For example, they could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, which could in turn result in an event of default on such indebtedness; • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general partnership purposes or other purposes; • diminish our ability to withstand a continued or future downturn in our business or the economy generally; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, the payment of distributions, general partnership purposes or other purposes; and • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, including limiting our ability to expand or pursue our business activities and preventing us from engaging in certain transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us. 28 Our ability to comply with our debt covenants, to repay, extend, or refinance our existing debt obligations and to obtain future credit will depend primarily on our operating performance. Our ability to refinance existing debt obligations or obtain future credit will also depend upon the current conditions in the credit markets and the availability of credit generally. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, meet our debt service obligations or obtain future credit on favorable terms, or at all, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. We may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our failure to comply with the covenants in the documents governing our indebtedness could result in events of default, which could render such indebtedness due and payable. We may not have sufficient liquidity to repay our indebtedness in such circumstances. In addition, cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions in our debt agreements could cause a default or acceleration to have a wider impact on our liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. For more information regarding our debt agreements, please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our ability to obtain credit in the future could be affected by Williams’ credit ratings. Substantially all of Williams’ operations are conducted through its subsidiaries. Williams’ cash flows are substantially derived from loans, dividends and distributions paid to it by its subsidiaries. Williams’ cash flows are typically utilized to service debt and pay dividends on the common stock of Williams, with the balance, if any, reinvested in its subsidiaries as loans or contributions to capital. Due to our relationship with Williams, our ability to obtain credit will be affected by Williams’ credit ratings. Williams has been assigned investment-grade credit ratings at two of the three ratings agencies and sub-investment-grade at the third rating agency. If Williams were to experience a deterioration in its credit standing or financial condition, our access to credit and our ratings could be adversely affected. Any future downgrading of a Williams credit rating could also result in a downgrading of our credit rating. A downgrading of a Williams credit rating could limit our ability to obtain financing in the future upon favorable terms, if at all. Institutional knowledge residing with current employees nearing retirement eligibility or with our former employees might not be adequately preserved. We expect that a significant percentage of employees will become eligible for retirement over the next several years. In certain areas of our business, institutional knowledge resides with employees who have many years of service. As these employees reach retirement age or their services are no longer available to Williams, Williams may not be able to replace them with employees of comparable knowledge and experience. In addition, Williams may not be able to retain or recruit other qualified individuals, and our efforts at knowledge transfer could be inadequate. If knowledge transfer, recruiting and retention efforts are inadequate, access to significant amounts of internal historical knowledge and expertise could become unavailable to us. Our hedging activities might not be effective and could increase the volatility of our results. In an effort to manage our financial exposure related to commodity price and market fluctuations, we have entered, and may in the future enter, into contracts to hedge certain risks associated with our assets and operations. In these hedging activities, we have used, and may in the future use, fixed-price, forward, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. Nevertheless, no single hedging arrangement can adequately address all risks present in a given contract. For example, a forward contract that would be effective in hedging commodity price volatility risks would not hedge the contract’s counterparty credit or performance risk. Therefore, unhedged risks will always continue to exist. While we attempt to manage counterparty credit risk within guidelines established by our credit policy, we may not be able to successfully manage all credit risk and as such, future cash flows and results of operations could be impacted by counterparty default. Our investments and projects located outside of the United States expose us to risks related to the laws of other countries, and the taxes, economic conditions, fluctuations in currency rates, political conditions and policies of foreign governments. These risks might delay or reduce our realization of value from our international projects. We currently own and might acquire and/or dispose of material energy-related investments and projects outside the United States. The economic, political and legal conditions and regulatory environment in the countries in which we have interests or in which we might pursue acquisition or investment opportunities present risks that are different 29 from or greater than those in the United States. These risks include, among others, delays in construction and interruption of business, as well as risks of renegotiation, trade sanctions or nullification of existing contracts and changes in law or tax policy, including with respect to the prices we realize for the commodities we produce and sell. The uncertainty of the legal environment in certain foreign countries in which we develop or acquire projects or make investments could make it more difficult to obtain nonrecourse project financing or other financing on suitable terms, could adversely affect the ability of certain customers to honor their obligations with respect to such projects or investments and could impair our ability to enforce our rights under agreements relating to such projects or investments. Operations and investments in foreign countries also can present currency exchange rate and convertibility, inflation and repatriation risk. In certain situations under which we develop or acquire projects or make investments, economic and monetary conditions and other factors could affect our ability to convert to U.S. dollars our earnings denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, risk from fluctuations in currency exchange rates can arise when our foreign subsidiaries expend or borrow funds in one type of currency, but receive revenue in another. In such cases, an adverse change in exchange rates can reduce our ability to meet expenses, including debt service obligations. We may or may not put contracts in place designed to mitigate our foreign currency exchange risks. We have some exposures that are not hedged and which could result in losses or volatility in our results of operations. Failure of our service providers or disruptions to our outsourcing relationships might negatively impact our ability to conduct our business. We rely on Williams for certain services necessary for us to be able to conduct our business. Certain of Williams’ accounting and information technology functions that we rely on are currently provided by third party vendors, and sometimes from service centers outside of the United States. Services provided pursuant to these agreements could be disrupted. Similarly, the expiration of such agreements or the transition of services between providers could lead to loss of institutional knowledge or service disruptions. Our reliance on Williams and others as service providers and on Williams’ outsourcing relationships, and our limited ability to control certain costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The execution of the integration strategy following the Merger may not be successful. The ultimate success of the Merger will depend, in part, on the ability of the combined company to realize the anticipated benefits from combining these formerly separate businesses. Realizing the benefits of the Merger will depend in part on the effective integration of assets, operations, functions and personnel while maintaining adequate focus on our core businesses. Any expected cost savings, economies of scale, enhanced liquidity or other operational efficiencies, as well as revenue enhancement opportunities, or other synergies, may not occur. Our management team expects to face challenges inherent in integrating certain Pre-merger Access Midstream operations into the West and Northeast G&P operating areas as well as integrating certain functions that support our business such as environmental, health and safety, engineering and construction and business development. If management is unable to minimize the potential disruption of our ongoing business and the distraction of management during the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the Merger may not be realized or may only be realized to a lesser extent than expected. In addition, the inability to successfully manage the integration could have an adverse effect on us. The integration process could result in the loss of key employees, as well as the disruption of each of our ongoing businesses or the creation of inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. Any or all of those occurrences could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with service providers, customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Merger. Integration may also result in additional and unforeseen expenses, which could reduce the anticipated benefits of the Merger and materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our allocation from Williams for costs for its defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans are affected by factors beyond our and Williams’ control. As we have no employees, employees of Williams and its affiliates provide services to us. As a result, we are allocated a portion of Williams’ costs in defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of Williams’ or its affiliates’ employees providing services to us, as well as a portion of the costs of other postretirement benefit plans covering certain eligible participants providing services to us. The timing and amount of our allocations under the 30 defined benefit pension plans depend upon a number of factors that Williams controls, including changes to pension plan benefits, as well as factors outside of Williams’ control, such as asset returns, interest rates and changes in pension laws. Changes to these and other factors that can significantly increase our allocations could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes, and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels. Interest rates may increase in the future. As a result, interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price will be impacted by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and to make cash distributions at our intended levels. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Williams, through its ownership of Access Midstream Ventures, L.L.C. (“Access Midstream Ventures”), indirectly owns and controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Our general partner has limited duties to us and it and its affiliates, including Williams and Access Midstream Ventures, and may have conflicts of interest with us and may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our common unitholders. Access Midstream Ventures, which is owned and controlled by Williams, owns and controls our general partner and appoints all of the officers and directors of our general partner, some of whom are also officers and directors of Williams and Access Midstream Ventures. Although our general partner has a contractual duty when acting in its capacity as our general partner to act in a way that it believes is in our best interest, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner that is beneficial to its sole member, Access Midstream Ventures, and Williams. Conflicts of interest may arise between Williams, Access Midstream Ventures and our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of Williams and/or Access Midstream Ventures over our interests and the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include the following situations, among others: • Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Williams or Access Midstream Ventures to pursue a business strategy that favors us. For example, Williams’ directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interests of the owners of Williams, which may be contrary to our best interests and the interests of our unitholders. Further, Williams is not a party to any agreement that prohibits it from competing against us in our gas gathering and processing operations and for gathering, processing and acquisition opportunities. It is possible that Williams could preclude us from pursuing opportunities in which Williams has a competitive interest. • Our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Williams or Access Midstream Ventures, in resolving conflicts of interest. • Our partnership agreement limits the liability of and reduces the duties owed by our general partner, and also restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. • Except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval. • Williams owns units representing approximately 59 percent of the limited partner interest in us. If a vote of our limited partners is required in which Williams is entitled to vote, Williams will be able to vote its units in accordance with its own interests, which may be contrary to our interests or the interests of our unitholders. • The executive officers and certain directors of our general partner devote significant time to our business and/or the business of Williams, and will be compensated by Williams for the services rendered to them. • Our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders. 31 • Our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and, based on the applicable facts and circumstances and, in some instances, with the concurrence of the conflicts committee of its board of directors, whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and to our general partner with respect to its incentive distribution right. • Our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us. • Our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make incentive distributions. • Our partnership agreement permits us to classify up to $120 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions to our general partner in respect of its general partner interest or the incentive distribution rights. • Our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf. • Our general partner, in certain circumstances, has limited liability regarding our contractual and other obligations and in some circumstances is required to be indemnified by us. • Our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if they own more than 80 percent of the common units. • Our general partner controls the enforcement of the obligations that it and its affiliates owe to us. • Our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. • Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s duties to unitholders and restricts the remedies available to such unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that modify and reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. The limitation and definition of these duties is permitted by the Delaware law governing limited partnerships. In addition, our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our limited partner units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. For example, our partnership agreement: • Permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include whether to exercise of its limited call right, how to exercise its voting rights with respect to the units it owns, whether to exercise its registration rights, its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement, whether to elect to reset target distribution levels and how to allocate business opportunities among us and its affiliates; • Provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed the decision was in the best interests of our partnership; • Generally provides that affiliate transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us, as determined by our general partner in good faith. In determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; • Provides that our general partner, its affiliates and their respective officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and nonappealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that such conduct was criminal; 32 • Provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, if Special Approval (as defined in our partnership agreement) is sought or if neither Special Approval nor unitholder approval is sought and the board of directors of our general partner determines that the resolution or course of action taken with respect to a conflict of interest satisfies certain standards set forth in our partnership agreement, it will be presumed that in making its decision our general partner or the conflicts committee of its board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Common unitholders are bound by the provisions in our partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Affiliates of our general partner, including Williams, are not limited in their ability to compete with us and may exclude us from opportunities with which they are involved. In addition, all of the executive officers and certain of the directors of our general partner are also officers and/or directors of Williams, and these persons will owe fiduciary duties to Williams. While our relationship with Williams and its affiliates is a significant attribute, it is also a source of potential conflicts. For example, Williams and its affiliates are in the natural gas business and are not restricted from competing with us. Williams and its affiliates may acquire, construct or dispose of natural gas industry assets in the future, some or all of which may compete with our assets, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct such assets. In addition, all of the executive officers and certain of the directors of our general partner are also officers and/or directors of Williams and certain of its affiliates and will owe fiduciary duties to those entities. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors, which could reduce the price at which the common units will trade. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will have no right to elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner, including the independent directors, will be chosen entirely by Williams and not by the unitholders. Unlike publicly traded corporations, we will not conduct annual meetings of our unitholders to elect directors or conduct other matters routinely conducted at annual meetings of stockholders. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates will reduce cash available to pay distributions to unitholders. We will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including Williams, for various general and administrative services they provide for our benefit, including costs for rendering administrative staff and support services to us, and overhead allocated to us. Our general partner determines the amount of these reimbursements in its sole discretion. Payments for these services will be substantial and will reduce the amount of cash available for distributions to unitholders. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. To the extent our general partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify it. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Even if public unitholders are dissatisfied, they have little ability to remove our general partner without the consent of Williams. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders have no right to elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen by Williams. As a result of these limitations, the price at which our common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. 33 Furthermore, if our public unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3 percent of all outstanding limited partner units is required to remove our general partner. Following the closing of the Merger, Williams and its affiliates own approximately 59 percent of our outstanding limited partner units and, as a result, our public unitholders cannot remove our general partner without the consent of Williams. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement effectively permits a change of control without unitholder consent. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace our general partner’s board of directors and officers with its own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions made by the board of directors and officers. We may issue additional common units without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholder ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank, or classes of securities which ultimately convert into common units, will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available to pay distributions on each unit may decrease; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may decrease; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. The existence and eventual sale of common units or securities convertible into common units, whether held by Williams or which may be issued in acquisitions and eligible for future sale, may adversely affect the price of our common units. Williams holds 339,664,088 common units, representing approximately 58 percent of our common units outstanding. Williams may, from time to time, sell all or a portion of its common units. We may issue additional common units to unaffiliated third parties in connection with future acquisitions. Sales of substantial amounts of common units by Williams or third parties, or the anticipation of such sales, could lower the market price of our common units and may make it more difficult for us to sell our equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of its board of directors or the holders of our common units. This could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units. Our general partner has the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (48 percent) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution, and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. If our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units and general partner units. The number of common units to be issued to our general partner will equal the number of common units which would have entitled the holder to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. Our general partner’s general partner interest in us (currently two percent) will be maintained at the percentage that existed immediately prior to the reset election. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. It is possible, however, that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset 34 election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. Pursuant to our partnership agreement, if at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80 percent of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. Our general partner may assign this right to any of its affiliates or to us. As a result, nonaffiliated unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Such unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. Our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the limited call right. There is no restriction in our partnership agreement that prevents our general partner from exercising its call right. If our general partner exercised its limited call right, the effect would be to take us private and, if the units were subsequently deregistered under the Exchange Act, we would no longer be subject to the reporting requirements of such Act. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20 percent or more of our common units. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders’ voting rights by providing that any units held by a person that owns 20 percent or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their direct transferees and their indirect transferees approved by our general partner (which approval may be granted in its sole discretion) and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. The partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings, to acquire information about our operations and to influence the manner or direction of management. Your liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. You could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if you were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that: • we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or • your rights to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are nonrecourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. 35 Tax Risks Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by states and localities. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or if we were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state or local tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which currently has a top marginal rate of 35 percent, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions to unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available to pay distributions to unitholders would be substantially reduced. In addition, changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any state were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available for distributions to unitholders would be reduced. Therefore, if we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjected to a material amount of entity-level taxation, there would be a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of the common units. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for U.S. federal, state or local income tax purposes, then the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, the Obama administration’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2016 recommends that certain publicly traded partnerships earning income from activities related to fossil fuels be taxed as corporations beginning in 2021. From time to time, members of Congress propose and consider such substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that affect certain publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for us to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of the common units each month based upon the ownership of the common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of the common units each month based upon the ownership of the common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing United States Department of the Treasury (“Treasury”) regulations, and although the Treasury issued proposed regulations allowing a similar monthly simplifying convention, such regulations are not final and do not 36 specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. An IRS contest of the U.S. federal income tax positions we take may adversely impact the market for the common units, and the costs of any contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders and our general partner. We have not requested any ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the U.S. federal income tax positions we take and the IRS’s positions may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for the common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available to pay distributions to our unitholders and our general partner and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner. Unitholders will be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if unitholders do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, unitholders will be required to pay U.S. federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from their share of our taxable income. The tax gain or loss on the disposition of the common units could be different than expected. If a unitholder sells its common units, it will recognize gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and its tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions to a unitholder in excess of the total net taxable income that was allocated to a unitholder for a common unit, which decreased its tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if the common unit is sold at a price greater than its tax basis in that common unit, even if the price the unitholder receives is less than the original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, regardless of whether such amount represents gain, may be taxed as ordinary income to the unitholder due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized may include a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if a unitholder sells its common units, the unitholder may incur a U.S. federal income tax liability in excess of the amount of cash it received from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (“IRAs”), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to the unitholders who are organizations that are exempt from U.S. federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, may be taxable to them as “unrelated business taxable income.” Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay U.S. federal income tax on their share of our taxable income. We treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of applicable Treasury regulations. Our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of such filing positions. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of U.S. federal income tax benefits available to unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to unitholder tax returns. 37 Unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, such as state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance, or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, even if the unitholder does not live in any of those jurisdictions. Unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states or foreign countries that impose a personal income tax or an entity level tax. It is the unitholder’s responsibility to file all U.S. federal, state and local tax returns. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state and local tax consequences of an investment in our common units. The sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of the total interest in our capital and profits within a 12-month period will result in a termination of our partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated our partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a 12-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all partners, which would result in us filing two tax returns for one fiscal year. Our termination could also result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than 12 months of our taxable income or loss being includable in the unitholder’s taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership, we would be required to make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated requests and the IRS grants special relief, among other things, the partnership will be required to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to its partners for the tax years in the fiscal year during which the termination occurs. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. When we issue additional common units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our partners. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, our allocation of the Code Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and our allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and certain of our partners. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from a unitholder’s sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to the unitholder’s tax returns. A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a “short seller” to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a “short seller” to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, items of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as 38 ordinary income. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion regarding the treatment of a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a short seller to effect a short sale of common units. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from loaning their common units. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 