ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Future Changes in Interest Rates Could Reduce Our Profits. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: • the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and • the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Reinvestment risk is particularly high in this current rate environment. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the current market value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At June 30, 2011 the fair value of our available for sale agency securities, mortgage-backed securities and corporate debt obligations totaled $595.8 million. Unrealized net gains on these available for sale securities totaled approximately $5.8 million at June 30, 2011 and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale in future periods would have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. 38 Table of Contents In addition, many of our FHLB of New York advances are callable, often five years from the date of issuance. To the extent the FHLB of New York calls all or a portion of these advances, we would need to find another funding source, which might be more expensive to us than these advances. The Company’s net interest income is particularly vulnerable to a scenario in which market interest rates “flatten.” This would occur if short term interest rates were approximately the same rate as long term interest rates. In such a scenario, interest income would likely decrease and interest expense would likely increase. We evaluate interest rate sensitivity by estimating the change in Oritani Bank’s net portfolio value over a range of interest rate scenarios. Net portfolio value is the discounted present value of expected cash flows from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet contracts. At June 30, 2011, in the event of an immediate 200 basis point increase in interest rates, the model projects that we would experience a $95.9 million, or 14.6%, decrease in net portfolio value. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Management of Market Risk.” Historically Low Interest Rates May Adversely Affect Our Net Interest Income and Profitability. During the past three years it has been the policy of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, market rates on the loans we have originated and the yields on securities we have purchased have been at lower levels than as available prior to 2008. Consequently, the average yield on our interest earning assets has decreased to 4.87% for the year ended June 30, 2011 from 5.57% for the year ended June 30, 2009. This trend of decreasing average yield on interest earning assets is expected to continue. Our cost of interest bearing liabilities has also decreased over the period, to 1.99% for the year ended June 30, 2011 from 3.21% for the year ended June 30, 2009. However, many of our deposit products are currently priced below 1.00% and the ability to reduce these costs further is limited. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates in the near future. Accordingly, our net interest income (the difference between interest income earned on assets and interest expense paid on liabilities) may decrease, which may have an adverse affect on our profitability. Our Continued Emphasis On Multifamily and Commercial Real Estate Lending Could Expose Us To Increased Lending Risks. Our business strategy centers on continuing our emphasis on multifamily, and commercial real estate lending. We have grown our loan portfolio in recent years with respect to these types of loans and intend to continue to emphasize these types of lending. At June 30, 2011, $1.4 billion, or 80.7%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of multifamily loans and commercial real estate loans. As a result, our credit risk profile will be higher than traditional thrift institutions that have higher concentrations of one to four family residential loans. Loans secured by multifamily and commercial real estate generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one to four family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the underlying property. This risk increases during a negative economic cycle. Additionally, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one to four family residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one to four family residential mortgage loan. We seek to minimize these risks through our underwriting policies, which require such loans to be qualified on the basis of the property’s collateral value, net income and debt service ratio; however, there is no assurance that our underwriting policies will protect us from credit-related losses. Finally, if we foreclose on multifamily and commercial real estate loans, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than one to four family residential mortgage loans because there a fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. We had two separate $21.0 million commercial real estate loans in our portfolio at June 30, 2011. These loans were the largest loans in the portfolio at that date. Both are secured by shopping malls, one located in Ocean County, New Jersey and the other located in Putnam County, New York. Our largest loan relationship consisted of multifamily properties located mainly in our primary market area with a real estate investor. The aggregate outstanding loan balance for this relationship is $50.9 million at June 30, 2011. As discussed in “Business of Oritani Financial Corp-Lending Activities”, we have recently been utilizing stricter underwriting for these types of loans, and curtailed our construction lending. 39 Table of Contents If Our Allowance for Loan Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Will Decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. While our allowance for loan losses was 1.55% of total loans at June 30, 2011, material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Current Market and Economics Conditions May Significantly Affect Our Operations and Financial Condition. Uncertainty in the financial markets and downturn in general economic conditions, including increased levels of unemployment, has persisted over the past few years. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. In general, loan and investment securities credit quality has deteriorated at many institutions and the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Indications of the deterioration of the value of real estate collateral have been evidenced on a national level as well as in our Market Area. These developments could have a significant negative effect on our borrowers and the values of underlying collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance. Housing market conditions in the New York metropolitan area, where most of our lending activity occurs, deteriorated over the past several years. The S&P/Case-Shiller Home Price Indices, the leading measure of U.S. home prices, showed that the price of existing single family homes in the New York metro area as June 2011 decreased 3.6% versus the June 2010 prices. RealtyTrac, a leading online marketplace for foreclosure properties, reported that national foreclosure filings for July 2011 decreased 35% versus July 2010. The decreasing trend in foreclosures is not an indicator of a recovering economy but more likely the result of short-term interventions such as loan modifications, national and state-level foreclosure prevention efforts and foreclosure processing delays. Though total non-performing assets decreased to $19.3 million or 0.74% of total assets at June 30, 2011 from $41.2 million or 1.66% of total assets at June 30, 2010, and classified assets decreased from $57.4 million at June 30, 2010 to $30.7 million at June 30, 2011, if loans that are currently non-performing further deteriorate or loans that are currently performing become non-performing loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses, which would have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The Company would have recognized an additional $2.4 million in interest income during the year ended June 30, 2011 had non-performing loans performed in accordance with the original terms. 40 Table of Contents United States Political, Credit and Financial Market Conditions May Negatively Affect or Impair the Value of Our Current Portfolio of Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities Issued or Guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. As a result of the uncertain domestic political, credit and financial market conditions, investments in residential mortgage-backed securities issued or guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (“GSEs”) pose increased risks arising from liquidity and credit concerns. Given that future deterioration in the United States credit and financial markets is a possibility, no assurance can be made that losses or significant deterioration in the fair value of our investments will not occur. Currently we have approximately $543.5 million invested in residential mortgage-backed securities issued or guaranteed by GSEs. On August 5, 2011, Standard and Poor’s lowered the United States of America’s long-term sovereign credit rating from “AAA” to “AA+.” This downgrade could affect the stability of residential mortgage-backed securities issued or guaranteed by GSEs. These factors could affect the liquidity or valuation of our current portfolio of residential mortgage-backed securities issued or guaranteed by GSEs, and could result in our counterparties requiring additional collateral for our borrowings. Further, unless and until the current United States political, credit and financial market conditions have been sufficiently resolved, it may increase our future borrowing costs. Our Deposit Growth Has Been A Primary Funding Source. If Deposit Growth Slows, It May Be More Expensive For Us To Fund Loan Originations. During the year ended June 30, 2009, we experienced a period of unprecedented deposit growth, with a 61.3% increase in deposit balances. We continued to realize strong deposit growth subsequent to this period. Management believes a portion of this growth was due to external factors, as funds were withdrawn from the stock market and deposited into investment options considered safe by the investors, such as Oritani Bank. Such depositors may choose to redeploy these funds in the stock market at a future date, regardless of our efforts. If this occurs, it would hamper our ability to grow deposits and could even result in a net outflow of deposits. In addition, the increase in deposit insurance limits also may have contributed to our deposit growth and we could experience a net outflow of deposits of such deposit insurance limits were reduced. Another factor increasing the risk of an outflow of deposits pertains to money market accounts. The majority of the deposit growth by the Company was in money market accounts. Money market funds can be withdrawn by depositors at any time without penalty. We will continue to focus on deposit growth, which we use to fund loan originations and purchase investment securities. However, if we are unable to continue to sufficiently increase our deposit balances, we may be required to utilize alternative sources of funding, including Federal Home Loan Bank advances, or increase our deposit rates, each of which will increase our cost of funds. Higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Insurance Premiums Have Increased Our Expenses and Any Future Insurance Premium Increases Will Adversely Affect Our Earnings. As of April 1, 2011, the FDIC implemented a directive of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 to revise its deposit assessment scheme to base the assessment on each institution’s total assets less tangible capital, instead of deposits. While the FDIC has indicated that it anticipates the change to be revenue neutral on an overall basis, the relative effect on individual institutions may differ. In addition, the FDIC has increased assessments in recent years due to the stress on the Deposit Insurance Fund caused by bank and thrift failures. Such increases adversely affect our earnings. The FDIC also adopted a rule pursuant to which all insured depository institutions were required to prepay their estimated assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The prepayment amount was collected on December 30, 2009. We recorded the pre-payment as a prepaid expense, which will be amortized to expense over three years. On December 30, 2009, the Company paid $8.1 million in estimated assessments, of which $5.3 million is prepaid for the 2011 and 2012 assessment periods. If Our Investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York is Classified as Other-Than-Temporarily Impaired or as Permanently Impaired, Our Earnings Could Decrease. We own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (FHLB-NY). We hold the FHLB-NY common stock to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLB-NY’s advance program. The aggregate cost and fair value of our FHLB-NY common stock as of June 30, 2011 was $26.8 million based on its par value. There is no market for our FHLB-NY common stock. 41 Table of Contents Certain member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank System may be subject to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the FHLB-NY, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, we believe that there is some risk that our investment in FHLB-NY common stock could be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause our earnings to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment charge. Our Inability to Achieve Profitability on New Branches May Negatively Affect Our Earnings. We have expanded our presence throughout our market area and we intend to pursue further expansion through de novo branching. The profitability of our expansion strategy will depend on whether the income that we generate from the new branches will offset the increased expenses resulting from operating these branches. We expect that it may take a period of time before these branches can become profitable, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. During this period, the expense of operating these branches may negatively affect our net income. Because the Nature of the Financial Services Business Involves a High Volume of Transactions, We Face Significant Operational Risks. We operate in diverse markets and rely on the ability of our employees and systems to process a high number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside our company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, and business continuation and disaster recovery. Insurance coverage may not be available for such losses, or where available, such losses may exceed insurance limits. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, we could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action, and suffer damage to our reputation Risks Associated with System Failures, Interruptions, or Breaches of Security Could Negatively Affect Our Earnings. Information technology systems are critical to our business. We use various technology systems to manage our customer relationships, general ledger, securities, deposits, and loans. We have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of system failures, interruptions, and security breaches, but such events may still occur and may not be adequately addressed if they do occur. In addition any compromise of our systems could deter customers from using our products and services. Although we rely on security systems to provide security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of security. In addition, we outsource a majority of our data processing to certain third-party providers. If these third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely affected. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. The occurrence of any system failures, interruption, or breach of security could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business thereby subjecting us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 42 Table of Contents Strong Competition Within Our Market Area May Limit Our Growth and Profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with numerous commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have, have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets. For additional information see “Business of Oritani Financial Corp — Competition.” We Operate in a Highly Regulated Industry, Which Limits the Manner and Scope of Our Business Activities. We are subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination by the NJDOBI, FDIC and Federal Reserve Board. As a result, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. This regulatory structure is designed primarily for the protection of the DIF and our depositors, and not to benefit our stockholders. This regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, stock repurchases, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. In addition, we must comply with significant anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws. Government agencies have substantial discretion to impose significant monetary penalties on institutions which fail to comply with these laws. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has changed the bank regulatory framework, created an independent consumer protection bureau that has assumed the consumer protection responsibilities of the various federal banking agencies, and established more stringent capital standards for banks and bank holding companies. Bank regulatory agencies also have been responding aggressively to concerns and adverse trends identified in examinations. Ongoing uncertainty and adverse developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the effect of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulatory actions, may adversely affect our operations by restricting our business activities, including our ability to originate or sell loans, modify loan terms, or foreclose on property securing loans. These risks could affect the performance and value of our loan and investment securities portfolios, which also would negatively affect our financial performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 