Risk Factors. Set forth below is a discussion of certain risks affecting our business. The categorization of risks set forth below is meant to help you better understand the risks facing our business and is not intended to limit your consideration of the possible effects of these risks to the listed categories. Any adverse effects arising from the realization of any of the risks discussed, including our financial condition and results of operation, may, and likely will, adversely affect many aspects of our business. Risks Related to our Business The continuing economic uncertainty may result in decreased loan originations adversely affecting our business. In the current uncertain economic environment, the demand for our bridge loans has fluctuated. As a result, we originated $88.8 million and $42.5 million in loans in the first and second half of fiscal 2011, respectively. Until there are sustained positive changes in the economy (including the credit and real estate markets) and an increased demand for bridge loans, our loan originations may be at a reduced level which would negatively affect our revenues, net income and cash flow. Defaults on our loans may cause declines in revenues and net income. Continuing uncertainty in the credit markets and an uncertain economic environment may result in defaults by our borrowers in the future. Loan defaults result in a decrease in interest income and may require the establishment of, or an increase in, loan loss reserves. The decrease in interest income resulting from loan defaults may be for a prolonged period of time as we seek to recover, primarily through legal proceedings, the outstanding principal balance and accrued interest due on a defaulted loan, plus the legal costs incurred in pursuing our legal remedies. Legal proceedings, which may include foreclosure actions and bankruptcy proceedings, are expensive and time consuming. The decrease in interest income, and the costs involved in pursuing our legal remedies will reduce the amount of cash available to meet our expenses. In addition, the decrease in interest income, the costs incurred by us in a defaulted loan situation and increases in loan loss reserves will have an adverse impact on our net income, taxable income and cash flow. Our loan origination activities may be limited by the funds available to us. At December 5, 2011, we had approximately $80.5 million of cash and cash equivalents available for originations and operations. If demand for our bridge loan increases significantly, as to which no assurance can be given, our ability to originate loans may be limited by the funds available to us. Further, our credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios, including net worth, debt service coverage ratios, and limits our ability to incur debt. These factors may limit the amount of mortgage loans we can originate, which will limit our revenues and operating results. We may incur loan loss provisions and impairment charges in fiscal 2012. We evaluate on a quarterly basis our loan and real estate portfolios for indicators of impairment. Loan loss provisions and impairment charges reflect management's judgment of the probability and severity of loan losses and the decline in the value of real estate property assets. The valuation process, which is inherently difficult, is particularly difficult during a recessionary period in which the availability of credit is limited and commercial real estate transactions have significantly decreased. Loan loss provisions and impairment charges may be required in the future as a result of factors beyond our control, including, among other things, the continuation or downward acceleration of the economic environment and changes in market conditions affecting the value of loan collateral and real 15 Table of Contents property assets. If our loan loss provisions or impairment charges prove inadequate to cover actual losses, we could suffer additional losses. If we are required to take loan loss provisions or impairment charges in the future, our results of operations would be adversely impacted. It is highly unlikely that we will declare any dividends in the next few years. In December 2008, our board of trustees suspended the payment of regular quarterly dividends and we have not declared or paid any dividends since fiscal 2010. In order to qualify as a REIT, we are required to distribute 90% of our taxable income. At December 31, 2010, we had a tax loss carry-forward of $70.5 million. Under current tax laws, we can offset our future taxable income against our tax loss carry-forward for twenty years or until the tax loss carry-forward has been fully used, whichever occurs first. As a result, we do not expect to pay a dividend in calendar 2012 and it is unlikely that we will be required to pay a dividend for many years thereafter in order to maintain our REIT status. The non-payment of cash dividends may negatively impact the price of our common shares. The increased risk of loans secured by unimproved land may harm our results of operations. From time-to-time, we provide loans that are secured by unimproved land. Land loans are subject to a higher risk of default because such properties are not income producing properties. In addition, the market value of such properties is volatile. Although we only make loans on undeveloped land if entitlements and zoning is in place for the intended use, there is always the risk that entitlements and zoning may be changed or lapse. Consequently, in the event of a default and foreclosure, we may not be able to sell undeveloped land for an amount equal to our investment and we may lose a significant portion of our investment. In the event of our acquisition of undeveloped land in foreclosure proceedings, we may elect to hold the property until the market becomes more favorable. In such case during the holding period, which could be for a number of years, we will not receive any income from this property and we will be required to pay the costs of carrying the property, primarily real estate taxes and insurance, which could adversely affect our net income and shareholders' equity. Risks Related to the Newark Joint Venture and Real Estate Operations. The Newark Joint Venture may have an operating loss for the foreseeable future. Our real estate assets include the properties owned by the Newark Joint Venture, which properties had, at September 30, 2011, an aggregate book value of $48.1 million. At September 30, 2011, the Newark Joint Venture properties represented 81.2% and 25.1%, respectively, of our real property assets and total assets. We anticipate that the Newark Joint Venture will operate at a loss in fiscal 2012 and for several years thereafter. If the Newark Joint Venture operates at a loss, we and our Newark Joint Venture partners will be required to fund the losses by making additional capital contributions, on a pro rata basis. Although it is possible that the need to make additional contributions will be mitigated by the sale of some of the Newark Joint Venture properties or financing secured by the Newark Joint Venture for the operation and/or development of its properties, currently, there is no assurance that we will be able to sell any of such properties on satisfactory terms or that we will obtain the financing (other than the soft-cost financing of up to $8.6 million which is already committed) to fund development and construction activities. The operations of the Newark Joint Venture could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity for several years. 16 Table of Contents We have limited experience in developing and operating assemblage sites. The principal assets of our Newark Joint Venture are two assemblage sites and two additional properties located in downtown Newark, NJ. Since we have not previously engaged in the real estate development business, we are subject to risks that differ from those to which we have been subject to historically. Although the principal of the managing member of the Newark Joint Venture (who is formerly the principal of our borrowers) is knowledgeable with respect to the local real estate market and has experience in the development of gut rehabilitation properties, this experience may not necessarily be relevant to a particular redevelopment project. As a result, to redevelop the assemblage sites, the Newark Joint Venture will have to hire personnel knowledgeable in real estate development to assist in its development, become involved with a development partner, or sell some or all of the sites to developers or potential users. There can be no assurance that the Newark Joint Venture will be successful in hiring experienced personnel, finding a development partner with skills needed to develop and/or manage the redevelopment of the sites, or that we will be able to sell some or all of the properties to developers or potential users. The success of our Newark Joint Venture depends, to a large extent, on the principal of the Newark Joint Venture's manager. The principal of the manager of the Newark Joint Venture was responsible for acquiring all the properties owned by the Newark Joint Venture. We believe that the principal's continued involvement is important to the success of the Newark Joint Venture. The diminution or loss of his services due to disability, death or for any other reasons could have a material adverse effect on the Newark Joint Venture's business, which would result in a material adverse effect on our business. The Newark Joint Venture carries key man life insurance on the principal of the manager of the Newark Joint Venture in the amount of $20 million. There can be no assurance that the proceeds from such life insurance would be sufficient to compensate the Newark Joint Venture for the loss of his services, and these policies do not provide any benefits if he becomes disabled or is otherwise unable to render services to the Newark Joint Venture. Our Newark Joint Venture is subject to risks particular to real estate development activities. Our Newark Joint Venture is subject to the risks associated with development activities. These risks include: •The inability to obtain the $150 million or more needed to fund the Teachers Village development project. •The failure to obtain governmental and other approvals on a timely basis; •Construction, financing and other costs of developing the properties owned by the Newark Joint Venture and in particular, Teachers Village, may not be obtained or if obtained may exceed original estimates, possibly making such activities unprofitable; •Time required to complete the construction of Teachers Village or to lease up the completed project may be greater than originally anticipated, thereby adversely affecting our cash flow and liquidity; •Occupancy rates and rents of a completed project may not be sufficient to make such project profitable; and •Acquire all the properties needed to develop the project to its full potential. 17 Table of Contents We may be unable to renew leases or relet space and are exposed to the risks of defaults by tenants. In fiscal 2011, approximately 62.1% of our rental income was generated from properties at the Newark Joint Venture. The leases at the properties owned by the Newark Joint Venture are generally short-term in nature. If our tenants decide not to renew their leases upon their expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. Even if our tenants do renew or we are able to relet the space, the terms of renewal or reletting may be less favorable than current lease terms. If we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the space, or if the rental rates upon such renewal or reletting are significantly lower than current rates, our income would be adversely affected. Friends of Team Academy, a charter school located at the Teacher's Village assemblage, Petco Animal Supplies, Inc. and Calidad Furniture Corp. VII accounted for approximately 23%, 14% and 14%, respectively, of our rental income in fiscal 2011. The default, financial distress or bankruptcy of any of these tenants could cause interruptions in the receipt of, or the loss of, a significant amount of rental revenue and we could incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord. Our rental income could be adversely affected if these tenants become unable to meet their obligations to us. Unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions could adversely affect occupancy, rental rates, operating expenses, and the overall market value of real estate assets we may acquire. Conditions in markets in which we may acquire multi-family real estate assets may significantly affect occupancy, rental rates and the operating performance of such assets. The risks that may adversely affect conditions in those markets include the following: •industry slowdowns, plant closings and other factors that adversely affect the local economy; •an oversupply of, or a reduced demand for, multi-family units; •a decline in household formation or employment or lack of employment growth; •the inability or unwillingness of residents to pay rent increases; •rent control or rent stabilization laws, or other laws regulating housing, that could prevent us from raising rents to offset increases in operating costs; and •economic conditions that could cause an increase in our operating expenses, such as increases in property taxes, utilities, and routine maintenance. Risks Related to our Industry The geographic concentration of our assets may make our revenues and the value of our assets vulnerable to adverse changes in economic conditions in the New York metropolitan area. At September 30, 2011, 71.2% of our outstanding loans are secured by properties located in the New York metropolitan area and 81.2% of our real estate assets are located in Newark, NJ. A lack of geographical diversification makes our mortgage portfolio and real estate property holdings more sensitive to local or regional economic conditions. A significant decline in the economy of the New York metropolitan area (including Newark, NJ), could result in a greater risk of default under our loans compared with the default rate for loans secured by properties in other geographic locations and a greater risk of a decrease in the value of our real estate assets compared with a decrease in value of properties located in other geographic locations. This could result in a reduction of our revenues and provision for loan loss allowances and impairment charges, which might not be as acute if our portfolio were more geographically diverse. 18 Table of Contents In order for real estate properties to generate positive cash flow or to make real estate properties suitable for sale, we may need to make significant capital improvements and incur deferred maintenance costs to these properties. Some of the properties we acquire, including properties acquired through foreclosure proceedings, may face competition from newer, more updated properties. In order to remain competitive and increase occupancy at these properties and/or make them attractive to potential purchasers, we may have to make significant capital improvements and/or incur deferred maintenance costs with respect to these properties. The cost of these improvements and deferred maintenance items may impair our financial performance and our liquidity. Financing with high loan-to-value ratios involves increased risk of loss and may adversely affect us. Our primary source of recovery in the event of a loan default is the real estate underlying a defaulted loan. Therefore, the value of our loan depends upon the value of the underlying real estate. The value of the underlying property is dependent on numerous factors outside of our control, including national, regional and local business and economic conditions, inflation, government economic policies and the availability of credit. A loan-to-value ratio is the ratio of the amount of our loan to the estimated market value of the property underlying a loan, as determined by our internal valuation process. The higher the loan to value ratio, the greater the risk that the amount obtainable from sale of a property will be insufficient to repay the loan in full upon default. We are subject to the risks associated with loan participations, such as lack of full control rights. Some of our investments are participating interests in loans in which we share the rights, obligations and benefits of the loan with participating lenders pursuant to a participation agreement. We may need the consent of these parties to exercise our rights under such loans, including rights with respect to amendment of loan documentation, the institution of, and control over, foreclosure actions, entering into forbearance agreements with borrowers, and sale of the underlying property upon acquisition in foreclosure. Our participant may have interests and goals that are different from ours and may desire an action or position which we oppose. As a result, we could become engaged in a dispute with a participant which may affect our ability to take action with respect to defaulted loan or disposition of the property, to our detriment. We may have less control of our investment when we invest in joint ventures. From time-to-time, we have entered into joint venture agreements. Our co-venturers may have different interests or goals than we do and our co-venturers may not be able or willing to take an action that is desired by us. A disagreement with respect to the activities of the joint venture could result in a substantial diversion of time and effort by our management and could result in our exercise, or the exercise by our co-venturer, of the buy/sell provision often contained in our joint venture organizational documents. In addition, there is no limitation under our charter documents as to the amount of funds that we may invest in joint ventures. Accordingly, we could invest a substantial amount of our funds in joint ventures which ultimately may not be profitable as a result of disagreements with and among our co-venturers. Liability relating to environmental matters may impact the value of properties that we may acquire or the properties securing our loans. We may be subject to environmental liabilities arising from the ownership of properties we acquire. Under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal of certain hazardous substances released on its property. These laws often 19 Table of Contents impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. The presence of hazardous substances may adversely affect an owner's ability to sell real estate or borrow using real estate as collateral. To the extent that an owner of a property underlying one of our loans becomes liable for removal costs, the ability of the owner to make payments to us may be reduced, which in turn may adversely affect the value of the relevant mortgage asset held by us. If we acquire properties, including properties acquired through foreclosure proceedings, the presence of hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect our ability to sell the property and we may incur substantial remediation costs. The discovery of material environmental liabilities attached to such properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive market. We compete with many third parties engaged in finance and real estate investment activities, including other REITs, specialty finance companies, public and private lending companies, investment funds and other entities. Some of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources than we do and generally may be able to accept more risk. As such, they have the ability to make larger loans and to reduce the risk of loss from any one loan by having a more diversified loan portfolio. They may also enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, enhanced operating efficiencies. An increase in the availability of funds to lenders, or a decrease in the amount of borrowing activity, may increase competition for making loans and may reduce obtainable yields or increase the credit risk inherent in the available loans. Our revenues and the value of our portfolio may be negatively affected by casualty events occurring on properties securing our loans. We require our borrowers to obtain, for our benefit, comprehensive insurance covering the property and any improvements to the property collateralizing our loan in an amount intended to be sufficient to provide for the cost of replacement in the event of casualty. In addition, joint ventures in which we are an equity participant carry comprehensive insurance covering the property and any improvements to the property owned by the joint venture for the cost of replacement in the event of a casualty. Further, we carry insurance for such purpose on properties owned by us. However, the amount of insurance coverage maintained for any property may not be sufficient to pay the full replacement cost following a casualty event. In addition, the rent loss coverage under a policy may not extend for the full period of time that a tenant may be entitled to a rent abatement that is a result of, or that may be required to complete restoration following a casualty event. In addition, there are certain types of losses, such as those arising from earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and terrorist attacks, that may be uninsurable or that may not be economically insurable. Changes in zoning, building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors may make it impossible for our borrower, a joint venture or us, as the case may be, to use insurance proceeds to replace damaged or destroyed improvements at a property. If any of these or similar events occur, the amount of coverage may not be sufficient to replace a damaged or destroyed property and/or to repay in full the amount due on all loans collateralized by such property. As a result, our returns and the value of our investment may be reduced. Senior management and other key personnel are critical to our business and our future success may depend on our ability to retain them. We depend on the services of Fredric H. Gould, chairman of our board of trustees, Jeffrey A. Gould, our president and chief executive officer, and other members of senior management to carry 20 Table of Contents out our business and investment strategies. Although Jeffrey A. Gould devotes substantially all of his business time to our affairs, he devotes a limited amount of his business time to entities affiliated with us. In addition to Jeffrey A. Gould, only three other executive officers, Mitchell Gould, our executive vice president, Lonnie Halpern, a vice president, and George Zweier, our vice president and chief financial officer, devote all or substantially all of their business time to us. The remainder of our executive management personnel share their services on a part-time basis with entities affiliated with us and located in the same executive offices pursuant to a shared services agreement. We rely on part-time executive officers to provide certain services to us, including legal, accounting and computer services, since we do not employ full-time executive officers to handle these services. If the shared services agreement is terminated, we will have to obtain such services or hire employees to perform them. We may not be able to replace these services or hire such employees in a timely manner or on terms, including cost and level of expertise, that are as favorable as those we receive under the shared services agreement. In addition, in the future we may need to attract and retain qualified senior management and other key personnel, both on a full-time and part-time basis. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or other key personnel or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could impair our ability to carry out our business and our investment strategies. We do not carry key man life insurance on members of our senior management. Our transactions with affiliated entities involve conflicts of interest. Entities affiliated with us and with certain of our executive officers provide services to us and on our behalf. Although our policy is to obtain terms in transactions with affiliates that are at least as favorable as those that we would receive if the transactions were entered into with unaffiliated entities, these transactions raise the potential that we may not receive terms as favorable as those that we would receive if the transactions were entered into with unaffiliated entities. Compliance with REIT requirements may hinder our ability to maximize profits. In order to qualify as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning among other things, our sources of income, the amounts we distribute to our shareholders and the ownership of securities. We may also be required to make distributions to shareholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Accordingly, compliance with REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must also ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of such issuer. In addition, no more than 5% of the value of our assets can consist of the securities of any one issuer, other than a qualified REIT security. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we must dispose of the portion of our assets in excess of such amounts within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter in order to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences. This requirement could cause us to dispose of assets for consideration of less than their true value and could lead to a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 21 Table of Contents Executive Officers of Registrant Set forth below is a list of our executive officers whose terms will expire at our 2012 annual Board of Trustees' meeting. The business history of officers who are also Trustees will be provided in our proxy statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than January 28, 2012. Name Office Fredric H. Gould* Chairman of the Board of Trustees Jeffrey A. Gould* President and Chief Executive Officer; Trustee Mitchell K. Gould Executive Vice President Matthew J. Gould* Senior Vice President; Trustee Simeon Brinberg** Senior Vice President; Senior Counsel; and Secretary David W. Kalish Senior Vice President, Finance Israel Rosenzweig Senior Vice President Mark H. Lundy** Senior Vice President and General Counsel George E. Zweier Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Lonnie Halpern Vice President *Fredric H. Gould is the father of Jeffrey A. and Matthew J. Gould. **Simeon Brinberg is the father-in-law of Mark H. Lundy. Mitchell K. Gould (age 39), employed by us since May 1998, has been a Vice President since March 1999 and Executive Vice President since March 2007. From January 1998 until May 1998, Mr. Gould was employed by Bear Stearns Companies, Inc. where he was engaged in originating and underwriting commercial real estate loans for securitization. Simeon Brinberg (age 77) has been our Secretary since 1983, a Senior Vice President since 1988, and Senior Counsel since March 2006. Mr. Brinberg has been a Vice President of Georgetown Partners, Inc., the managing general partner of Gould Investors L.P., since October 1988. Gould Investors L.P. is primarily engaged in the ownership and operation of real estate properties held for investment. Since June 1989, Mr. Brinberg has been a Vice President of One Liberty Properties, Inc. (currently a Senior Vice President), a REIT engaged in the ownership of income producing real properties leased to tenants under long term leases. Mr. Brinberg is a member of the New York Bar and was engaged in the private practice of law for approximately 30 years prior to 1988. David W. Kalish (age 64) has been our Senior Vice President, Finance since August 1998. Mr. Kalish was our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from June 1990 until August 1998. He has been Chief Financial Officer of One Liberty Properties, Inc. and Georgetown Partners, Inc. since June 1990. For more than five years prior to June 1990, Mr. Kalish, a certified public accountant, was a partner of Buchbinder Tunick & Company LLP and its predecessors. Israel Rosenzweig (age 64) has been a Senior Vice President since April 1998. Mr. Rosenzweig has been a Vice President of Georgetown Partners, Inc. since May 1997 and from 2000 to March 2009 was President of GP Partners, Inc., an affiliate of Gould Investors L.P. which provided advisory services in the real estate and financial services industries to an investment advisor. He also has been a Senior Vice President of One Liberty Properties, Inc. since May 1997. 22 Table of Contents Mark H. Lundy (age 49) has been our General Counsel since March 2007 and a Senior Vice President since March 2005. From 1993 to March 2005 he was a Vice President. He has been the Secretary of One Liberty Properties, Inc. since June 1993 and he also serves as a Senior Vice President of One Liberty Properties, Inc. Mr. Lundy has been a Vice President of Georgetown Partners, Inc. (currently Senior Vice President) since July 1990. He is a member of the bars of New York and Washington, D.C. George E. Zweier (age 47) has been employed by us since June 1998 and was elected Vice President, Chief Financial Officer in August 1998. For approximately five years prior to joining us, Mr. Zweier, a certified public accountant, was an accounting officer with the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Limited in its New York office. Lonnie Halpern (age 36) has been employed by us since August 2005 and was elected a Vice President in March 2007. Mr. Halpern is a member of the bars of New York and Massachusetts, and was an associate at Goodwin Procter LLP, New York, N.Y. from September 2001 to March 2004 and Hogan & Hartson LLP, New York, N.Y. from April 2004 to July 2005. 