ITEM 1A. Risk Factors In addition to risk disclosed elsewhere in this Annual Report, the following are risks associated with our business and operations. Non-residential loans increase our exposure to credit risks. Over the last several years, we have increased our non-residential lending in order to improve the average yield of our interest-earning assets and reduce the average maturity of our loan portfolio. At December 31, 2010, our portfolio of commercial and agricultural real estate loans totaled $69.1 million, or 39.2% of our total loans, compared to $39.6 million, or 25.6% of our total loans at December 31, 2006. The largest category of these loans is secured by farmland. Our portfolio of commercial business and agricultural business loans totaled $31.0 million, or 17.6% of our total loans at December 31, 2010, compared to 32.8 million, or 21.2% of our total loans at December 31, 2006. These loans are typically secured by equipment or inventory. It is difficult to assess the future performance of our non-residential loan portfolio due to the recent origination or purchase of many of these loans. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off rates above our historical experience, which could adversely affect our future performance. These loans generally have more risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Because the repayment of commercial and agricultural real estate loans and commercial and agricultural business loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower’s properties or related businesses, repayment of these loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or the local economy. Loans secured by agricultural real estate and agricultural businesses which rely on the successful operation of a farm can be adversely affected by fluctuations in crop prices and changes in weather conditions. These developments may result in smaller harvests and less income for farmers which may adversely impact such borrower’s ability to repay a loan. Many of our borrowers also have more than one commercial and agricultural real estate loan or commercial and agricultural business loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Finally, if we foreclose on a commercial and agricultural real estate or commercial loan, our holding period for the collateral, if any, typically is longer than for one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Because we plan to continue to increase our originations of commercial and agricultural real estate and commercial loans, it may be necessary to increase the level of our allowance for loan losses because of the increased risk characteristics associated with these types of loans. Any such increase to our allowance for loan losses would adversely affect our earnings. Our loan portfolio has significant concentrations among a small number of borrowers and, as a result, we could be adversely affected by difficulties experienced by a small number of borrowers. As a result of large loan concentrations among a relatively small number of borrowers, we could incur significant losses if these borrowers are unable to repay their loans. At December 31, 2010, we had 22 borrowers with aggregate loan balances of $44.6 million, which represented 24.8% of our total loan portfolio at that date. These loans are primarily commercial and agricultural real estate loans and commercial and agricultural business loans, including purchased loan participations. Aggregate loan balances to these borrowers ranged from $1.0 million to $4.7 million for our largest borrower. While we seek to control our risk and minimize losses on these large loan concentrations, if one or more of our large borrowers were to default on their loans we could incur significant losses. A portion of our loan portfolio consists of loan participations secured by properties outside our market area. Loan participations may have a higher risk of loss than loans we originate because we are not the lead lender and we have limited control over credit monitoring. 39 We occasionally purchase commercial real estate and commercial business loan participations secured by properties outside our market area in which we are not the lead lender. We have purchased loan participations secured by properties in diverse geographic areas such as in Nebraska, Iowa, Minnesota, Arizona and Indiana. These participations are secured by various types of collateral such as hotels, senior living facilities, stores and condominium developments. Loan participations may have a higher risk of loss than loans we originate because we rely on the lead lender to monitor the performance of the loan. Moreover, our decision regarding the classification of a loan participation and loan loss provisions associated with a loan participation are made in part based upon information provided by the lead lender. A lead lender also may not monitor a participation loan in the same manner as we would for loans that we originate. At December 31, 2010, our loan participations totaled $12.7 million, or 7.1% of our loan portfolio. At December 31, 2010, commercial real estate loan participations outside our market area totaled $8.6 million, or 12.4% of the commercial and agricultural real estate loan portfolio, and commercial business loan participations outside our market area totaled $1.4 million, or 4.5% of the commercial and agricultural business loan portfolio. At December 31, 2010, loan participations delinquent 60 days or more included one loan with a balance of $498,000. If our underwriting of these participation loans is not sufficient, our non-performing loans may increase and our earnings may decrease. If the allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral, if any, securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We may experience significant loan losses, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. If our assumptions are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, which would require additions to the allowance. Additions to the allowance would decrease our net income. At December 31, 2010, our allowance for loan losses was $3.0 million, or 1.65% of total loans and 94.56% of non-performing loans, compared to $2.3 million, or 1.29% of total loans and 117.20% of non-performing loans, at December 31, 2009. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, management reviews delinquent loans for potential impairments in our carrying value. Additionally, we apply a factor to the loan portfolio principally based on historical loss experience applied to the composition of the loan portfolio and integrated with management’s perception of risk in the economy. Since we use assumptions regarding individual loans and the economy, the current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and increases in the allowance may be necessary. Consequently, we may need to significantly increase the provision for losses on loans, particularly if one or more of our larger loans or credit relationships becomes delinquent or if we expand non-residential lending such as commercial and agricultural real estate loans. As we continue to increase our originations of such loans, increased provisions for loan losses may be necessary, which would decrease our earnings. Bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase to the provision for loan losses or further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our non-performing assets increase, our earnings will suffer. At December 31, 2010, our non-performing assets (which consist of non-accrual loans, loans 90 days or more delinquent, and foreclosed real estate assets) totaled $3.6 million, which is an increase of $1.3 million from our non-performing assets at December 31, 2009. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or real estate owned. We must reserve for probable losses which results in additional provisions for loan losses. As circumstances warrant, we must write down the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, we have legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as additional costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our other real estate owned. The resolution of non-performing assets also requires the active involvement of management, which can adversely affect the amount of time we devote to the income-producing activities of Jacksonville Savings Bank. If our estimate of the allowance for loan losses is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance accordingly. 40 We could experience further impairment losses on the value of our mortgage servicing rights. A significant aspect of our business is the origination of one- to four-family residential mortgage loans for sale on a servicing retained basis. The fees we receive for servicing such loans are referred to as mortgage servicing rights. At December 31, 2010, the unpaid principal balance of mortgage loans serviced for others was $149.6 million. Mortgage servicing rights fair values are sensitive to movements in interest rates as expected future net servicing income depends on the projected outstanding principal balances of the underlying loans, which can be greatly reduced by prepayments. Prepayments usually increase when mortgage interest rates decline and decrease when mortgage interest rates rise. If the fair value of our mortgage servicing rights is less than the carrying value of such rights, we may be required to recognize an impairment loss. Such impairment can occur due to changes in interest rates, loan performance or prepayment of the underlying mortgage. At December 31, 2008, we recognized an impairment charge of $428,000 against the value of our mortgage servicing income. Subsequently, as long term interest rates began to rise, we were able to recognize a partial recovery of $123,000 during 2009. Due to the changes in long-term rates during 2010, we recognized an additional impairment charge of $101,000 during 2010. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Because our interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would tend to result in a decrease in net interest income. Changes in interest rates may also affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce their borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Also, increases in interest rates may extend the life of fixed-rate assets, which would restrict our ability to reinvest in higher yielding alternatives, and may result in customers withdrawing certificates of deposit early so long as the early withdrawal penalty is less than the interest they could receive from higher interest rates. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2010, the fair value of our portfolio of investment securities and mortgage-backed securities totaled $94.9 million. Gross unrealized losses on these securities totaled $1.2 million at December 31, 2010. Any rise in market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable rate mortgage loans, thereby increasing the possibility of default. If we are unable to borrow funds, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors, creditors, and borrowers, or the operating cash needed to fund corporate expansion and other corporate activities. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. Our liquidity is used to make loans and to repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. Liquidity policies and procedures are established by the board, with operating limits set based upon the ratio of loans to deposits and percentage of assets funded with non-core or wholesale funding. We regularly monitor our overall liquidity position to ensure various alternative strategies exist to cover unanticipated events that could affect liquidity. We also establish policies and monitor guidelines to diversify our wholesale funding sources to avoid concentrations in any one market source. Wholesale funding sources include federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, non-core deposits, and debt. Jacksonville Savings Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago, which provides funding through advances to members that are collateralized with mortgage-related assets. 41 We maintain a portfolio of available-for-sale securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. There are other sources of liquidity available to us should they be needed. These sources include the sale of loans, the ability to acquire national market, non-core deposits, issuance of additional collateralized borrowings such as Federal Home Loan Bank advances and federal funds purchased, and the issuance of preferred or common securities. If our stock price remains below book value, we will continue to evaluate our goodwill balances for impairment quarterly, and if the values of our businesses have declined, we could recognize an impairment charge for our goodwill. We obtained an independent analysis of our goodwill as of December 31, 2010. This analysis concluded that the fair value of capital exceeded the fair value of our assets and liabilities and, therefore, goodwill was not considered impaired as of that date. It is possible that the assumptions and conclusions regarding the valuation of our business could change adversely, which could result in the recognition of impairment for our goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business may continue to be adversely affected by the continued weakness in the national and local economies. Our operations are significantly affected by national and local economic conditions. Substantially all of our loans, excluding purchased loan participations, are to businesses and individuals in Cass, Morgan, Macoupin and Montgomery Counties, Illinois and surrounding communities. All of our branches and most of our deposit customers are also located in these counties. The severe economic recession of 2008 and 2009, as well as the continuing weakness of the economic recovery in 2010 both nationally and in our market area could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In particular, these counties have experienced declines in real estate values, increased foreclosures and higher unemployment rates. A further deterioration in economic conditions in our market area could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: ● demand for our products and services may decline; ● loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; ● collateral for our loans may continue to decline in value; and ● the amount of our low-cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease. Strong competition may limit growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. We compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, government sponsored entities, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors (whether regional or national institutions) have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our ability to successfully compete in our market areas. 42 We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation, the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Such regulators govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on a bank’s operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, new regulations or legislation or additional deposit insurance premiums, could have a material impact on our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws and applicable regulations are subject to frequent change. Any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. Financial reform legislation recently enacted by Congress will, among other things, eliminate the Office of Thrift Supervision, tighten capital standards, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. Congress recently enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to supervise and regulate all savings and loan holding companies like Jacksonville Bancorp, Inc., in addition to bank holding companies which it currently regulates. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the Federal Reserve Board to set minimum capital levels for bank holding companies that are as stringent as those required for the insured depository subsidiaries, and the components of Tier 1 capital would be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. Savings and loan holding companies are subject to a five year transition period before the holding company capital requirement will apply. The legislation also establishes a floor for capital of insured depository institutions that cannot be lower than the standards in effect today, and directs the federal banking regulators to implement new leverage and capital requirements within 18 months that take into account off-balance sheet activities and other risks, including risks relating to securitized products and derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions such as Jacksonville Savings Bank, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets will be examined by their applicable bank regulators. The new legislation also weakens the federal preemption available for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce applicable federal consumer protection laws. The legislation also broadens the base for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance assessments. Assessments will now be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2008, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The Dodd-Frank Act will increase stockholder influence over boards of directors by requiring companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and by authorizing the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. Further, the legislation requires that originators of securitized loans retain a percentage of the risk for transferred loans, directs the Federal Reserve Board to regulate pricing of certain debit card interchange fees and contains a number of reforms related to mortgage origination. 43 It is difficult to predict at this time what effect the new legislation and implementing regulations will have on community banks with regard to the lending and credit practices of such banks. Moreover, many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will not take effect for at least a year, and the legislation requires various federal agencies to promulgate numerous and extensive implementing regulations over the next several years. Although the substance and scope of these regulations cannot be determined at this time, it is expected that the legislation and implementing regulations, particularly those relating to the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, will increase our operating and compliance costs. Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and our income. In response to the financial crisis of 2008 and early 2009, Congress has taken actions that are intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has taken actions to increase insurance coverage on deposit accounts. In addition, there have been proposals made by members of Congress that would reduce the amount delinquent borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay on their mortgage loans and limit the ability of lenders to foreclose on mortgage collateral. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, or changes in policy, affecting lending and funding practices and liquidity standards. Moreover, bank regulatory agencies have been active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, and have issued many formal enforcement orders requiring capital ratios in excess of regulatory requirements. Bank regulatory agencies, such as the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation, the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors, and not for the protection or benefit of potential investors. In addition, new laws and regulations may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws and regulations may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, the fees we can charge, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Legislative proposals limiting our rights as a creditor may result in credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. If our investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago becomes impaired, our earnings and stockholders’ equity could decrease. We are required to own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank’s advance program. The aggregate cost of our Federal Home Loan Bank common stock as of December 31, 2010 was $1.1 million. Federal Home Loan Bank common stock is not a marketable security and can only be redeemed by the Federal Home Loan Bank. However, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago is currently prohibited by its regulator from repurchasing or redeeming its outstanding stock until its financial condition improves. Federal Home Loan Banks may be subject to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could materially lower their regulatory capital. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, we believe that there is a risk that our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago common stock could be deemed impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause our earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the amount of the impairment charge. 44 System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 45 