Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, readers should carefully consider the following risk factors: Risks Related to Our Business We have experienced a substantial increase in the frequency of defaults on our loans and continuing defaults will result in continuing declines in revenues, cash available for distribution to shareholders. Loan defaults result in a decrease in interest income and may require the establishment of, or an increase in, loan loss reserves. The decrease in interest income resulting from a loan default or defaults may be for a prolonged period of time as we seek to recover, primarily through legal proceedings, the outstanding principal balance, accrued interest and default interest due on a defaulted loan, plus the legal costs incurred in pursuing our legal remedies. Legal proceedings, which may include foreclosure actions and bankruptcy proceedings, are expensive and time consuming. The decrease in interest income, and the costs involved in pursuing our legal remedies will reduce the amount of cash available to meet our expenses. In addition, the decrease in interest income, the costs incurred by us in a defaulted loan situation and increases in loan loss reserves will have an adverse impact on our net income, taxable income, shareholders’ equity, the cash distributions paid by us to our shareholders and our ability to continue to pay cash distributions in the future. In Fiscal 2008, we realized an increase in the number of borrowers defaulting on their monetary obligations to us. At September 30, 2007, we had seven non-earning loans having an aggregate outstanding principal balance of $63,627,000, before loan loss allowances. During Fiscal 2008, nine additional borrowers with an outstanding principal balance of $84,235,000 defaulted in their monetary obligations to us. Of the $147,862,000 in defaulted loans, real properties underlying loans totaling $122,295,000 in principal amount were acquired by us in foreclosure or by deed in lieu of foreclosure in Fiscal 2008 and were reclassified on our books from real estate loans to real estate properties (including real estate properties held for sale) at a book value of $104,828,000, after charge-offs of $17,467,000. Accordingly, real estate loans not earning interest decreased from $63,627,000, before loan loss allowances, at September 30, 2007 to $18,407,000, before loan loss allowances, at September 30, 2008, and real properties, including real properties held for sale, increased from $12,691,000 at September 30, 2007 to $77,012,000 at September 30, 2008, after giving effect to real property sales with a book value of $34,885,000 and impairment charges of $8,160,000 during Fiscal 2008. Non-earning loans represented 13.50% of the principal balance of our outstanding loans and 6.82% of our total assets at September 30, 2008. The non-accrual of interest income on non-earning loans had the effect of reducing our revenues by $8,030,000 in Fiscal 2008 and may continue to reduce our revenues and our net income in Fiscal 2009. Continuing uncertainty in the credit and real estate markets may result in additional defaults by our borrowers in Fiscal 2009. 12 The inability of our borrowers to refinance or sell underlying real property may lead to additional defaults on our loans. Substantially all of our mortgage portfolio is short term and due within one year. In addition, our borrowers are required to pay all or substantially all of the principal balance of our loans at maturity, in most cases with little or no amortization of principal over the term of the loan. In order to satisfy this obligation, at the maturity of a loan a borrower will be required to refinance or sell the property or otherwise raise a substantial amount of cash. The ability to refinance or sell or otherwise raise a substantial amount of cash is dependent upon certain factors which neither we nor our borrowers control, such as national, local and regional business and economic conditions, government economic policies and the level of interest rates. Due to the current credit crisis, institutional lenders have substantially restricted or suspended lending and have increased the costs of borrowing and tightened credit standards. As a result, our borrowers are finding it very difficult and costly to refinance or sell the property, thereby affecting their ability to repay loans due to us. If a borrower is unable to pay the balance due at maturity and we are not willing to extend or restructure the loan or make other accommodations with a borrower, we will, in most cases, foreclose on the property, which can be expensive and time consuming and will adversely affect our net income, shareholders’ equity and cash distributions to shareholders. We are subject to certain risks associated with borrower concentrations, which causes us to be vulnerable to adverse changes regarding these borrowers. At September 30, 2008, 21 first mortgage loans, representing 62.4% of our loan portfolio, or $85,187,000, to three separate borrowers were outstanding. Nineteen loans, in the aggregate principal amount of $36,312,000, were originated to one borrower, all of which are secured by three commercial redevelopment projects in Newark, New Jersey. We also originated a $26,075,000 loan to a different borrower, securing a commercial property in Manhattan, New York, and a $22,800,000 loan to another borrower, securing a commercial property in Brooklyn, New York; each of these two borrowers intends to convert its property into a residential condominium project. Each individual loan we originate is separately and independently underwritten. All of these loans are currently performing and are secured by first mortgages on commercial real properties. These significant borrowing concentrations cause 62.4% of our portfolio to be subject to the economic conditions of three borrowers. If one or more of these borrowers experience financial or other difficulties in the future, they may default in their obligations, which would result in their loans being reclassified as non-earning. As a result, we would likely foreclose on the property, which will adversely affect our net income, shareholders’ equity and cash distributions to shareholders. Decrease in our loan originations could negatively affect our results of operations. Due to the crisis in the credit and real estate markets, many of our borrowers and potential borrowers have less of a need for our short-term lending, as their activity in the real estate markets slowed or was curtailed. In addition, we were concerned with the ability of potential borrowers to refinance or sell properties in order to repay our loans. As a result, in Fiscal 2008 there was a 45% decrease in the principal amount of loans originated as compared to Fiscal 2007. Unless there are positive changes in the credit markets, the level of originations will continue at a reduced level, which could negatively affect our revenues, net income, shareholders’ equity and cash distributions to shareholders. 13 Our allowance for loan losses and impairment charges against owned real estate may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Our loan losses could exceed the allowance for loan losses that we have recorded in our financial statements, and impairment charges against the value of real estate acquired by us in foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure may ultimately prove to be inadequate. We establish and maintain an allowance for loan losses to manage the risk associated with loan defaults. We also take impairment charges to reduce the value of real estate property owned by us, if in our judgment, the value of the real estate property owned has declined. Regardless of the underwriting criteria utilized at the time of origination or valuation allowances taken with respect to loans or impairment charges taken with respect to real estate owned, losses may be experienced as a result of specific or systemic factors beyond our control, including, among other things, an economic recession and changes in market conditions affecting the value of our loan collateral and real estate assets. As of September 30, 2008, our allowance for loan losses was $6,710,000 compared to $8,917,000 as of September 30, 2007. In addition, at September 30, 2008, real estate owned by us, which was acquired by foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure, had a book value of $73,853,000, after $17,467,000 in loan loss allowances taken against the loans prior to acquisition, and $8,160,000 in impairment charges taken against real property assets after acquisition. The allowance for loan losses and the impairment charges against owned real property reflects our estimate of the probable losses in our loan portfolio and our estimate of real property values at the relevant balance sheet date. Our allowance for loan losses and impairment charges against owned real property are based on an evaluation of known risks and economic factors. The determination of an appropriate level of loan loss allowances and impairment charges is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses and future impairment of real estate is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control and these losses may exceed current estimates. Our allowance for loan losses and impairment charges may not be adequate to cover actual losses and we may need to take additional reserves and charges in the future. Actual losses and additional allowances and impairment charges in the future could materially and adversely affect our business, net income, shareholders’ equity and cash distributions to our shareholders. A prolonged economic slowdown or a lengthy or severe recession could harm our operations. Declines in the U.S. economy, severe liquidity issues in the credit markets and the resulting decline in the real estate markets in Fiscal 2008, contributed to significant defaults by our borrowers, a significant reduction in our loan originations and increased provisions for loan losses and impairment charges on our assets. If the decline in the U.S. economy does not stabilize and reverse in 2009, we will likely experience an additional decline in loan originations and increases in loan losses and asset impairment charges in Fiscal 2009. Borrowers may also be less able to pay principal and interest on loans if the economy continues to weaken. Declining real property values also would increase loan-to-value ratios on our loans and, therefore, weaken our collateral coverage and increase the possibility of a loss if a borrower defaults. Any sustained period of increased defaults and foreclosures would adversely affect our interest income, financial condition, business prospects and our ability to make cash distributions to our shareholders. If a significant number of our mortgage loans are in default or we otherwise must write down our loans, a breach of our revolving credit facility could occur. Our revolving credit facility with Capital One Bank, VNB New York Corp., Signature Bank and Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company includes financial covenants that require us to maintain certain financial ratios, including a debt service coverage ratio and an equity to indebtedness ratio. If additional mortgage loans held by us go into default or if generally accepted accounting principles require us to take additional significant loan loss reserves against our loans or significant impairment charges against our real estate assets, our financial position could be materially adversely affected causing us to be in breach of the financial covenants. A breach by us of the covenants to maintain the financial ratios would place us in default under our revolving credit facility, and, if the banks called a default and required us to repay the full amount outstanding under the revolving credit facility, we might be required to rapidly dispose of assets, which could have an adverse impact on the amounts we receive on such disposition. If we are unable to dispose of assets in a timely fashion to the satisfaction of the banks, the banks could foreclose on that portion of our loan portfolio pledged to the banks as collateral, which could result in the disposition of loans at below market values. The disposition of loans at below our carrying value would adversely affect our net income, reduce our shareholders’ equity and adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions to our shareholders. 14 Failure to have an adequate funding source would adversely affect our results. Our loan originations require us to have adequate funds available in order to originate loans. Our primary source of funds for our originations is our revolving credit facility. In the event that our lending banks determine not to satisfy our loan draw down requests or do not renew our credit facility upon its expiration in February 2010 on terms that are acceptable to us, we will be forced to secure additional funding sources in order to continue originating loans. Under the current market conditions, the availability of both debt and equity funding has contracted severely. The failure to secure financing on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts could reduce our taxable income by limiting our ability to originate loans and increasing our financing expenses. A reduction in our revenues, net income and taxable income could impair our liquidity and our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. We cannot assure you that any or sufficient funding will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. Financing with high loan-to-value ratios may involve increased risk of loss and may adversely affect us. Our primary source of recovery in the event of a loan default is the real property underlying a defaulted loan. Therefore, the value of our loan depends upon the value of the underlying real property. The value of the underlying property is dependent on numerous factors outside of our control, including national, regional and local business and economic conditions, government economic policies and the level of interest rates. A loan-to-value ratio is the ratio of the amount of our financing, plus the amount of any senior indebtedness, if any, to the estimated market value of the property underlying a loan, as determined by our internal valuation process. In the current economic environment, the market value of real property underlying many of our loans is less than the market value at the time the loan commitment was issued and the loan funded. The higher the loan to value ratio, the greater the risk that the amount obtainable from sale of a property (including a foreclosure or bankruptcy sale) may be insufficient to repay the loan in full upon default. The geographic concentration of our portfolio may make our revenues and the value of our portfolio vulnerable to adverse changes in local economic conditions. Although we originate and hold for investment loans secured by real property located anywhere in the United States, 85% of our outstanding loans are secured by properties located in New York and New Jersey. A lack of geographical diversification makes our mortgage portfolio more sensitive to local or regional economic conditions. In particular, if the current economic crisis causes a more dramatic decline in the economies of these two states compared with the rest of the United States, this could result in a greater risk of default under our loans compared with the default rate for loans secured by properties in other states. This could result in a reduction of our revenues, increases in our loan loss allowances and impairment charges and a reduction of our net income, which reductions and increases may not be as acute if our portfolio were more geographically diverse. Our revenues and the value of our portfolio are affected by a number of factors that affect investments in real property generally. We are subject to the general risks of the real estate market. These include adverse changes in national and local economic conditions, demographics, retailing trends and traffic patterns, competitive overbuilding, casualty losses and other factors beyond our control. The value of the collateral underlying our loans, as well as the real property owned by us and by joint ventures in which we are an equity participant, also may be negatively affected by factors such as the cost of complying with environmental regulations and liability under applicable environmental laws, interest rate changes and the availability of financing. Income from a commercial or multifamily residential property will also be adversely affected if a significant number of tenants are unable to pay rent, if tenants terminate or cancel leases or if available space cannot be rented on favorable terms. Operating and other expenses of properties, particularly significant expenses such as real estate taxes, maintenance costs and casualty and liability insurance costs, generally do not decrease when income decreases and even if revenues increase, operating and other expenses may increase faster than revenues. 15 Failure to pay interest on our debt may adversely affect us. Default in making interest payments on debt could affect our ability to fund our operations. As of September 30, 2008, we had approximately $56,702,000 of trust preferred securities outstanding, maturing in 2036. Payments of interest under the instruments governing the trust preferred securities, totaling $1,187,000 per quarter, must be paid before we can pay dividends on our common shares. As of September 30, 2008, we had a revolving credit facility of $185,000,000, of which $51,000,000 was available and $3,000,000 was outstanding. As of November 30, 2008, $6,000,000 is outstanding under this facility. This facility matures in February 2010. Our failure to pay interest or principal on the facility would result in a default by us, and the lenders under the facility could require the immediate payment of all amounts outstanding under the facility. This would negatively affect our liquidity position, operations and restrict our ability to originate loans. The increased risk of loans secured by undeveloped land may harm our results of operations. We provide loans that are secured by undeveloped land. Loans secured by undeveloped land, aggregating $21,354,000, before allowance for loan losses, represented 15.6% of our loan portfolio at September 30, 2008. We also have acquired by deed-in-lieu of foreclosure undeveloped land which is recorded on our books at $10,436,000, after taking into account a charge-off of $4,050,000. Land loans are subject to a higher risk of default because such properties are not income producing properties. In addition, the market value of such properties is volatile. Although we only make loans on undeveloped land if entitlements and zoning is in place for the intended use, there is always the risk that entitlements and zoning may be changed or lapse. Consequently, in the event of a default and foreclosure, we may not be able to sell such property for an amount equal to our investment. As a result, we may lose a significant portion of our investment, adversely affecting our net income, shareholders’ equity and cash distributions to our shareholders. In the event of a default of a loan secured by undeveloped land, we may elect to hold the property until the market becomes more favorable. In such case during the holding period, which may likely be for a longer period of time than the holding period for income producing real property, we will not receive any income from this property and we will be required to pay the costs of carrying the property, primarily real estate taxes, which could adversely affect our net income, shareholders’ equity and cash distributions to shareholders. We are subject to the risks associated with loan participations, such as lack of full control rights. Some of our investments are participating interests in loans in which we share the rights, obligations and benefits of the loan with participating lenders pursuant to a participation agreement. We may need the consent of these parties to exercise our rights under such loans, including rights with respect to amendment of loan documentation, the institution of, and control over, foreclosure actions entering into forebearance agreements with borrowers, and sale of the underlying property upon acquisition in foreclosure. In addition, if under the participation agreement our participation represents a minority or junior interest, the other participants may be able to take actions which are not consistent with our interests or objectives. 16 We may have less control of our investment when we invest in joint ventures. We have made loans to, and acquired equity interests in, joint ventures that own income producing real property. At September 30, 2008, our equity investment in these joint ventures aggregated $9,669,000. Our co-venturers may have different interests or goals than we do and our co-venturers may not be able or willing to take an action that is desired by us. A disagreement with respect to the activities of the joint venture could result in a substantial diversion of time and effort by our management and could result in our exercise, or one of our co-venturers exercise, of the buy/sell provision typically contained in our joint venture organizational documents. In addition, there is no limitation under our charter documents as to the amount of funds that we may invest in joint ventures. Accordingly, we may invest a substantial amount of our funds in joint ventures which ultimately may not be profitable as a result of disagreements with and among our co-venturers. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we foreclose on defaulted loans and take title to real property. We could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to governmental entities or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property, even if the environmental issues arose prior to our ownership of the property . The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination associated with the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive market. We have significant competition in our business. We compete with many third parties engaged in finance and real estate investment activities, including other REITs, specialty finance companies, savings and loan associations, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, mutual funds, institutional investors, investment banking firms, lenders, governmental bodies and other entities. Some of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources than we do and generally may be able to accept more risk. As such, they have the ability to make larger loans and to reduce the risk of loss from any one loan by having a more diversified loan portfolio. They may also enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, enhanced operating efficiencies. An increase in the availability of funds to lenders, or a decrease in the amount of borrowing activity, may increase competition for making loans and may reduce obtainable yields or increase the credit risk inherent in the available loans. The credit crisis has severely and adversely impacted mortgage lending activities by institutional lenders, specialty companies and others engaged in commercial mortgage lending activities, and it has been extremely difficult for owners or buyers of real estate to refinance or to finance an acquisition. In the normal course, we would expect a business environment of the type we are presently experiencing to provide us with opportunities. However, the extreme difficulty in finding long-term financing has significantly reduced, and in some cases eliminated, potential borrowers from acquiring real properties, development activity, condominium conversion and repositioning or upgrading real property. Although we believe that we are in a position to originate short term bridge loans without significant competition, the flow of business has been limited and we have been more cautious in our loan approvals. Changes in interest rates may adversely affect our results of operations. Our results of operations are likely to be harmed during any period of unexpected or rapid changes in interest rates. A substantial or sustained increase in interest rates could harm our ability to originate mortgage loans or acquire participations in mortgage loans. Interest rate fluctuations may also harm our earnings by causing an increase in mortgage prepayments or by changing the spread between the interest rates on our borrowings and the interest rates on our mortgage assets. 17 Our revenues and the value of our portfolio may be negatively affected by casualty events occurring on properties securing our loans. We require our borrowers to obtain, for our benefit, comprehensive insurance covering the property and any improvements to the property collateralizing our loan in an amount intended to be sufficient to provide for the cost of replacement in the event of casualty. In addition, joint ventures in which we are an equity participant carry comprehensive insurance covering the property and any improvements to the property owned by the joint venture for the cost of replacement in the event of a casualty. Further, we carry insurance for such purpose on properties owned by us. However, the amount of insurance coverage maintained for any property may not be sufficient to pay the full replacement cost following a casualty event. In addition, the rent loss coverage under a policy may not extend for the full period of time that a tenant may be entitled to a rent abatement that is a result of, or that may be required to complete restoration following a casualty event. In addition, there are certain types of losses, such as those arising from earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and terrorist attacks, that may be uninsurable or that may not be economically insurable. Changes in zoning, building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors may make it impossible for our borrower, a joint venture or us, as the case may be, to use insurance proceeds to replace damaged or destroyed improvements at a property. If any of these or similar events occur, the amount of coverage may not be sufficient to replace a damaged or destroyed property and/or to repay in full the amount due on all loans collateralized by such property. As a result, our returns and the value of our investment may be reduced. Senior management and other key personnel are critical to our business and our future success may depend on our ability to retain them. We depend on the services of Fredric H. Gould, chairman of our board of trustees, Jeffrey A. Gould, our president and chief executive officer, and other members of senior management to carry out our business and investment strategies. Jeffrey A. Gould devotes a limited amount of his business time to entities affiliated with us. In addition to Jeffrey A. Gould, only three other executive officers, Mitchell Gould, our executive vice president, Lonnie Halpern, a vice president and George Zweier our vice president and chief financial officer, and three other executive personnel devote substantially all of their business time to us. The remainder of our executive management personnel share their services on a part-time basis with entities affiliated with us and located in the same executive offices pursuant to a shared services agreement. We rely on part-time executive officers to provide certain services to us, including legal, accounting and computer services, since we do not employ full-time executive officers to handle these services. If the shared services agreement is terminated, we will have to obtain such services or hire employees to perform them. We may not be able to replace these services or hire such employees in a timely manner or on terms, including cost and level of expertise, that are as favorable as those we receive under the shared services agreement. In addition, in the future we may need to attract and retain qualified senior management and other key personnel, both on a full-time and part-time basis. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or other key personnel or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could impair our ability to carry out our business and our investment strategies. We do not carry key man life insurance on members of our senior management. Our transactions with affiliated entities involve conflicts of interest. Entities affiliated with us and with certain of our executive officers provide services to us and on our behalf and we intend to continue the relationships with such entities in the future. Although our policy is to obtain terms in transactions with affiliates that are at least as favorable as those that we would receive if the transactions were entered into with unaffiliated entities, these transactions raise the potential that we may not receive terms as favorable as those that we would receive if the transactions were entered into with unaffiliated entities. 18 Risks Related to the REIT Industry Failure to qualify as a REIT would result in material adverse tax consequences and would significantly reduce cash available for distributions. We operate so as to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of technical and complex legal provisions for which there are limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In addition, no assurance can be given that legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the Federal income tax consequences of such qualification. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to Federal, state and local income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates and would not be allowed a deduction in computing our taxable income for amounts distributed to shareholders. In addition, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification is lost. The additional tax would reduce significantly our net income and the cash available for distributions to shareholders. We are subject to certain distribution requirements that may result in our having to borrow funds at unfavorable rates. To obtain the favorable tax treatment associated with being a REIT, we are required, among other things, to distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our ordinary taxable income (subject to certain adjustments) each year. To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we are subject to Federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we are subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which certain distributions paid by us with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. As a result of differences in timing between the receipt of income and the payment of expenses, and the inclusion of such income and the deduction of such expenses in arriving at taxable income, and the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves and the timing of required debt service (including amortization) payments, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis in order to make the distributions to our shareholders necessary to retain the tax benefits associated with qualifying as a REIT, even if we believe that then prevailing market conditions are not generally favorable for such borrowings. Such borrowings could reduce our net income and the cash available for distributions to our shareholders. Compliance with REIT requirements may hinder our ability to maximize profits. In order to qualify as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning among other things, our sources of income, the amounts we distribute to our shareholders and the ownership of securities. We may also be required to make distributions to shareholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Accordingly, compliance with REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must also ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of such issuer. In addition, no more than 5% of the value of our assets can consist of the securities of any one issuer, other than a qualified REIT security. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we must dispose of the portion of our assets in excess of such amounts within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter in order to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences. This requirement could cause us to dispose of assets for consideration of less than their true value and could lead to a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 19 We cannot assure you of our ability to pay dividends in the future. We intend to make distributions to our shareholders in amounts such that all or substantially all of our taxable income in each year, subject to certain adjustments, is distributed within the time frames prescribed by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, with respect to REITs. This, along with other factors, should enable us to qualify for the tax benefits accorded to a REIT under the Code. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level and our ability to pay dividends is adversely affected by the risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All distributions are made at the discretion of our board of trustees and will depend on our earnings, taxable income, financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status and such other factors as our board of trustees may deem relevant from time to time. Our board of trustees suspended the payment of dividends on our common shares commencing with the next dividend payment date, the first business day of January, 2009. Since we will likely report a tax loss for the year ended December 31, 2008, no distributions are likely to be required in 2009 for us to retain our REIT status. In view of the problems facing the real estate industry and the Trust at the present time, and the need to preserve capital, the board considered it prudent to suspend the payment of dividends. Our board of trustees will review the dividend policy at each regularly scheduled quarterly board meeting. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 20 Executive Officers of Registrant Set forth below is a list of our executive officers whose terms will expire at our 2009 annual Board of Trustees’ meeting. The business history of officers who are also Trustees will be provided in our proxy statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than January 28, 2009. Name Office Fredric H. Gould* Chairman of the Board of Trustees Jeffrey A. Gould* President and Chief Executive Officer; Trustee Mitchell K. Gould Executive Vice President Matthew J. Gould* Senior Vice President; Trustee Simeon Brinberg** Senior Vice President; Senior Counsel; and Secretary David W. Kalish Senior Vice President, Finance Israel Rosenzweig Senior Vice President Mark H. Lundy** Senior Vice President, General Counsel; and Assistant Secretary George E. Zweier Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Lonnie Halpern Vice President * Fredric H. Gould is the father of Jeffrey A. and Matthew J. Gould. ** Simeon Brinberg is the father-in-law of Mark H. Lundy. Mitchell K. Gould (age 36), employed by us since May 1998, has been a Vice President since March 1999 and Executive Vice President since March 2007. From January 1998 until May 1998, Mr. Gould was employed by Bear Stearns Companies, Inc. where he was engaged in originating and underwriting commercial real estate loans for securitization. Simeon Brinberg (age 74) has been our Secretary since 1983, a Senior Vice President since 1988, and Senior Counsel since March 2006. Mr. Brinberg has been a Vice President of Georgetown Partners, Inc., the managing general partner of Gould Investors L.P., since October 1988. Gould Investors L.P. is primarily engaged in the ownership and operation of real estate properties held for investment. Since June 1989, Mr. Brinberg has been a Vice President of One Liberty Properties, Inc. (currently a Senior Vice President), a REIT engaged in the ownership of income producing real properties leased to tenants under long term leases. Mr. Brinberg is a member of the New York Bar and was engaged in the private practice of law for approximately 30 years prior to 1988. David W. Kalish (age 61) has been our Senior Vice President, Finance since August 1998. Mr. Kalish was our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from June 1990 until August 1998. He has been Chief Financial Officer of One Liberty Properties, Inc. and Georgetown Partners, Inc. since June 1990. For more than five years prior to June 1990, Mr. Kalish, a certified public accountant, was a partner of Buchbinder Tunick & Company LLP and its predecessors. Israel Rosenzweig (age 61) has been a Senior Vice President since April 1998. Mr. Rosenzweig has been a Vice President of Georgetown Partners, Inc. since May 1997 and since 2000 has been President of GP Partners, Inc., an affiliate of Gould Investors L.P. which is engaged in providing advisory services in the real estate and financial services industries to an investment advisor. He also has been a Senior Vice President of One Liberty Properties, Inc. since May 1997. 21 Mark H. Lundy (age 46) has been our General Counsel and Assistant Secretary since March 2007 and a Senior Vice President since March 2005. Prior to March 2005 and from 1993 he was a Vice President. He has been the Secretary of One Liberty Properties, Inc. since June 1993 and he also serves as a Senior Vice President of One Liberty Properties, Inc. Mr. Lundy has been a Vice President of Georgetown Partners, Inc. (currently Senior Vice President) since July 1990. He is a member of the bars of New York and Washington, D.C. George E. Zweier (age 44) has been employed by us since June 1998 and was elected Vice President, Chief Financial Officer in August 1998. For approximately five years prior to joining us, Mr. Zweier, a certified public accountant, was an accounting officer with the Bank of Tokyo--Mitsubishi Limited in its New York office. Lonnie Halpern (age 33) has been employed by us since August 2005 and was elected a Vice President in March 2007. Mr. Halpern is a member of the bars of New York and Massachusetts, and was an associate at Goodwin Procter LLP, New York, N.Y. from September 2001 to March 2004 and Hogan & Hartson LLP, New York, N.Y. from April 2004 to July 2005. 