Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making a decision to invest in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only ones we face. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business The network traffic visibility market is rapidly evolving and difficult to predict. If the network traffic visibility market does not evolve as we anticipate or if our target end-user customers do not adopt our Traffic Visibility Fabric, our sales will not grow as quickly as anticipated and our stock price could decline. We are in a new, rapidly evolving category within the network infrastructure industry that focuses on providing organizations with enhanced visibility and control over their networks through the efficient collection and analysis of network traffic. As such, it is difficult to predict important market trends, including how large the network traffic visibility market will be or when and what products end-user customers will adopt. For example, organizations that currently use traditional approaches may believe that these approaches already provide them with sufficient network traffic visibility. Therefore, they may continue spending their network infrastructure budgets on these products and may not adopt our Traffic Visibility Fabric in addition to or in lieu of such products. If the market for network traffic visibility does not evolve in the way we anticipate, if organizations do not recognize the benefit our Traffic Visibility Fabric offers in addition to or in place of existing network traffic visibility products, or if we are unable to sell our family of products to end-user customers, then our revenue may not grow as expected or may decline, and our stock price could decline. New or existing technologies that are perceived to address network traffic visibility or address the need for network traffic visibility in different ways could gain wide adoption and supplant our products, thereby weakening our sales and our financial results. The introduction of products and services embodying new technologies could render our existing products obsolete or less attractive to end-user customers. Other network traffic visibility technologies exist and could be developed in the future, and our business could be materially negatively affected if such technologies are widely adopted. We may not be able to successfully anticipate or adapt to changing technology or customer requirements on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to keep up with technological changes or to convince our end-user customers and potential end-user customers of the value of our solutions even in light of new technologies, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We are dependent on a single product family comprised of a limited number of products. Our product offering is limited to a single product family comprised of our GigaVUE, GigaSECURE, GigaSMART and GigaTAP products. Historically, we have derived a substantial portion of our revenue from sales of our GigaVUE appliances and related services, and we expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our product revenue from sales of our GigaVUE appliances and related services for the foreseeable future. A decline in the price of these products and related services, whether due to competition or otherwise, or our inability to increase sales of these products, would 17 Table of Contents harm our business and operating results more seriously than it would if we derived significant revenue from a variety of product lines and services. GigaSECURE, GigaSMART, GigaTAP and related support services represent additional sources of revenue, however, collectively they accounted for a small portion of revenue in fiscal 2013 and 2012. We expect that this concentration of revenue from a single product family comprised of a limited number of products will continue for the foreseeable future. As a result, our future growth and financial performance will depend heavily on our ability to develop and sell enhanced versions of our GigaVUE appliances. If we fail to deliver product enhancements, new releases or new products that end-user customers want, it will be more difficult for us to succeed. If we are unable to introduce new products successfully and to make enhancements to existing products, our growth rates would likely decline and our business, operating results and competitive position could suffer. Our continued success depends on our ability to identify and develop new products and to enhance and improve our existing products, and the acceptance of those products by our existing and target end-user customers. Our growth would likely be adversely affected if: • we fail to introduce these new products or product enhancements; • our new products or product enhancements are not timely introduced or do not function as expected; • we fail to successfully manage the transition to new products from the products they are replacing; • we do not invest our development efforts in appropriate products or enhancements for markets in which we now compete and expect to compete; • we fail to predict the demand for new products following their introduction to market; or • these new products or enhancements do not attain market acceptance. We invest substantial amounts of time and resources in researching and developing new products and enhancing existing products by incorporating additional features, improving functionality and adding other improvements to meet end-user customers’ rapidly evolving demands in our highly competitive industry. Our research and development expenses were $42.1 million, or 30% of our total revenue, in fiscal 2013, $17.7 million, or 18% of our total revenue, in fiscal 2012 and $12.5 million, or 18% of our total revenue, in fiscal 2011. Our future plans contemplate significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, we often make these investments without being certain that they will result in products or enhancements that the markets will accept or that they will expand our share of those markets. The introduction of new products or product enhancements may shorten the life cycle of our existing products, or replace sales of some of our current products, thereby offsetting the benefit of even a successful product introduction, and may cause end-user customers to defer purchasing our existing products in anticipation of the new products. This could harm our operating results by decreasing sales, increasing our inventory levels of older products and exposing us to greater risk of product obsolescence. We have also experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in developing and releasing new products and product enhancements. This has led to, and may in the future lead to, delayed sales, deferred revenue, increased expenses and lower than anticipated quarterly revenue. In addition, complexity and difficulties in managing product transitions at the end-of-life stage of a product can create excess inventory of components associated with the outgoing products that can lead to increased expenses. Any or all of the above problems could materially harm our business and operating results. 18 Table of Contents If we are unable to increase market awareness of our company and our products, our revenue may not continue to grow, or may decline. The network traffic visibility market is nascent and we believe that we have not yet established broad market awareness of our products and services. Market awareness of our value proposition and products and services will be essential to our continued growth and our success, particularly for the service provider and large enterprise markets. If our marketing efforts are unsuccessful in creating market awareness of our company and our products and services, then our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected, and we will not be able to achieve sustained growth. Our quarterly and annual operating results may vary significantly and be difficult to predict, which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied historically from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: • fluctuations in demand for our products and services, the timing of orders from our channel partners and end-user customers, and our ability to accurately forecast end-user customer demand; • the timing of shipments of products, which may depend on many factors such as inventory and logistics and our ability to ship new products on schedule and accurately forecast inventory requirements; • the budgeting cycles and internal purchasing priorities of our end-user customers; • seasonal buying patterns of our end-user customers; • changes in end-user customer or channel partner requirements or market needs; • the mix of products sold and the mix of revenue between products and services; • changes in the growth rate of the network traffic visibility market and related markets, such as the network infrastructure market, and the market for network management, analysis, compliance and security tools; • our ability to control costs, including operating expenses, the costs of hardware and software components, and other manufacturing costs; • our ability to timely develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for new products, technologies and services; • price competition; • any significant changes in the competitive environment, including the entry of new competitors, and any related discounting of products or services; • the timing and execution of product transitions or new product introductions, and related inventory costs; • deferral of orders from end-user customers in anticipation of new products or product enhancements announced by us or our competitors; • decisions by potential end-user customers to purchase alternative network traffic visibility solutions from their existing network infrastructure vendors or other third parties; • our ability to establish and manage our distribution channels, and the effectiveness of any changes we make to our distribution model; • the ability of our suppliers and contract manufacturers to provide component parts and finished products in a timely manner; 19 Table of Contents • changes in end-user customer renewal rates for our services and our ability to up-sell additional products; • general economic conditions, both domestically and in our foreign markets; • the timing of revenue recognition for our sales, which may be affected by the mix of sales by our channel partners; and • future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies. Any one of the factors above or the cumulative effect of some of the factors referred to above may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results, including fluctuations in our key performance indicators. This variability and unpredictability could result in our failure to meet our internal operating plan or the expectations of securities analysts or investors for any period. In addition, a significant percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in nature in the short term and based on forecasted revenue trends. Accordingly, in the event of revenue shortfalls, we are generally unable to mitigate the negative impact on margins in the short term. If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our shares could fall substantially and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. We compete in highly competitive markets, and competitive pressures from existing and new companies may adversely impact our business and operating results. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive. We expect competition to intensify in the future as existing competitors bundle new and more competitive offerings with their existing products and services, and as new market entrants introduce new products into our markets. This competition could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and our failure to increase, or the loss of, market share, any of which would likely seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We also expect that competition will continue to increase as a result of advancements in networking technology and architecture. For example, recently there has been increased focus on software-defined networking, or SDN, which could significantly alter the way in which networks are architected and implemented, and certain of our competitors have publicized an approach to use SDN technology to provide network visibility. If we do not keep pace with product and technology advances and otherwise keep our product offerings competitive, there could be a material and adverse effect on our competitive position, revenue and prospects for growth. We compete either directly or indirectly with large Ethernet switch vendors, such as Cisco Systems, Inc., Juniper Networks, Inc., Brocade Systems Communications, Inc. and Arista Networks, Inc., and network management, analysis, compliance and security tool vendors that offer point solutions that address a portion of the issues that we solve. The principal competitive factors in our markets include functionality and performance, price and total cost of ownership, ease of use, flexibility and scalability of deployment, brand awareness, breadth of portfolio, product reliability and quality, interoperability with other products, the extent and speed of user adoption and quality of service, support and fulfillment. Many of our current and potential competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial, technical, research and development, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution and other resources and greater name recognition. We could also face competition from new market entrants, including our joint-development partners or other current technology partners. In addition, many of our existing and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages, such as: • longer operating histories; • the capacity to leverage their sales efforts and marketing expenditures across a broader portfolio of products; 20 Table of Contents • broader distribution and established relationships with channel partners; • access to larger customer bases; • greater resources to make acquisitions; • larger intellectual property portfolios; • the ability to bundle competitive offerings with other products and services; and • greater customer support. As a result, increased competition could result in fewer customer orders, price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share. Our competitors also may be able to provide end-user customers with capabilities or benefits different from or greater than those we can provide in areas such as technical qualifications or geographic presence, or to provide end-user customers a broader range of products, services and prices. In addition, some of our larger potential competitors have substantially broader product offerings and could leverage their relationships based on other products or incorporate functionality into existing products to gain business in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products, including through selling at zero or negative margins, product bundling or closed technology platforms. These larger potential competitors may also have more extensive relationships within existing and potential end-user customers that provide them with an advantage in competing for business with those end-user customers. In addition, to the extent that one of our competitors establishes or strengthens a cooperative relationship with, or acquires one or more of the network management, analysis, compliance and security tool vendors that we have active and ongoing joint-development relationships with, it could adversely affect our ability to compete. Our ability to compete will depend upon our ability to provide a better solution than our competitors at a competitive price. To remain competitive, we may be required to make substantial additional investments in research, development, marketing and sales in order to respond to competition, and there is no assurance that these investments will achieve any returns for us or that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. We also expect increased competition if our market continues to expand. Conditions in our market could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements or other factors. In addition, current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties that have greater resources available. As a result of these acquisitions, our current or potential competitors might take advantage of the greater resources of the larger organization to compete more aggressively against us. Defects in our products could harm our reputation and business. Our products are complex and have contained and may contain undetected defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. Defects in our products may impede or block network traffic or cause our products to fail to provide network traffic visibility as intended. Further, defects in our products may lead to the impairment of tools that rely on data. Defects in our products may lead to product returns and require us to implement design changes or software updates. Any defects or errors in our products, or the perception of such defects or errors, could result in: • expenditure of significant financial and product development resources in efforts to analyze, correct, eliminate or work around errors or defects; • loss of existing or potential end-user customers or channel partners; • delayed or lost revenue; • delay or failure to attain market acceptance; 21 Table of Contents • delay in the development or release of new products or services; • negative publicity, which will harm our reputation; • warranty claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts; • an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the expense and risk of litigation; and • harm to our operating results. Although we have limitation of liability provisions in our standard terms and conditions of sale, they may not fully or effectively protect us from claims as a result of federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions in the United States or other countries. The sale and support of our products also entail the risk of product liability claims. We maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage may not adequately cover any claim asserted against us. In addition, even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could result in our expenditure of funds in litigation and divert management’s time and other resources. If we fail to remediate material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting or are unable to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. We must maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in order to accurately and timely report our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning as of the end of our fiscal year 2014, and the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures quarterly. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the New York Stock Exchange, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would diminish investor confidence in our financial reporting and require additional financial and management resources, each of which may adversely affect our business and operating results. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2013, we identified a deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting with respect to our accounting for income taxes, specifically with respect to the treatment of 2013 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or ESPP, related expenses for income tax purposes. Further, in connection with our preparation of our consolidated financial statements, we determined that it would be appropriate to revise our financial statements for the second and third quarters of fiscal 2013 to reflect certain corrections related to our treatment of ESPP-related expenses for income tax purposes and our inventory reserve releases. In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, we concluded that these corrections were not material to any of our previously issued financial statements. However, as a result of these revisions, we have concluded that a material weakness existed in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 28, 2013 related to the accounting for income taxes regarding ESPP-related expenses. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. If we fail to effectively remediate the control deficiency discussed above, we may not be able to prevent a misstatement of the aforementioned account balances or disclosures that could result in a material misstatement to our annual or interim consolidated financial statements in future periods. Accordingly, we determined that this control deficiency constitutes a material weakness. 22 Table of Contents If we fail to effectively remediate this material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to timely and accurately report our financial results, which could subject us to adverse consequences including, but not limited to, regulatory or enforcement actions by the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange. Even if we are able to report our financial statements accurately and in a timely manner, or if we do not make all necessary improvements to address this material weakness, continued disclosure of this material weakness will be required in future filings with the SEC, which could cause our reputation to be harmed and our stock price to decline. Furthermore, we, and our independent registered public accounting firm, were not required to perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 28, 2013, in accordance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we have identified all, or that we will not in the future have additional, material weaknesses. Material weaknesses may still exist when we report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as required by the reporting requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The standards required for a Section 404 assessment under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may in the future require us to implement additional corporate governance practices and adhere to additional reporting requirements. These stringent standards require that our audit committee be advised and regularly updated on management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting. Our management may not be able to effectively and timely implement controls and procedures that adequately respond to the increased regulatory compliance and reporting requirements that are or will be applicable to us as a public company. If we fail to staff our accounting and finance function adequately or maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our business and reputation may be harmed and our stock price may decline. Furthermore, investor perceptions of us may be adversely affected which could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. Our limited operating history makes it difficult for you to evaluate our current business and future prospects, and may increase the risk of your investment. We were founded in 2004 and sold our first products commercially in 2005. We have experienced rapid growth since our inception, and we have been increasing the breadth and scope of our product offerings. The majority of our revenue growth, however, has occurred over the past four years. This limited operating history, as well as the early stage of our relationships with many of our channel partners, makes financial forecasting and evaluation of our business difficult. Furthermore, because we depend in part on the market’s acceptance of our products, it is difficult to evaluate trends that may affect our business. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, such as the risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we do not address these risks successfully, our business and operating results would be adversely affected, and our stock price could decline. Some of the components and technologies used in our products are purchased and licensed from a single source or a limited number of sources. The loss of any of these suppliers might cause us to incur additional transition costs, result in delays in the manufacturing and delivery of our products, or cause us to carry excess or obsolete inventory and could require us to redesign our products. Although supplies of our components are generally available from a variety of sources, we currently depend on a single source or a limited number of sources for most components included in our products. For example, the processors and connectors that we use in the products manufactured by Broadcom Corp., Freescale Semiconductor, Ltd., Cavium, Inc., Tilera Corporation and Molex Inc. are currently available only from a limited number of sources, and neither we nor, to our knowledge, these manufacturers have entered into supply agreements with such sources. We have also entered into license agreements with some of our suppliers for technologies that are used in our products. 23 Table of Contents As there are no other sources for identical components and technologies, if we lost any of these suppliers or were unable to acquire these components or license these technologies, we may not be able to sell our products for a significant period of time, and we could incur significant costs to redesign our hardware and software to incorporate components or technologies from alternative sources or to qualify alternative suppliers. Our reliance on a single source or a limited number of suppliers involves a number of additional risks, including risks related to: • supplier capacity constraints; • price increases; • timely delivery; • component quality; • failure of a key supplier to remain in business and adjust to market conditions; • delays in, or the inability to execute on, a supplier roadmap for components and technologies; and • natural disasters. In addition, for certain components for which there are multiple sources, we are subject to potential price increases and limited availability as a result of market demand for these components. In the past, unexpected demand for computer and network products has caused worldwide shortages of certain electronic parts. If similar shortages occur in the future, our business would be adversely affected. We carry very little inventory of our products, and we and our manufacturer rely on our suppliers to deliver necessary components in a timely manner. We and our manufacturer rely on purchase orders rather than long-term contracts with these suppliers, and as a result we or our manufacturer might not be able to secure sufficient components, even if they were available, at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products in a timely manner and, therefore, might not be able to meet end-user customer demands for our products, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely on third-party channel partners for a substantial portion of our revenue. If our partners fail to perform, our ability to sell our products and services would be limited, and if we fail to optimize our channel partner model going forward, our operating results would be harmed. A substantial portion of our revenue is generated or processed through sales by our channel partners, which include distributors and resellers. While most of our sales opportunities are identified by our internal sales force, we depend upon our channel partners to manage the sales process through the fulfillment of orders and the distribution of our products. In North America we rely on two distributors, Interlink and Arrow, which we engaged as a distributor in February 2013. Interlink accounted for 51%, 63%, and 37% of our revenue in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. To the extent our channel partners are unable to generate an increasing amount of our sales opportunities, are unsuccessful in selling our products, or we are unable to enter into arrangements with, and retain, a sufficient number of high quality channel partners in each of the regions in which we sell products, and keep them motivated to sell our products, our ability to sell our products and operating results would be harmed. The termination of our relationship with any significant channel partner may adversely impact our sales, operating results and revenue growth. We provide sales channel partners with specific programs to assist them in selling our products, but there can be no assurance that these programs will be effective. Our channel partners may be unsuccessful in marketing, selling and supporting our products and services. Our agreements with our channel partners are generally non-exclusive and generally do not contain minimum purchase requirements. Therefore, in most cases our channel partners may also market, sell and support 24 Table of Contents products and services that are competitive with ours, and may devote more resources to the marketing, sale and support of such products. They may have incentives to promote our competitors’ products to the detriment of our own. As is typical in our industry, our channel partners have the ability to terminate their respective relationships with us with limited notice and with limited or no penalty and may cease selling our products altogether. We cannot assure you that we will retain these channel partners or that we will be able to secure additional or replacement channel partners. The loss of one or more of our significant channel partners could harm our operating results. As we add additional channel partners, particularly in North America where we currently rely primarily on a limited number of distributors, we may not be able enter into arrangements on as favorable terms, including with respect to pricing, which could have an adverse effect on our margins. In addition, most new channel partners would require comprehensive training and may take several months or more to achieve productivity. Furthermore, our channel partner sales structure could subject us to lawsuits, potential liability and reputational harm if, for example, any of our channel partners misrepresents the functionality of our products or services to end-user customers or our channel partners violate laws or our corporate policies. If we fail to optimize our channel partner model or fail to manage existing sales channels, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. Our sales efforts involve educating our end-user customers about the use and benefits of our solutions, including their technical capabilities. End-user customers often undertake an evaluation and testing process that can result in a lengthy sales cycle. Also, as our distribution strategy has evolved into more of a channel model, utilizing distributors, the level of variability in the length of sales cycle across transactions has increased and made it more difficult to predict the timing of many of our sales transactions. We spend substantial time and resources on our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales or a material amount of revenue from such sales. In addition, product purchases are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. These factors, among others, have in the past led to, and could continue to result in, long and unpredictable sales cycles. We sell our Traffic Visibility Fabric primarily to enterprise IT departments and service providers. The length of our sales cycles typically ranges from three to six months but can be more than six months, with sales cycles involving service providers taking significantly longer to complete. To the extent that the mix of our future sales shifts in the direction of service providers, the average length of our sales cycles will increase. Furthermore, our sales to federal, state, and local governmental agency end-user customers have increased in recent periods, and we may in the future increase sales to governmental entities. Selling to governmental entities can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that these efforts will generate a sale. As a result of these lengthy and uncertain sales cycles, it is difficult for us to predict when end-user customers may purchase solutions and accept products from us and as a result, our operating results may vary significantly and may be adversely affected. We currently rely on a single contract manufacturer to manufacture our products, and our failure to manage our relationship with our contract manufacturer successfully could negatively impact our business. We rely on Jabil to manufacture substantially all of our products. We recently transitioned our manufacturing to Jabil in an effort to expand and upgrade our manufacturing, systems assembly, testing and order fulfillment capabilities. We entered into a manufacturing services agreement with Jabil in April 2013 with an initial term of one year, and the agreement automatically renews for additional one-year terms, unless it is terminated by either party by giving at least six months written 25 Table of Contents notice before the end of the then-current term. In addition, either party may terminate the agreement (i) for convenience upon nine months written notice by Jabil or upon six months written notice by us, (ii) for cause upon written notice of a material breach and if the other party does not cure such breach within 30 days of such notice, (iii) immediately upon the bankruptcy or insolvency of the other party, or (iv) upon a change of control of either party, subject to applicable notice periods. Our reliance on Jabil reduces our control over the assembly process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, production costs and product supply. For example, we experienced certain product quality issues and delays in delivery of our products to our end-user customers in the second and third quarters of fiscal 2013, and such delays may continue to occur in the future. If we fail to manage our relationship with Jabil effectively, or if Jabil experiences delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in their operations, our ability to ship products to our end-user customers could be impaired and our competitive position and reputation could be harmed. In addition, any adverse change in Jabil’s financial or business condition could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our end-user customers. If we are required to change our contract manufacturer or cannot find a suitable alternative in a timely manner, we may lose revenue, incur increased costs and damage our relationships with our channel partners and end-user customers. In addition, qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing production can be an expensive and lengthy process. If we experience increased demand that Jabil is unable to fulfill, or if Jabil is unable to provide us with an adequate supply of high-quality products for any reason, we could experience a delay in our order fulfillment, and our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. We rely on the availability of licenses to third-party software and other intellectual property. Many of our products and services include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties, and we otherwise use software and other intellectual property licensed from third parties in our business. This exposes us to risks over which we may have little or no control. For example, a licensor may have difficulties keeping up with technological changes or may stop supporting the software or other intellectual property that it licenses to us. Also, it will be necessary in the future to renew certain licenses, expand the scope of certain existing licenses or seek new licenses, relating to various aspects of these products and services, or otherwise relating to our business, which may result in increased license fees. There can be no assurance that the necessary licenses will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, a third party may assert that we or our end-user customers, are in breach of the terms of a license, which could, among other things, give such third party the right to terminate a license, seek damages from us, or both. The inability to obtain or maintain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain or maintain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could result in delays in releases of products and services, and could otherwise disrupt our business, until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, if at all, and integrated into our products and services or otherwise in the conduct of our business. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, the inclusion in our products and services of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis may limit our ability to differentiate our products from those of our competitors. Furthermore, we have entered into a license and services agreement with Tall Maple Systems, Inc., or Tall Maple, pursuant to which we have been granted a perpetual, non-exclusive, worldwide license to certain software code of Tall Maple, which we integrate into the software component of our H Series products and which can be integrated into our other products and applications. In return, we agreed to pay Tall Maple a license fee. The agreement can only be terminated for cause upon written notice of a material breach and if the other party does not cure such breach within 30 days of such notice. If our agreement with Tall Maple is terminated as a result of a material breach by us that we do 26 Table of Contents not timely cure, we may need to identify, license or develop equivalent software, and integrate such replacement software into the software component of our H Series products, which could impede our ability to sell our H Series products until equivalent software is identified, licensed or developed, and integrated. These delays, if they occur, could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Failure to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights could substantially harm our business and operating results. The success of our business depends on our ability to protect and enforce our trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights. We attempt to protect our intellectual property under patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, and through a combination of confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and other methods, all of which offer only limited protection. As of December 28, 2013, we had 15 issued patents in the United States, but this number is relatively small in comparison to some of our competitors and potential competitors. Additionally, as of December 28, 2013, we had 28 pending U.S. patent applications and five corresponding Patent Cooperation Treaty patent applications, and may file additional patent applications in the future. The process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. We may choose not to seek patent protection for certain innovations and may choose not to pursue patent protection in certain jurisdictions. Furthermore, it is possible that our patent applications may not issue as granted patents, that the scope of our issued patents will be insufficient or not have the coverage originally sought, that our issued patents will not provide us with any competitive advantages, and that our patents and other intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. In addition, issuance of a patent does not guarantee that we have an absolute right to practice the patented invention, or that we have the right to exclude others from practicing the claimed invention. As a result, we may not be able to obtain adequate patent protection or to enforce our issued patents effectively. In addition to patented technology, we rely on our unpatented proprietary technology and trade secrets. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technology and trade secrets, unauthorized parties may attempt to misappropriate, reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use them. The contractual provisions that we enter into with employees, consultants, partners, vendors and customers may not prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary technology or intellectual property rights and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary technology or intellectual property rights. Moreover, policing unauthorized use of our technologies, products and intellectual property is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States and where mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be weak. We may be unable to determine the extent of any unauthorized use or infringement of our products, technologies or intellectual property rights. From time to time, we may need to take legal action to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the additional expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products that have enabled us to be successful to date. 27 Table of Contents Assertions by third parties of infringement or other violations by us of their intellectual property rights, or other lawsuits asserted against us, could result in significant costs and substantially harm our business and operating results. Patent and other intellectual property disputes are common in the network infrastructure industry. Some companies in the network infrastructure industry, including some of our competitors, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, which they may use to assert claims against us. Third parties may in the future assert claims of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property rights against us. They may also assert such claims against our end-user customers or channel partners whom we typically indemnify against claims that our products infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of third parties. As the number of products and competitors in our market increase and overlaps occur, claims of infringement, misappropriation and other violations of intellectual property rights may increase. Any claim of infringement, misappropriation or other violation of intellectual property rights by a third party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim and could distract our management from our business. The patent portfolios of our most significant competitors and potential competitors are larger than ours. This disparity between our patent portfolio and the patent portfolios of our most significant competitors may increase the risk that they may sue us for patent infringement and may limit our ability to counterclaim for patent infringement or settle through patent cross-licenses. In addition, future assertions of patent rights by third parties, and any resulting litigation, may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue and against whom our own patents may therefore provide little or no deterrence or protection. We cannot assure you that we are not infringing or otherwise violating any third-party intellectual property rights. An adverse outcome of a dispute may require us to pay substantial damages including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed a third party’s patents or copyrights; cease making, licensing or using solutions that are alleged to infringe or misappropriate the intellectual property of others; expend additional development resources to attempt to redesign our products or services or otherwise to develop non-infringing technology, which may not be successful; enter into potentially unfavorable royalty or license agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies or intellectual property rights; and indemnify our partners and other third parties. Any damages or royalty obligations we may become subject to, and any third-party indemnity we may need to provide, as a result of an adverse outcome could harm our operating results. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required or desirable, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and may require significant royalty payments and other expenditures. In addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. Any of these events could seriously harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Under the indemnification provisions of our standard sales contracts, we agree to defend our customers against third-party claims asserting infringement of certain intellectual property rights, which may include patents, copyrights, trademarks or trade secrets, and to pay judgments entered on such claims. Our exposure under these indemnification provisions is generally limited to the total amount paid by our customer under the agreement. However, certain agreements include indemnification provisions that could potentially expose us to losses in excess of the amount received under the agreement. We have not incurred any material costs in the past as a result of such indemnification obligations, and have not accrued any liabilities related to such obligations in our consolidated financial statements. In addition, we may, from time to time, be a party to other lawsuits in the normal course of our business. Litigation in general, and intellectual property and securities litigation in particular, can be 28 Table of Contents expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. Responding to lawsuits is likely to be expensive and time consuming for us, and could divert our management’s attention from our business. An unfavorable resolution of any lawsuit could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Our use of open source and third-party technology could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our software. We use open source software in our products, and although we monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts. As a result, there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In such an event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our products, to make our proprietary code generally available in source code form, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology and network infrastructure spending may adversely impact our business and operating results. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology, network infrastructure and the market for network analysis, compliance and security tools. In addition, the purchase of our products and services is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. Weak global economic conditions, or a reduction in information technology and network infrastructure spending even if economic conditions improve, could adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and services, higher default rates among our distributors, reduced unit sales and lower or no growth. As global economic conditions continue to be volatile or economic uncertainty remains, trends in information technology and network infrastructure spending also remain unpredictable and subject to reductions due to credit constraints and uncertainties about the future. Unfavorable economic conditions may lead end-customers to delay or reduce purchases of our solutions. Demand for our solutions may not reach our sales targets, or may decline, when there is an economic downturn or economic uncertainty. Our sensitivity to economic cycles and any related fluctuation in demand may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We depend on growth in markets relating to network security, management and analysis, and lack of growth or contraction in one or more of these markets could have a material adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. Demand for our products is linked to, among other things, growth in the size and complexity of network infrastructures and the demand for networking technologies addressing the security, management and analysis of such infrastructures. If this demand declines, our sales, profitability and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Segments of the network infrastructure industry have in the past experienced significant economic downturns. The occurrence of any of these factors in the markets relating to network security, management and analysis could materially adversely affect our sales, profitability and financial condition. Furthermore, these markets are dynamic and evolving. Our future financial performance will depend in large part on continued growth in the number of organizations investing in their network infrastructure and the amount they commit to such investments. The market for network infrastructure may not continue to grow at historic rates, or at all. If this market fails to grow, or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. 29 Table of Contents The market for cloud-based and cloud-focused solutions is at a relatively early stage of development, and if it does not develop or develops more slowly than we expect, our business could be harmed. The market for cloud-based solutions is at an early stage relative to physical appliances and on-premise solutions, and these types of deployments may not achieve or sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. In fiscal 2012, we introduced our first offering for virtualized and cloud-based applications, GigaVUE-VM, and expect to increase sales of GigaVUE-VM and expand the range of our cloud-focused offerings in the future. Many factors may affect the market acceptance of cloud-based and cloud-focused solutions, including: • perceived security capabilities and reliability; • perceived concerns about the ability to scale operations for large enterprise customers; • concerns with entrusting a third party to store and manage critical data; and • the level of configurability or customizability of the solutions. If organizations do not establish a presence in the cloud or do not perceive the benefits of our cloud-focused solutions, or if our competitors or new market entrants are able to develop cloud-focused solutions that are or are perceived to be more effective than ours, this portion of our business may not grow further or may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would adversely affect our business and operating results. The average selling price of our products has decreased from time to time, and may decrease in the future, which may negatively impact gross profits. From time to time, the average selling price of our products has decreased. In the future, it is possible that the average selling prices of our products will decrease in response to competitive pricing pressures, increased sales discounts, new product introductions by us or our competitors or other factors. Such pricing pressures may also be dependent upon the mix of products sold, the mix of revenue between products and services and the degree to which products and services are bundled and sold together for a package price. Therefore, in order to maintain our profitability, we must develop and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis and continually reduce our product costs. Our failure to do so would likely cause our revenue and gross profits to decline, which would harm our business and operating results. In addition, we may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results in the event we experience an erosion of our average selling prices. Managing inventory of our products and product components is complex. Insufficient inventory may result in lost sales opportunities or delayed revenue, while excess inventory may harm our gross margins. Our channel partners may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high, return product or take advantage of price protection (if any) or delay orders in anticipation of new products. They also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them and in response to seasonal fluctuations in customer demand. Furthermore, if the time required to manufacture certain products or ship products increases for any reason, this could result in inventory shortfalls. In addition, for those channel partners that have rights of return, inventory held by such channel partners affects our operating results. Managing our inventory depends significantly on our ability to accurately forecast end-user customer demand for our products. Our inventory management and demand planning systems and related supply chain visibility tools may be inadequate to enable us to effectively manage inventory. Inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain inventory levels that are sufficient to ensure 30 Table of Contents competitive lead times against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. If we ultimately determine that we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices or write-down inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross margins. Alternatively, insufficient inventory levels may lead to shortages that result in delayed revenue or loss of sales opportunities altogether as potential end-user customers turn to competitors’ products that are readily available. If we are unable to effectively manage our inventory and that of our distribution partners, our operating results could be adversely affected. We rely on revenue from support services which may decline, and because we recognize revenue from support services over the term of the relevant service period, downturns or upturns in sales of support services are not immediately reflected in full in our operating results. Although our services revenue has historically accounted for a small percentage of our revenue, it may become a more meaningful part of revenue over time. Sales of new or renewal services contracts may decline and fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including end-user customers’ level of satisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our products and services, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors or reductions in our end-user customers’ spending levels. If our sales of new or renewal services contracts decline, our revenue and revenue growth may decline and our business will suffer. In addition, we recognize services revenue over the term of the relevant service period, which is typically twelve months. As a result, some of the revenue we report each quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from services contracts entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed service contracts in any one quarter will not be fully reflected in revenue in that quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new or renewed sales of our services is not reflected in full in our operating results until future periods. Our services revenue also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional service sales in any period, as revenue from new and renewal service contracts must be recognized over the applicable service period. Furthermore, increases in the average term of services contracts would result in revenue for services contracts being recognized over longer periods of time. Seasonality may cause fluctuations in our revenue and operating results. We have experienced seasonality in our product revenue and operating results in the past, and we believe that we will continue to experience such seasonality in the future. The first quarter of each year is usually our lowest revenue quarter during the year and product revenue typically declines sequentially from the prior fourth quarter. We believe that this results from the procurement, budgeting and deployment cycles of many of our end-user customers. We generally expect an increase in sales in the second half of each year as budgets of our end-user customers for annual capital purchases are being fully utilized. We expect that seasonality will continue to affect our revenue and operating results in the future. Our business and operations have experienced rapid growth, and if we do not appropriately manage any future growth, or are unable to improve our systems and processes, our operating results will be negatively affected. We have experienced rapid growth over the last several years, which has placed a strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. In addition, some of the members of our current management team have only been working together for a short period of time. We also anticipate that additional investments in key channel partnerships and direct-sales personnel, as well as infrastructure and research and development spending, will be required to: • scale our operations and increase productivity; • address the needs of our end-user customers; 31 Table of Contents • further develop and enhance our products and services; • develop new technology; and • expand our markets and opportunity under management, including into new industry verticals and geographic areas. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to manage our growth effectively. To do so, we must continue to increase the productivity of our existing employees and to hire, train and manage new employees as needed. To manage domestic and international growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting processes and procedures, and implement more extensive and integrated financial and business information systems. These additional investments will increase our operating costs, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by reducing expenses in the short term. Moreover, if we fail to scale our operations successfully, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We are dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management and other key employees, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our future performance depends on the continued services and contributions of our senior management and other key employees to execute on our business plan, and to identify and pursue new opportunities and product innovations. The loss of services of senior management or other key employees could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development and strategic objectives. In addition, some of the members of our current management team have only been working together for a short period of time. The loss of the services of our senior management or other key employees for any reason could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. If we are unable to hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would suffer. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly in engineering and sales, may seriously harm our business, financial condition and operating results. None of our key employees has an employment agreement for a specific term, and any of our employees may terminate their employment at any time. Our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be critical to our future success. Competition for highly skilled personnel is frequently intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area, the location in which we have a substantial presence and need for highly-skilled personnel. In addition, a large portion of our employee base is substantially vested in significant stock option grants and restricted stock unit awards, or has received payments from the settlement of their performance units following our IPO. The receipt of shares of common stock upon the exercise of options or the settlement of restricted stock units and the ability to sell their stock on the public market may lead to a larger than normal turnover rate. We intend to continue to issue stock options and restricted stock units as a key component of our overall compensation and employee attraction and retention efforts. In addition, we are required under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, to recognize compensation expense in our operating results for employee stock-based compensation under our equity grant programs, which may negatively impact our operating results and may increase the pressure to limit stock-based compensation. We may not be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs. Also, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited or divulged proprietary or other confidential information. 32 Table of Contents Our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to expand the sales of our products to end-user customers located outside of the United States, and therefore our business will be susceptible to risks associated with international operations. While we currently maintain limited operations outside of the United States, we intend to expand these operations in the future. We have limited experience operating in foreign jurisdictions. Our inexperience in operating our business outside of the United States increases the risk that any international expansion efforts we may undertake will not be successful. In addition, conducting and expanding international operations subjects us to new risks that we have not generally faced in the United States. These include: • exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk; • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, including trade barriers, and different legal standards; • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; • political, social and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and • reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our international business and, consequently, our business, operating results and financial condition. We are dependent on various IT systems, and failures of or interruptions to those systems could harm our business. Many of our business processes depend upon our IT systems, the systems and processes of third parties and on interfaces with the systems of third parties. For example, we rely on Salesforce.com, Inc. for our customer relationship management system. If those systems fail or are interrupted, or if our ability to connect to or interact with one or more networks is interrupted, our processes may function at a diminished level or not at all. This would harm our ability to ship products, and our financial results would likely be harmed. In addition, reconfiguring our IT systems or other business processes in response to changing business needs may be time consuming and costly. To the extent this impacts our ability to react timely to specific market or business opportunities, our financial results would likely be harmed. Failure to comply with laws and regulations could harm our business. Our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies, including agencies responsible for monitoring and enforcing employment and labor laws, workplace safety, product safety, environmental laws, consumer protection laws, anti-bribery laws, import/export controls, federal securities laws and tax laws and regulations. In certain jurisdictions, these regulatory requirements may be more stringent than in the United States. Noncompliance with applicable regulations or requirements could subject us to investigations, sanctions, mandatory product recalls, enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, fines, damages, civil and criminal penalties or injunctions. If any governmental sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or 33 Table of Contents criminal litigation, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, responding to any action will likely result in a significant diversion of management’s attention and resources and an increase in professional fees. Enforcement actions and sanctions could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Governmental regulations affecting the import or export of products could negatively affect our revenue. The U.S. and various foreign governments have imposed controls, export license requirements and restrictions on the import or export of some technologies, especially encryption technology. In addition, from time to time, governmental agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption technology, such as requiring the escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys. Governmental regulation of encryption technology and regulation of imports or exports, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products, could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenue. In addition, failure to comply with such regulations could result in penalties, costs and restrictions on export privileges, which would harm our operating results. Due to the global nature of our business, we could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, or similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions in which we operate, and various international trade and export laws. The global nature of our business creates various domestic and local regulatory challenges. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, or the U.K. Bribery Act, and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit U.S.-based companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, U.S. based companies are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent their transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. We operate in areas of the world that experience corruption by government officials to some degree and, in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our global operations require us to import and export to and from several countries, which geographically stretches our compliance obligations. In addition, changes in such laws could result in increased regulatory requirements and compliance costs which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure that our employees or other agents will not engage in prohibited conduct and render us responsible under the FCPA or the U.K. Bribery Act. If we are found to be in violation of the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act or other anti-bribery laws (either due to acts or inadvertence of our employees, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may expand through acquisitions of, or investments in, other companies, each of which may divert our management’s attention, resulting in additional dilution to our stockholders and consumption of resources that are necessary to sustain and grow our business. Our business strategy may, from time to time, include acquiring complementary products, technologies or businesses. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses in order to expand our product offerings, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution or discount pricing or investments in other companies. Negotiating these transactions can be time consuming, difficult and expensive, and our ability to close these transactions may be subject to third-party approvals, such as government regulation, which are beyond our control. Consequently, we can make no assurance that these transactions, once undertaken and announced, will close. An acquisition or investment may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired companies, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired business choose not to work for us, and we may have difficulty retaining the customers of any 34 Table of Contents acquired business. Acquisitions may also disrupt our ongoing business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for development of our business. Any acquisition or investment could expose us to unknown liabilities. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment would be realized or that we would not be exposed to unknown liabilities. An acquisition could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses or the write-off of goodwill. These challenges related to acquisitions or investments could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our operating results could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include, or may in the future include, those related to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation expense, long-lived assets, excess and obsolete inventory write-downs, warranty reserves and accounting for income taxes including deferred tax assets and liabilities. If we fail to comply with environmental requirements, our business, financial condition, operating results and reputation could be adversely affected. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations including laws governing the hazardous material content of our products and laws relating to the collection of and recycling of electrical and electronic equipment. Examples of these laws and regulations include the European Union, or EU, Restrictions of Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS Directive, and the EU Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, or WEEE Directive, as well as the implementing legislation of the EU member states. Similar laws and regulations have been passed or are pending in China, South Korea, Norway and Japan and may be enacted in other regions, including in the United States, and we are, or may in the future be, subject to these laws and regulations. The RoHS Directive and the similar laws of other jurisdictions ban the use of certain hazardous materials such as lead, mercury and cadmium in the manufacture of electrical equipment, including our products. We do not currently have the policies and procedures in place to ensure that the manufacturer of our physical appliances and major component part suppliers comply with the RoHS Directive requirements. In addition, if there are changes to this or other laws (or their interpretation) or if new similar laws are passed in other jurisdictions, we may be required to reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations. This reengineering and component substitution could result in additional costs to us or disrupt our operations or logistics. The WEEE Directive requires electronic goods producers to be responsible for the collection, recycling and treatment of such products. Changes in interpretation of the directive may cause us to incur costs or have additional regulatory requirements to meet in the future in order to comply with this directive, or with any similar laws adopted in other jurisdictions. 35 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with past, present and future similar laws could result in reduced sales of our products, substantial product inventory write-offs, reputational damage, penalties and other sanctions, which could harm our business and financial condition. We also expect that our products will be affected by new environmental laws and regulations on an ongoing basis. To date, our expenditures for environmental compliance have not had a material impact on our results of operations or cash flows and, although we cannot predict the future impact of such laws or regulations, they will likely result in additional costs and may increase penalties associated with violations or require us to change the content of our products or how they are manufactured, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If our end-user customers are not satisfied with our technical support or professional services, they may choose not to purchase our products and services or to renew service contracts, either of which would adversely impact our business and operating results. Our business relies, in part, on our end-user customers’ satisfaction with the technical support and professional consulting services we provide to support our products. If we fail to provide technical support services that are responsive, satisfy our end-user customers’ expectations and resolve issues that they encounter with our products and services, then they may elect not to purchase or renew annual maintenance and support contracts and they may choose not to purchase additional products and services from us. Accordingly, our failure to provide satisfactory technical support or professional services could have a material and adverse effect on our business and operating results. We may not be able to utilize all of our deferred tax assets. We account for income taxes in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification topic 740, Income Taxes, or ASC 740, which provides for an asset and liability approach to accounting for income taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities represent the future tax consequences of the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities versus the tax bases of assets and liabilities. Under this method, deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible temporary differences, and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences. The process for calculating and determining deferred tax assets and liabilities involves estimating our actual current tax exposure together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our consolidated balance sheets. We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and, to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. As of December 28, 2013, we had net deferred tax assets of $20.9 million. Significant judgment by our management team is required in determining our income tax benefit (provision), our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets. Based on our assessment, it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax asset will be realized through future taxable earnings. In the event that actual results differ from these estimates or we adjust these estimates in future periods we may need to establish a valuation allowance which could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. New regulations related to conflict minerals may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the costs of certain metals used in the manufacturing of our products. As a public company, we are subject to new requirements under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, which will require us to diligence, disclose, and report whether or not our products contain conflict minerals. As a newly public 36 Table of Contents company, we must file our initial report with respect to conflict minerals on or prior to May 31, 2016 for the 2015 calendar year. The implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of the materials used in the manufacture of components used in our products. In addition, we will incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to conducting diligence procedures to determine the sources of conflict minerals that may be used or necessary to the production of our products and, if applicable, potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. It is also possible that we may face reputational harm if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to alter our products, processes or sources of supply to avoid such materials. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management’s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain executive management and qualified board members. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations has increased and may continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increase demand on our systems and resources, particularly after we are no longer an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart our Business Startups Act, or the JOBS Act. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and operating results. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Although we have already hired additional employees to comply with these requirements, we may need to hire more employees in the future or engage outside consultants, which will increase our costs and expenses. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be adversely affected. However, for as long as we remain an “emerging growth company,” we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation 37 Table of Contents and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” We will cease to be an “emerging growth company” upon the earliest of: (i) the end of our fiscal year 2018, (ii) the beginning of our first fiscal year after our annual gross revenues are $1.0 billion or more, (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities or (iv) as of the end of any fiscal year in which the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeded $700 million as of the end of the second quarter of that fiscal year. We also expect that these new rules and regulations will make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee and compensation committee, and qualified executive officers. As a public company, our business and financial condition have become more visible, which we believe may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. If such claims are successful, our business and operating results could be adversely affected, and even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and adversely affect our business and operating results. As a result of being a public company, we are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting. We may not complete our analysis of our internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner, or these internal controls may not be determined to be effective, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. We are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year 2014. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. We are in the very early stages of the costly and challenging process of compiling the system and processing documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would cause the price of our common stock to decline, and we may be subject to investigation or sanctions by the SEC. We are required to disclose changes made in our internal control and procedures on a quarterly basis. To comply with the requirements of being a public company, we may need to undertake various actions, such as implementing new internal controls and procedures and hiring accounting or internal audit staff. Our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until the later of the year following our first annual report 38 Table of Contents required to be filed with the SEC, or the date we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating. Our remediation efforts may not enable us to avoid a material weakness in the future. We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by manmade problems such as terrorism. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or a flood, or a significant power outage could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our corporate headquarters are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, a region known for seismic activity. In addition, natural disasters could affect our manufacturing vendors or logistics providers’ ability to perform services such as manufacturing products on a timely basis and assisting with shipments on a timely basis. In the event our service providers’ information technology systems or manufacturing or logistics abilities are hindered by any of the events discussed above, shipments could be delayed, resulting in missing financial targets, such as revenue and shipment targets, for a particular quarter. Further, if a natural disaster occurs in a region from which we derive a significant portion of our revenue, end-user customers in that region may delay or forego purchases of our products, which may materially and adversely impact our operating results for a particular period. In addition, acts of terrorism could cause disruptions in our business or the business of our manufacturer, logistics providers, partners, end-user customers or the economy as a whole. Given our typical concentration of sales at each quarter end, any disruption in the business of our manufacturer, logistics providers, partners or customers that impacts sales at the end of our quarter could have a significant adverse impact on our quarterly results. All of the aforementioned risks may be augmented if the disaster recovery plans for us and our suppliers prove to be inadequate. To the extent that any of the above results in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or delays in the manufacture, deployment or shipment of our products, our business, financial condition and operating results would be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Owning Our Common Stock Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance. From time to time, we have released, and may continue to release guidance in our quarterly earnings conference call, quarterly earnings releases, or otherwise, regarding our future performance that represents our management’s estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which includes forward-looking statements, has been and will be based on projections prepared by our management. These projections are not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the 39 Table of Contents American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our registered public accountants nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the projections. Accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect to the projections. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. We intend to state possible outcomes as high and low ranges which are intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed but are not intended to imply that actual results could not fall outside of the suggested ranges. The principal reason that we release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such third parties. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions underlying the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results may vary from our guidance and the variations may be material. We undertake no obligation to make revisions or publicly update our guidance in advance of actual results unless required by law. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged to consider all of the information we make publicly available in making an investment decision regarding our common stock and not rely solely upon our guidance. Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth in this “Risk Factors” section could result in the actual operating results being different from our guidance, and the differences may be adverse and material. Our share price has been and may continue to be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Technology stocks have historically experienced high levels of volatility. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. Since shares of our common stock were sold in our IPO in June 2013 at a price of $19.00 per share, the reported high and low sales prices of our common stock have ranged from $23.02 to $41.81 through December 28, 2013. These fluctuations could cause you to lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of technology companies in general, and of companies in our industry; • actual or anticipated changes in our results of operations or fluctuations in our operating results; • whether our operating results meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors; • actual or anticipated changes in the expectations of investors or securities analysts; • actual or anticipated developments in our competitors’ businesses or the competitive landscape generally; • litigation involving us, our industry or both; 40 Table of Contents • regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries or both; • general economic conditions and trends; • major catastrophic events; • sales of large blocks of our stock; or • departures of key personnel. In addition, if the market for technology stocks, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. If our stock price is volatile, we may become the target of securities litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources from our business, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Sales of outstanding shares of our common stock into the market in the future could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly. If our existing stockholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market after the contractual lock-up and other legal restrictions on resale lapse, the trading price of our common stock could decline. There were 31,151,723 shares of common stock outstanding as of December 28, 2013, all of which are freely tradable, unless such shares are held by “affiliates,” as that term is defined in Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. In addition, we have filed a registration statement to register all shares subject to options or restricted stock units that are currently outstanding or that are reserved for future issuance under our equity compensation plans. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock could be influenced by any research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. Securities and industry analysts have only recently commenced research coverage of us. In the event securities or industry analysts who cover our company downgrade our stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. The concentration of ownership among our existing directors, executive officers and principal stockholders will provide them, collectively, with substantial control over us, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. Our directors, executive officers and each of our stockholders who own greater than 5% of our outstanding common stock and their affiliates, in the aggregate, own approximately 42% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, based on the number of shares outstanding as of 41 Table of Contents December 28, 2013. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, will be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any earnings to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. As a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases. We have incurred and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, rules implemented by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange require certain corporate governance practices by public companies. These rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. These rules and regulations may also make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified people to serve on our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee and compensation committee, or as executive officers. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions: • establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board of directors are elected at one time; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of our stockholders; • provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. 42 Table of Contents Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any “interested” stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an “interested” stockholder and which may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 