Item 1A. Risk Factors. Set forth below is a discussion of certain risks affecting our business. The categorization of risks set forth below is meant to help you better understand the risks facing our business and is not intended to limit your consideration of the possible effects of these risks to the listed categories. Any adverse effects arising from the realization of any of the risks discussed, including our financial condition and results of operation, may, and likely will, adversely affect many aspects of our business.Risks Related to our BusinessOur acquisition, development and property improvement activities are limited by available funds.Our ability to acquire additional multi-family properties, to improve our multi-family properties and to develop our Newark Joint Venture properties, is limited by the funds available to us. At September 30, 2015, we had approximately $15.6 million of cash and cash equivalents and approximately $6.5 million and $13.3 million designated as restricted cash for multi-family property improvements and Newark Joint Venture development activities, respectively. Our multi-family acquisition and improvement activities and the Newark Joint Venture development activities are constrained by funds available to us which will limit growth in our revenues and operating results. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Newark Joint Venture".13Table of ContentsIt is unlikely that we will be required to declare any dividends in the next several years to maintain our status as a REIT.We have not declared or paid any dividends since 2010. In order to qualify as a REIT, we are required to distribute 90% of our taxable income. At December 31, 2014, we had a tax loss carry-forward of approximately $65 million. Under current tax laws, we can offset our future taxable income against our tax loss carry-forward until 2029 or until the tax loss carry-forward has been fully used, whichever occurs first. As a result, it is unlikely that we will be required to pay a dividend for the next several years in order to maintain our REIT status. The non-payment of cash dividends may negatively impact the price of our common shares.We may not be able to compete with competitors, many of which have greater financial and other resources than we possess.We compete with many third parties engaged in the ownership and operation of multi-family properties, including other REITs, specialty finance companies, public and private investors, investment and pension funds and other entities. The Newark Joint Venture competes (i) with real estate developers for tax credit allocations and financing provided by governmental and quasi-governmental authorities, and (ii) for tenants, with landlords and developers with, or interested in developing, properties in Newark, New Jersey and the surrounding area. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Larger and more established competitors enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, enhanced operating efficiencies and more extensive networks providing greater and more favorable access to capital, financing and tax credit allocations and more favorable lending and acquisition opportunities. Larger multi-family property operators have the ability and capacity to acquire a greater number of higher quality properties at more favorable locations and on more favorable terms and conditions.We may incur impairment charges in 2016.We evaluate on a quarterly basis our real estate portfolios for indicators of impairment. Impairment charges reflect management's judgment of the probability and severity of the decline in the value of real estate assets we own. These charges and provisions may be required in the future as a result of factors beyond our control, including, among other things, changes in the economic environment and market conditions affecting the value of real property assets. If we are required to take impairment charges, our results of operations will be adversely impacted.Our revenues and the value of our portfolio may be negatively affected by casualty events occurring on our properties.The joint ventures in which we are an equity participant carry all risk property insurance covering the property and any improvements to the property owned by the joint venture for the cost of replacement in the event of a casualty. Further, we carry insurance for such purpose on properties owned by us. However, the amount of insurance coverage maintained for any property may be insufficient to pay the full replacement cost following a casualty event. In addition, the rent loss coverage under a policy may not extend for the full period of time that a tenant or tenants may be entitled to a rent abatement that is a result of, or that may be required to complete restoration following, a casualty event. In addition, there are certain types of losses, such as those arising from earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and terrorist attacks, that may be uninsurable or that may not be economically feasible to insure. Changes in zoning, building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors may make it impossible for a joint venture or us, as the case may be, to use insurance proceeds to replace damaged or destroyed improvements at a property. If any of these or similar events occur, the amount of coverage may not be sufficient to replace a damaged or destroyed property. As a result, our returns and the value of our investment may be reduced.Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 or other safety regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs.The Americans with Disabilities Act generally requires that public buildings, including our properties, be made accessible to disabled persons. Non-compliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. From time-to-time claims may be asserted against us with respect to some of our properties under the Americans with Disabilities Act. If, under the Americans with Disabilities Act, we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. We do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow and results of operations.14Table of ContentsIn order for real estate properties to generate positive cash flow or to make real estate properties suitable for sale, we may need to make significant capital improvements and incur deferred maintenance costs with respect to these properties.Some of our properties, and in particular, our multi-family properties, face competition from newer, and updated properties. At September 30, 2015, the approximate weighted average age (based on the number of units) of our multi-family properties is approximately 25 years. To remain competitive and increase occupancy at these properties and/or make them attractive to potential tenants or purchasers, we may have to make significant capital improvements and/or incur deferred maintenance costs with respect to these properties. The cost of these improvements and deferred maintenance items may impair our financial condition and liquidity.Our transactions with affiliated entities involve conflicts of interest.Entities affiliated with us and with certain of our executive officers provide services to us and on our behalf. Although our policy is to obtain terms in transactions with affiliates that are at least as favorable as those that we would receive if the transactions were entered into with unaffiliated entities, these transactions raise the potential that we may not receive terms as favorable as those that we would receive if the transactions were entered into with unaffiliated entities.Liability relating to environmental matters may impact the value of properties that we acquire.We may be subject to environmental liabilities arising from the ownership of properties we acquire. Under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal of certain hazardous substances released on its property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances.If we acquire properties, the presence of hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect our ability to finance or sell the property and we may incur substantial remediation costs. The discovery of material environmental liabilities attached to such properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.The presence of hazardous substances may adversely affect our ability to sell real estate or borrow using the real estate as collateral.Senior management and other key personnel are critical to our business and our future success may depend on our ability to retain them.We depend on the services of Jeffrey A. Gould, our president and chief executive officer, and other members of senior management to carry out our business and investment strategies. Although Jeffrey A. Gould devotes substantially all of his business time to our affairs, he devotes a limited amount of his business time to entities affiliated with us. In addition to Jeffrey A. Gould, only two other executive officers, Mitchell Gould, our executive vice president, and George Zweier, a vice president and our chief financial officer, devote all or substantially all of their business time to us. The remainder of our executive management personnel share their services on a part-time basis with entities affiliated with us and located in the same executive offices pursuant to a shared services agreement. We rely on part-time executive officers to provide certain services to us, including legal and accounting services, since we do not employ full-time executive officers to handle these services. If the shared services agreement is terminated, we will have to obtain such services or hire employees to perform them. We may not be able to replace these services or hire such employees in a timely manner or on terms, including cost and level of expertise, that are as favorable as those we receive under the shared services agreement.In addition, in the future we may need to attract and retain qualified senior management and other key personnel, both on a full-time and part-time basis. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or other key personnel or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could impair our ability to carry out our business and our investment strategies.We do not carry key man life insurance on members of our senior management.Breaches of information technology systems could materially harm our business and reputation.We, our joint venture partners and the property managers managing our properties collect and retain on information technology systems certain financial, personal and other sensitive information provided by third parties, including tenants, vendors and employees. Such persons also rely on information technology systems for the collection and distribution of funds. There can be no assurance that we, our joint venture partners or property managers will be able to prevent unauthorized access to sensitive information or the unauthorized distribution of funds. Any loss of this information or unauthorized distribution of funds as a result of a breach of information technology systems may result in loss of funds to which we are entitled, legal 15Table of Contentsliability and costs (including damages and penalties), as well as damage to our reputation, that could materially and adversely affect our business and financial performance.We are subject to risks associated with real estate assets and the real estate industry, which could decrease revenues or increase costs and adversely affect the economic performance and value of our properties.Our real estate assets are subject to general economic and market risks. As such, in a general economic decline or recessionary climate, our assets may not generate sufficient cash to pay expenses, service debt or cover maintenance, and, as a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow may be adversely affected. Factors that may adversely affect the economic performance or value of our properties include, among others:•changes in the national, regional and local economic climate; •inflation; •national, regional and local unemployment rates;•local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area; •favorable interest rate environments that may result in a significant number of potential residents of our multifamily apartment communities deciding to purchase homes instead of renting;•changes in tax, real estate, environmental and zoning laws; Risks Related to our Multi-Family ActivitiesUnfavorable changes in market and economic conditions could adversely affect occupancy, rental rates, operating expenses, and the overall market value of multi-family properties we acquire.Conditions in markets in which we acquire multi-family properties may significantly affect occupancy, rental rates and the operating performance of such assets. The risks that may adversely affect conditions in those markets include the following:•industry slowdowns, plant closings and other factors that adversely affect the local economy;•an oversupply of, or a reduced demand for, multi-family units;•a decline in household formation or employment or lack of employment growth;•the inability or unwillingness of residents to pay rent increases;•rent control or rent stabilization laws, or other laws regulating housing, that could prevent us from raising rents to offset increases in operating costs; and•economic conditions that could cause an increase in our operating expenses, such as increases in property taxes, utilities, and routine maintenance.We may be unable to refinance our multi-family mortgage debt as it matures.We are subject to the risks associated with mortgage financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest and that we will be unable to refinance our mortgage debt as it matures. At September 30, 2015, the weighted average annual interest rate on our multi-family mortgage debt is 3.99% and the weighted average remaining term on this mortgage debt is 6.5 years. Approximately $142.3 million in principal amount of mortgage debt, bearing annual interest rates ranging from approximately 3.7% to 4%, matures in 2019. As we will not have sufficient liquidity to make all these principal payments when due, we will need to refinance a significant portion, if not all, of our outstanding multi-family debt as it matures. We may not be able to refinance existing debt or, in the event of increased interest rates, refinance on terms as favorable as currently in effect; either of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We could be negatively impacted by changes in our relationship with Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, changes in the condition of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac and by changes in government support for multi-family housing.Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have been a major source of financing for multi-family real estate in the United States and we have used loan programs sponsored by these agencies to finance many of our acquisitions of multi-family properties. There has been ongoing discussion by the government with regard to the long term structure and viability of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which could result in adjustments to guidelines for their loan products. Should these agencies have their 16Table of Contentsmandates changed or reduced, lose key personnel, be disbanded or reorganized by the government or otherwise discontinue providing liquidity for the multi-family sector, our ability to obtain financing through loan programs sponsored by the agencies could be negatively impacted. In addition, changes in our relationships with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and the lenders that participate in these loan programs, with respect to our existing mortgage financing could impact our ability to obtain comparable financing for new acquisitions or refinancing for our existing multi-family real estate investments. Should our access to financing provided through Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loan programs be reduced or impaired, it would significantly reduce our access to debt capital and/or increase borrowing costs and could significantly limit our ability to acquire properties on acceptable terms and reduce the values to be realized upon property sales.Most of our multi-family properties are located in a limited number of markets, which makes us susceptible to adverse economic developments in such markets.In addition to general, regional and national economic conditions, the operating performance of our multi-family residential properties is impacted by the economic conditions of the specific markets in which our properties are concentrated. Approximately 21%, 17%, 15% and 14% of our estimated 2016 revenues from multi-family properties are attributable to properties located in Texas, Georgia, Tennessee and Florida, respectively. Accordingly, adverse economic developments in such markets could adversely impact the operations of these properties and therefore our operating results and cash flow. The concentration of properties in a limited number of markets exposes us to risks of adverse economic developments which are greater than the risks of owning properties with a more geographically diverse portfolio.We are subject to certain risks associated with selling multi-family properties, which could limit our operational and financial flexibility. We may desire to dispose of multifamily properties that no longer meet our objectives, but our ability to complete such sales may be limited by adverse market conditions, including conditions over which we have limited or no control, such as the availability of mortgage debt. These conditions may impact the price or the other terms of a contemplated sale and the time needed to find a purchaser and complete the sale. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. Further, federal tax laws limit our ability to profit on the sale of properties that we have owned for less than two years, and this limitation may prevent us from selling properties when market conditions are favorable. The foregoing conditions may limit our ability to dispose of properties in order to meet our objectives, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the market value of our securities.The failure of third party property management companies to properly manage our properties may result in a decrease in occupancy rates, rental rates or both, which could adversely impact our results of operationsWe and our joint venture partners rely on third party property management companies to manage our properties. These management companies are responsible for, among other things, leasing and marketing rental units, selecting tenants (including an evaluation of the creditworthiness of tenants), collecting rent, paying operating expenses, and maintaining the property. If these property management companies do not perform their duties properly or we or our joint venture partners do not effectively supervise the activities of these companies, occupancy rates, rental rates or both may decline at such properties. One property manager and its affiliates manage nine properties, a second property manager and its affiliates manage four properties and nine other property managers manage three or fewer properties - the loss of our managers, and in particular, the property manager that manages nine properties, could result in a decrease in occupancy rates, rental rates or both. Further, some of management companies are owned by our joint venture partners or their affiliates. The termination of a management company may require the approval of the mortgagee, our joint venture partner or both. If we are unable to terminate a property manager not performing its duties, on a timely basis, our occupancy rates, rental rates or both, could be adversely impacted.Increased competition and increased affordability of residential homes could limit our ability to retain our tenants or increase or maintain rents.Our multi-family properties compete with numerous housing alternatives, including other multi-family and single-family rental homes, as well as owner occupied single and multi-family homes. Our ability to retain tenants and increase or maintain rents or occupancy levels could be adversely affected by the alternative housing in a particular area and, due to declining housing prices, mortgage interest rates and government programs to promote home ownership, the increasing affordability of owner occupied single and multi-family homes.Risks involved in conducting real estate activity through joint ventures.We have in the past and in the future intend to acquire properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when we believe that circumstances warrant the use of such structure. Joint venture investments involve risks, including the possibility that our partner might become insolvent or otherwise refuse to make capital contributions or property distributions when due; that we may be responsible to our partner for indemnifiable losses; that our partner may not perform its property oversight 17Table of Contentsresponsibilities; that our partner may have business goals which are inconsistent with ours; our partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or requests; and our partner might engage in unlawful or fraudulent conduct with respect to our jointly owned properties or other properties in which they have an ownership interest. We and our partner may each have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner's interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction.In some instances, joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflicts of interest. Further, our joint venture partners may experience financial distress, including bankruptcy, and to the extent they do not meet their obligations to us or our joint venture with them, we may be adversely affected.Five of our multi-family property joint ventures are owned with one joint venture partner or its affiliates and four of our multi-family property joint ventures are owned with a second joint venture partner or its affiliates. We may be adversely effected if we are unable to maintain a satisfactory working relationship with either of these joint venture partners or if either partner becomes financially distressed.Risks Related to the Newark Joint Venture and Other Real Estate Operations.The Newark Joint Venture likely will have an operating loss for the foreseeable future.We anticipate that the Newark Joint Venture will operate at a loss in 2016 and for several years thereafter. If the Newark Joint Venture operates at a loss, we and our partners in the venture may be required to fund the operating losses and capital requirements by making additional capital contributions. No assurance can be given that we or our venture partners will have the resources or be willing to make such contribution and the failure to make the required contribution may have an adverse impact on us.If we are unable to pay debt service as it becomes due, we may be forced to sell properties at disadvantageous terms or relinquish our rights to such properties, which would result in the loss of revenues and in a decline in the value of our real property portfolio.At September 30, 2015, approximately $9.4 million of debt service relating to the Newark Joint Venture is payable prior to the end of 2016 and $17.4 million of debt service is payable from 2017 through 2018. The cash flow from the properties securing the mortgage debt may be insufficient to meet required debt service payments. In particular, the rental revenues from the current tenants at Teachers Village are insufficient to cover all of the Newark Joint Ventures debt service obligations from 2016 through 2018. If efforts to generate additional rental revenues from the Teachers Village site are unsuccessful (due to, among other things, the failure to complete the buildings under construction or contemplated to be constructed or to fully lease at satisfactory rates the residential and commercial space at the six buildings contemplated to comprise Teachers Village), the Newark Joint Venture may be unable to meet its debt service obligation with respect to the Teachers Village properties and such properties would require additional capital from the members of the venture or may be foreclosed on by the lenders. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Disclosure of Contractual Oblidgations".The Newark Joint Venture is limited in its ability the Teachers Village facilities for purposes other than as contemplated by the applicable financing and tax credit transactions.The terms and conditions of the financings and tax credits provided to the Newark Joint Venture limit the venture's ability to use the Teachers Village facilities in a manner other than as permitted to be used by the governing transaction documents. Among other things, the New Markets Tax Credits and related contractual obligations provide that if prior to the seven year recapture period, the facilities are used in a manner prohibited by such tax credit program, the credits may be disallowed. The qualified school construction bonds in principal amount of approximately $22.7 million at September 30, 2015 requires that certain portions of the facilities be used for at least 19 years as public school facilities and the annual $1 million interest reimbursement provided by the US Treasury is subject to recapture if such facilities are not used for educational purposes for specified periods. The New Jersey Urban Transit Hub tax credits program requires that certain portions of the facilities must be used for residential purposes for at least ten years and that at least 20% of the residential units be allocated for lower/middle income housing. If as a result of market or other conditions, it is determined that the contemplated uses of the facilities are not financially viable, the Newark Joint Venture will be limited in its ability to use these facilities in an alternative manner which may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.We have limited experience in developing and operating development sites.The principal assets of our Newark Joint Venture are several development sites located in downtown Newark, NJ. Since we have limited experience in real estate development, we are subject to risks that differ from those to which we have been 18Table of Contentssubject to historically. Although the principal of the managing member of the Newark Joint Venture (who is formerly the principal of our borrowers) is knowledgeable with respect to the local real estate market, he has limited experience in development projects. There can be no assurance that the Newark Joint Venture will be successful in developing and/or managing the redevelopment of the sites.The success of our Newark Joint Venture depends, to a large extent, on the principal of the Newark Joint Venture's manager.The principal of the manager of the Newark Joint Venture was responsible for acquiring all the properties owned by the Newark Joint Venture and is responsible for, among other things, overseeing the construction and leasing activities at Teachers Village and development activities with respect to Market Street and the other properties owned by the venture. We believe that the principal's continued involvement is important to the success of the Newark Joint Venture. The diminution or loss of his services due to disability, death or for any other reasons could have a material adverse effect on the Newark Joint Venture's business, which would result in a material adverse effect on our business.The Newark Joint Venture carries key man life insurance on such principal in the amount of $40 million. There can be no assurance that the proceeds from such life insurance would be sufficient to compensate the Newark Joint Venture for the loss of his services, and these policies do not provide any benefits if he becomes disabled or is otherwise unable to render services to the Newark Joint Venture.The Newark Joint Venture is subject to risks particular to real estate development activities.The Newark Joint Venture is subject to the risks associated with development activities. These risks include:•The inability to complete the Phases II or III of the Teachers Village project because the funds available from the financing and New Markets Tax Credits transactions, due to cost overruns or under estimating the funds needed, may be insufficient for such purpose. We estimate that at least approximately $[ ]million to $[ ]million is needed to complete these phases of this project and we can provide no assurance tat such funds will be obtained. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources-Newark Joint Venture"•The failure to obtain governmental and other approvals on a timely basis;•Construction, financing and other costs of developing the properties owned by the Newark Joint Venture and in particular, Teachers Village, may exceed original estimates, possibly making such activities unprofitable;•The time required to complete the construction of Teachers Village or to lease up the completed project may be greater than originally anticipated, thereby adversely affecting the Newark Joint Venture's liquidity;•Occupancy rates and rents of a completed project may be insufficient to make such project profitable;•The inability to acquire all the properties needed to develop the project to its full potential; and•The inability to complete a development.Failure of the Newark Joint Venture to comply with the requirements of the New Markets Tax Credit program may result in significant losses and impair our financial condition.The Newark Joint Venture entered into various arrangements to obtain funding under the New Markets Tax Credit program for the Teachers Village project and in connection therewith received approximately $31 million of net tax credit proceeds. New Markets Tax Credits are subject to recapture for a period of seven years as provided in the Internal Revenue Code. The Newark Joint Venture is required to comply with various regulations and contractual provisions that apply to the these credits and has indemnified the beneficiaries thereof for any loss or recapture of the benefits of such credits until the obligation to deliver tax benefits is relieved. We estimate that such indemnity obligation would not exceed approximately $33 million (exclusive of interest and penalties) and is subject to reduction to the extent the credits are not disallowed. Non-compliance with applicable requirements could result in the tax benefits not being realized by the beneficiaries which would have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.19Table of ContentsRisks Related to our IndustryCompliance with REIT requirements may hinder our ability to maximize profits.In order to qualify as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, our sources of income, the amounts we distribute to our shareholders and the ownership of securities. We may also be required to make distributions to shareholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Accordingly, compliance with REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits.In order to qualify as a REIT, we must also ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of such issuer. In addition, no more than 5% of the value of our assets can consist of the securities of any one issuer, other than a qualified REIT security. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we must dispose of the portion of our assets in excess of such amounts within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter in order to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences. This requirement could cause us to dispose of assets for consideration of less than their true value and could lead to a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.Because Real Estate Investments Are Illiquid, We May Not Be Able to Sell Properties As Needed.Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. We may not be able to reconfigure our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. This inability to reallocate our capital promptly could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.