Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business operations face a number of risks. These risks should be read and considered with other information provided in this report. Risks Relating to Furiex’s Business We anticipate that we will incur additional losses. We might never achieve or sustain profitability. If additional capital is not available, we might have to curtail or cease operations. Our business has experienced significant net losses. We had net losses of $54.7 million, $49.0 million and $42.9 million in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. We will continue to incur additional net losses until revenues from all sources reach a level sufficient to support our on-going operations. Because we or our collaborators or licensees might not successfully develop additional products, obtain required regulatory approvals, manufacture products at an acceptable cost or with appropriate quality, or successfully market products with desired margins, our expenses might continue to exceed any revenues we receive. Our commitment of resources to the continued development of our products might require significant additional funds for development. Our operating expenses also might increase if we: • move our earlier stage potential products into later stage clinical development, as we have done with MuDelta; • encounter problems during clinical development that require a change in scope and/or timelines; • pursue clinical development of our potential products in new indications; • increase the number of patents we are prosecuting or otherwise expend additional resources on patent prosecution or defense; or • invest in or acquire additional technologies, product candidates or businesses. In the absence of substantial licensing, milestone and other revenues from third-party collaborators, royalties on sales of products under our agreements with collaborators, future revenues from our products in development or other sources of revenues, we will continue to incur operating losses and might require additional capital to fully execute our business strategy. The likelihood of reaching, and time required to reach, sustained profitability are highly uncertain. Although we expect that we will have sufficient cash to fund our operations and working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months based on current operating plans, we might need to raise additional capital in the future to: • fund our research and development programs; • acquire complementary businesses or technologies; • respond to competitive pressures; or • commercialize our product candidates. Our future capital needs depend on many factors, including: • the scope, duration and expenditures associated with our research and development programs; • continued progress in these programs; • the outcome of potential licensing transactions, if any; • competing technological developments; • the regulatory approval process for our product candidates; and • the cost of attracting and retaining employees. We might seek to raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or additional collaborations and licensing arrangements. We might not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. General market conditions might make it difficult for us to seek financing from the capital markets. We might have to relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not optimal to us, in order to raise additional funds. If adequate funds are not available, we might have to delay, reduce or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs and reduce overhead expenses, or restructure or cease operations. These actions might reduce the market price of our common stock. 13 Our near-term revenue is largely dependent on the success of Nesina and Priligy and we cannot be certain of the extent that our collaborators will be able to obtain regulatory approval for or obtain commercial success of drugs. We currently are relying on Nesina and related products, and Priligy to generate revenue. While Priligy is approved for marketing outside of the U.S., it has not been approved in the U.S. and the FDA issued a “not approvable” letter with respect to the compound in October 2005. We currently do not have plans to re-submit the NDA. While Nesina is approved for marketing in Japan and was approved for marketing in January 2013 for the U.S., Takeda, our collaborative partner, continues to seek approval in Europe. We have also invested a significant amount of time and financial resources in the development of MuDelta. Our future success might depend in part on our, or our collaborator’s, ability to successfully complete Phase III clinical trials for MuDelta, which began in June 2012. We have also invested a significant amount of time and financial resources in the development of JNJ-Q2. FDA guidance for developing drugs to treat community-acquired bacterial pneumonia includes challenging requirements for the drug developer. Our future success might depend in part on our collaborator’s ability to successfully complete the Phase III trial for this pneumonia indication using JNJ-Q2 in view of the FDA guidelines. We anticipate that our success will depend largely on the receipt of regulatory approval and successful commercialization of these drug candidates. The future success of these drug candidates will depend on several factors, including the following: • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of their safety and efficacy; • receipt of marketing approval from the FDA and any similar foreign regulatory authorities; • our or our partners ability to obtain and maintain commercial manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers or establishing commercial-scale manufacturing capabilities; • collaborating with pharmaceutical companies or contract sales organizations to further develop, market and sell any approved drug; and • acceptance of any approved drug in the medical community and by patients and third-party payors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue generating revenues through the sale of Priligy, Nesina and related products or generate any revenue from the sale of other product candidates. Our ability to continue to develop and commercialize our late stage product candidates depends on our ability to find new collaborators. Our ability to succeed in our drug development business by advancing our late stage product candidates through Phase III clinical trials will depend on our ability to successfully find collaborators able to fund and execute late-stage development and commercialization of our product candidates. We generally conduct our drug development business in two stages. During the first stage, we in-license a product candidate from a collaborator and develop that candidate through Phase II clinical trials. If the product candidate successfully completes Phase II testing, we would likely enter a second stage during which we seek a collaborator, which might or might not be the same collaborator as in the first stage, for the continued late stage development and ultimate commercialization of the product candidate. Janssen, our original collaborator for MuDelta and JNJ-Q2, has elected not to continue development of these two product candidates. If we cannot find a collaborator for final development and commercialization, we might not be able to complete the development and commercialization on our own due to the significant costs associated with these activities. As a result, we may not be able to recoup all or any part of our investment in the product candidate. Our milestone and royalty payments from collaborators and the successful development and marketing of our product candidates depends on our collaborators continuing to develop and commercialize the product candidates. If our collaborators are not successful or choose not to develop these compounds, we might not receive future payment. The drug development industry is under increasing economic pressure. The third parties with which we collaborate might not perform their obligations as expected or they might breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully or in a timely manner. Further, parties collaborating with us might not devote sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, regulatory strategy and approvals, marketing or sale of these product candidates. If the parties to our collaborative agreements do not fulfill their obligations, elect not to develop a candidate or fail to devote sufficient resources to it, our business could be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, our ability to further develop potential products could be severely limited. An example of the way we rely on our collaborators is continued cooperation from Alza and Janssen under our May 2012 agreement to transfer the existing regulatory licenses and license applications as set forth in the agreement. We have agreements under which we rely on collaborators to manufacture our product candidates and essential components for those product candidates, design and conduct clinical trials, compile and analyze the data received from these trials, obtain regulatory approvals and, if approved, market these products. As a result, we might have limited or no control over the manufacturing, development and marketing of these potential products. In addition, the performance of our collaborators might not be sufficient or appropriate for regulatory review and approval for our product candidates. Further, we often rely on one manufacturer or other collaborator for such services, the loss of which could significantly delay the development of any of our product candidates. Our milestone and royalty payments rely on the performance of our collaborators and would be impacted by any delay or termination by our collaborators. 14 Our collaborators can terminate our collaborative agreements under certain conditions. A collaborator may terminate its agreement with us or separately pursue alternative products, therapeutic approaches or technologies as a means of developing treatments for the diseases targeted by us, or our collaborative effort. Even if a collaborator continues to contribute to the arrangement, it might nevertheless decide not to actively pursue the development or commercialization of any resulting products. In these circumstances, our ability to further develop potential products could be severely limited. While we generally seek non-compete terms in our agreements with our collaborators for the products we are developing, the enforcement of a non-compete can be expensive and difficult to monitor and enforce and might be subject to being invalidated by a court or judge. Continued funding and participation by collaborators will depend on the continued timely achievement of our research and development objectives, the retention of key personnel performing work under those agreements and on each collaborator’s own financial, competitive, marketing and strategic capabilities and priorities. These considerations include: • the commitment of each collaborator’s management to the continued development of the licensed products or technology; • the relationships among the individuals responsible for the implementation and maintenance of the development efforts; and • the relative advantages of alternative products or technology being marketed or developed by each collaborator or by others, including their relative patent and proprietary technology positions, and their ability to manufacture potential products successfully. The willingness of our existing collaborators to continue development of our potential products and our ability to enter into new relationships depends upon, among other things, our patent position with respect to such products. If we are unable to successfully obtain and maintain patents, we might be unable to collect royalties on existing licensed products or enter into additional agreements. If we are unable to enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our drug candidates or are unable to establish our own sales and marketing capabilities, we might be unable to generate product revenue. We do not currently have the resources to sell, market or distribute any pharmaceutical products. In order to market any of our products that receive regulatory approval, we must make arrangements with third parties to perform these services, or build our sales, marketing, managerial and other non-technical capabilities, which would be difficult, expensive and time-consuming. If we are unable to do so, we might not be able to generate product revenue and might not become profitable. We might obtain future financing through the issuance of debt or equity or other forms of financing, which might have an adverse effect on our shareholders or otherwise adversely affect our business. If we raise funds through the issuance of debt or equity or other forms of financing, any debt securities or preferred stock issued will have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock in the event of liquidation. In such event, there is a possibility that once all senior claims are settled, there might be no assets remaining to pay out to the holders of our common stock. In addition, if we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, whether through private placements or public offerings, such an issuance would dilute the ownership of our then current shareholders. The terms of debt securities might also impose restrictions on our operations, which might include limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, to pay dividends on or repurchase our capital stock, or to make certain acquisitions or investments. For example, under our loan and security agreement with MidCap Funding III, LLC, MidCap Funding RE Holdings, LLC and Silicon Valley Bank, we are subject to various affirmative and negative covenants, including that we may not enter into a merger or consolidation or certain change of control events or incur additional indebtedness, in each case subject to certain customary exceptions. In addition, we might be subject to covenants requiring us to satisfy certain financial tests and ratios, and our ability to satisfy such covenants may be affected by events outside of our control. Our operating expenses and results and any revenue likely will fluctuate in future periods. Our revenues and expenses are unpredictable and likely will fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to, among other things, the timing and the unpredictable nature of clinical trials and related expenses, including payments owed by us and to us under collaborative agreements for reimbursement of expenses, future milestone revenues under collaborative agreements, royalties owed to us related to sales of Priligy and Nesina and related products and any royalty payments which may be owed by us under collaborative or other agreements. For example, under our agreement with Takeda for Nesina, we may be responsible for royalty payments in Japan up to 0.5%, subject to a quarterly cap, for payments made by Takeda to a licensor for patent(s), if granted, in Japan covering intellectual property related to Nesina. In addition, the recognition of clinical trial and other expenses that we otherwise would recognize over a period of time under applicable accounting principles might be accelerated or expanded in certain circumstances. In such a case, it might cause our expenses during that period to be higher than they otherwise would have been had the circumstances not occurred. For example, if we terminate a clinical trial for which we paid non-refundable upfront fees to a clinical research organization and in which we did not accrue all of the patient costs, the recognition of the expense associated with those fees that we were recognizing as we accrued patient costs would be accelerated and recognized in the period in which the termination occurred. 15 We are dependent on the performance of service providers. We rely on service providers, such as contract manufacturers, clinical research organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators, including physician sponsors, to conduct nearly all of our clinical trials, including recruiting and enrolling patients in the trials. In connection with the spin-off, we entered into a Master Development Services Agreement with PPD pursuant to which PPD provides us clinical development services at discounted rates on a preferred provider basis. If PPD or any of these other parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we might be delayed or may not obtain regulatory approval for or be able to commercialize our product candidates. If any of the third parties upon whom we rely to conduct our clinical trials do not comply with applicable laws, successfully carry out their obligations or meet expected deadlines, our clinical trials might be extended, delayed or terminated. If the quality or accuracy of the clinical data obtained by third party contractors is compromised due to their failure to adhere to applicable laws or our clinical protocols, or for other reasons, we might not obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize any of our product candidates. If our relationship with any of these organizations or individuals terminates, replacing any of these third parties could delay our clinical trials and could jeopardize our ability to obtain regulatory approvals and commercialize our product candidates on a timely basis, if at all. For example, we rely on our clinical research organizations’ computer programming and data management capabilities to run and support our clinical programs in such a manner to meet all necessary regulatory and compliance standards. Risks Relating to Our Operations We might not successfully operate the compound partnering business as an independent entity. It takes many years for a drug development business like ours to generate revenue and income. Although we have experience operating our compound partnering business within PPD’s Discovery Sciences segment since 1998, we might not be successful in operating this business as a stand-alone company. Generating revenue and income, consistently or at all, from our drug development business and compound partnering activities depends on our ability to: • develop products internally or obtain rights to them from others on favorable terms; • successfully complete non-clinical and clinical studies; • obtain clinical trial materials of sufficient quality or quantity; • obtain and maintain intellectual property rights to these products; • obtain and maintain regulatory approvals; • enter into agreements with third parties to continue the development and commercialization of drug candidates; and • enter into arrangements with third parties to manufacture products on our behalf and to provide sales and marketing functions. We must attract and retain key employees in order to succeed. To be successful, our unique business model requires that our personnel have extensive experience in designing and implementing drug development programs that will run faster than typical studies in the industry. We also require qualified personnel, experienced at building and maintaining relationships with our collaborators. We rely on the services of our senior management, particularly our President and Chief Medical Officer, June Almenoff, our Senior Vice President—Research, Gail McIntyre, and our Senior Vice President—Clinical Development and Operations, Paul Covington, as well as our Chief Financial Officer, Marshall Woodworth, our Vice President—Legal Affairs, Nadine Chien, and our Vice President—Strategic Development, Sailash Patel, the loss of any of whom could adversely impact our operations. We do not carry key man insurance on any of these individuals or any of our other officers or employees. Any inability to hire additional qualified personnel might also require an increase in the workload for both existing and new personnel. We might not be successful in attracting new scientists or management, or in retaining or motivating our existing personnel. The shortage of experienced scientists and managers capable of working within our unique business model might lead to increased recruiting, relocation and compensation costs for these professionals, which might exceed our forecasts. If we are unable to attract and retain any of these personnel, our ability to execute our business plan will be adversely affected. If our product identification efforts are not successful, we might not be able to effectively develop new products. Our product candidates are in various stages of development. Some or all of our product candidates might never be developed for any number of reasons, including failure to meet clinical trial tests and failure to receive regulatory approval. For example, we suspended our PPD-10558 program due to unfavorable efficacy data from the Phase II clinical trial. To maintain our business, we need to have a sufficient pipeline of product candidates. Our success in identifying new product candidates depends upon our ability to identify and validate new targets through in-licensing or collaborative arrangements. In order to increase the possibilities of identifying compounds with a reasonable chance for success in clinical studies, part of our business strategy is to identify a higher number of potential targets than we expect to be able to progress through clinical development. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to identify or obtain rights to new product candidates that lead to the required regulatory approvals and the successful commercialization of products, our business could be harmed. 16 We or our collaborators might not be able to attract a sufficient number of sites or enroll a sufficient number of patients in a timely manner in order to complete our clinical trials. The rate of completion of clinical trials is significantly dependent upon the rate of patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including: • changing regulatory requirements; • the size of the patient population; • perceived risks and benefits of the drug under study; • availability of competing therapies, including those in clinical development; • availability of clinical drug supply; • participation of qualified clinical trial sites; • availability and willingness of potential participants to enroll in clinical trials; • design of the protocol; • proximity of and access by patients to clinical sites; • patient referral practices of physicians; • eligibility criteria for the study in question; and • efforts of the sponsor of and clinical sites involved in the trial to facilitate timely enrollment. For example, patient enrollment for our Phase II Proof-of-Concept trial of JNJ-Q2 in hospitalized pneumonia patients was slower than expected. We might have difficulties obtaining sufficient patient enrollment or clinician support to conduct our clinical trials as planned, and we might need to expend additional funds to obtain access to resources or delay or modify our plans significantly. These considerations might result in our being unable to successfully achieve our projected development timelines, or potentially even lead us to consider the termination of on-going clinical trials or development of a product for a particular indication. Many of our drug candidates are in development and we or our collaborators might not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. The development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive governmental regulation in the United States and foreign countries. Government approvals are required to develop, market and sell the potential drug candidates we develop alone or with others under our risk-sharing arrangements. Especially for the early-stage compounds we target for in-licensing, obtaining government approval to develop, market and sell drug candidates is time-consuming and expensive. Further, clinical trial results for a particular drug candidate might not satisfy requirements to obtain government approvals. For example, in late 2005, Janssen, our collaborator at the time on dapoxetine, received a “not approvable” letter from the FDA. In addition, governmental approvals might not be received in a timely manner, if at all, and we and our collaborative partners might not be able to meet other regulatory requirements for our products. In addition, governmental approvals might not be received in a timely manner, if at all, and we and our collaborative partners might not be able to meet other regulatory requirements for our products. Finally, even if we are successful in obtaining all required approvals to market and sell a drug candidate, post-approval requirements and the failure to comply with other regulations could result in suspension or limitation of government approvals. In connection with drug development activities outside the United States, we and our collaborators will be subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing the testing, approval, manufacture, labeling, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products. These requirements vary from country to country. Even if approval has been obtained for a product in the United States, approvals in foreign countries must be obtained prior to marketing the product in those countries. The approval process in foreign countries could be more or less rigorous and the time required for approval might be longer or shorter than that required in the United States. Clinical studies conducted outside of any particular country might not be accepted by that country, and the approval of a pharmaceutical product in one country does not assure that the product will be approved in another country. 17 The failure to gain market acceptance of our product candidates among the medical community would adversely affect our future revenue. Even if approved, our product candidates might not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, third-party payors and the medical community. We might not achieve market acceptance even if clinical trials demonstrate safety and efficacy and we obtain the necessary regulatory and reimbursement approvals. The degree of market acceptance of any product candidates that we develop will depend on a number of factors, including: • establishment and demonstration of clinical efficacy and safety; • cost-effectiveness of our product candidates versus competing products; • their potential advantage over alternative treatment methods; • pricing requirements in various markets; • reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors; and • marketing and distribution support for our product candidates, including the efforts of our collaborators where they have marketing and distribution responsibilities. Physicians will not recommend our products until clinical data or other factors demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product as compared to conventional drug and other treatments. Even if we establish the clinical safety and efficacy of our product candidates, physicians might elect not to use our product for any number of other reasons, including whether the mode of administration of our products is effective for certain indications. The failure of our product candidates to achieve significant market acceptance would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We might face additional regulation in the U.S. if our drug candidate MuDelta is classified as a controlled substance by the Drug Enforcement Agency. The Drug Enforcement Agency, or DEA, regulates drugs that are controlled substances. Controlled substances are those drugs that appear on one of the five schedules promulgated and administered by the DEA under the Controlled Substances Act, or CSA. Any drug that acts on the central nervous system has the potential to become a controlled substance, and scheduling by the DEA is an independent process that might delay the commercial launch of a drug even after FDA approval of the NDA. The CSA governs, among other things, the inventory distribution, recordkeeping, handling, security and disposal of controlled substances. MuDelta is a novel, orally active, investigational agent in Phase III development, with combined mu opioid receptor agonist and delta opioid receptor antagonist activity. Because it likely acts on the central nervous system, MuDelta has the potential to be scheduled as a controlled substance by the DEA. However, our animal and clinical studies indicate MuDelta is not absorbed into the blood in an appreciable amount via an oral route of administration, thus limiting delivery to the central nervous system. If the DEA schedules MuDelta as a controlled substance, we will be subject to periodic and on-going inspections by the DEA and similar state drug enforcement authorities to assess our on-going compliance with the DEA’s regulations. Any failure to comply with these regulations could lead to a variety of sanctions, including the revocation, or a denial of renewal, of any DEA registrations, injunctions, or civil or criminal penalties. Additionally, if the DEA schedules a drug because it is addictive, doctors might be reluctant to prescribe that drug. It is possible that the DEA will schedule MuDelta as a controlled substance, and, based on the type of scheduling, doctors might not prescribe MuDelta as frequently as they would otherwise, which could negatively impact our revenues. We face significant competition. We face significant competition, including from entities that have substantially greater resources and more experience in the commercialization and marketing of pharmaceuticals than we have. Potential competitors in the United States and other countries include major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and specialized pharmaceutical companies. These entities have developed and are developing compounds that might compete with our products in development. These competitors might succeed in more rapidly developing and marketing technologies and products that are more effective than our product candidates or technologies or that would render any future commercialized products or technology obsolete or noncompetitive. Our product candidates and any future commercialized products might also face significant competition from both brand-name and generic manufacturers that could adversely affect any future sales of our products. Any product that we or our collaborators succeed in developing and for which regulatory approval is obtained must then compete for market acceptance and market share. The relative speed with which we and our collaborators can develop products, complete the clinical testing and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the products to the market compared to competitive companies will affect market success. In addition, the amount of marketing and sales resources and the effectiveness of the marketing used with respect to a product will affect its marketing success. Other factors affecting the ability of our products to compete include their efficacy and safety, the manner and frequency of their administration, and the extent of any reimbursement coverage. In addition, some CRO services providers and private equity funds are developing risk sharing models to finance the pharmaceutical industry’s pipeline. As these types of business models evolve, there will be increasing competition for compounds and funds to develop those compounds. 18 We must protect our patent and other intellectual property rights to succeed. Our success is dependent in part on our ability to develop and protect patent and other intellectual property rights and operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. Our pending patent applications might not result in the issuance of valid patents or the claim scope of our issued patents might not provide competitive advantages. Also, our patent protection might not prevent others from developing competitive products using related or other technology that does not infringe our patent rights. In addition, our patent for Priligy is for method of use and not composition of matter. Further, patent applications are confidential for a period of time after filing. We therefore might not know that a competitor has filed a patent application covering subject matter similar to subject matter in one of our patent applications or that we were the first to invent the innovation we seek to patent. This might lead to disputes including interference proceeding or litigation to determine rights to patentable subject matter. These disputes are often expensive and might result in our being unable to patent an innovation. The scope, enforceability and effective term of patents can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal and factual questions and proceedings. No consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of claims in pharmaceutical or biotechnology patents, so that even issued patents might later be modified or revoked by the relevant patent authorities or courts. These proceedings could be expensive, last several years and either prevent issuance of additional patents to us or result in a significant reduction in the scope or invalidation of our patents. Any limitation in claim scope could reduce our ability to negotiate future collaborative research and development agreements based on these patents. Moreover, the issuance of a patent in one country does not assure the issuance of a patent with similar claim scope in another country, and claim interpretation and infringement laws vary among countries, so we are unable to predict the extent of patent protection in any country. Although we might obtain patents for our intellectual property, third parties could challenge the patents before they expire. Further, the grant of a patent does not mean that the issued patent will necessarily be held valid and enforceable by a court. If a governmental agency or court determines that a patent we hold is invalid, noninfringed or unenforceable, the patent will not provide us with market exclusivity, and third parties could therefore enter the market with competing products prior to the expiration of the patent. In certain cases, we rely upon our collaborator to file, negotiate and maintain patents covering a licensed product. Our collaborators might fail to adequately obtain and maintain such patents. In addition to seeking the protection of patents and licenses, we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, suppliers and licensees. If these agreements are not honored, we might not have adequate remedies for any breach. Additionally, our trade secrets might otherwise become known or patented by our competitors. We might need to obtain patent licenses from others in order to manufacture or sell our potential products and we might not be able to obtain these licenses on terms acceptable to us or at all. Other companies, universities and research institutions might obtain patents that could limit our ability to use, import, manufacture, market or sell our products or impair our competitive position. As a result, we might need to obtain licenses from others before we could continue using, importing, manufacturing, marketing, or selling our products. We might not be able to obtain required licenses on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we do not obtain required licenses, we might encounter significant delays in product development while we redesign potentially infringing products or methods or we might not be able to market our products at all. Changes in the U.S. and international healthcare industry, including reimbursement rates, could adversely affect the commercial value of our development product candidates. The U.S. and international healthcare industry is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences that may significantly affect the purchasing practices and pricing of pharmaceuticals. The laws and regulations governing and issued by applicable regulatory agencies may change and additional government regulations might be enacted, which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. The U.S. Congress adopted healthcare reform and might adopt other legislation that could have the effect of putting downward pressure on the prices that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can charge for prescription drugs. Cost-containment measures, whether instituted by healthcare providers or imposed by government health administration regulators or new regulations, could result in greater selectivity in the purchase of drugs. As a result, third-party payors might challenge the price and cost effectiveness of our products. In addition, in many major markets outside the United States, pricing approval is required before sales may commence. As a result, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of approved healthcare products. 19 We might not be able to obtain or maintain our desired price for the products we develop. Any product we introduce might not be considered cost-effective relative to alternative therapies. As a result, adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to obtain or maintain prices sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Also, the trend towards managed healthcare in the United States and the concurrent growth of organizations such as health maintenance organizations, as well as legislative proposals to reform healthcare or reduce government insurance programs, might all result in lower prices, reduced reimbursement levels and diminished markets for our products. These factors will also affect the products that are marketed by our collaborators and licensees. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that might arise from legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market our future products and our business could suffer. Manufacturing changes might result in delays in obtaining regulatory approval or marketing for our products. If we or our partners make changes in the manufacturing process for any of our products, we or our partners might be required to demonstrate to the applicable regulatory agencies that the changes have not caused the resulting drug material to differ significantly from the drug material previously produced. Further, any significant manufacturing changes for the production of our product candidates could result in delays in development or regulatory approval or in the reduction or interruption of commercial sales of our product candidates. We or our partners contract manufacturers’ inability to maintain manufacturing operations in compliance with applicable regulations within our planned time and cost parameters could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have made manufacturing changes and could make additional manufacturing changes for the production of our products currently in clinical development. These manufacturing changes or an inability to immediately show comparability between the older material and the newer material after making manufacturing changes could result in delays in development or regulatory approvals or in reduction or interruption of commercial sales and could impair our competitive position. Our business might be harmed if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials. We depend on outside vendors for the supply of raw materials used to produce our product candidates for use in clinical trials. Once a supplier’s materials have been selected for use in the manufacturing process, the supplier in effect becomes a sole or limited source of that raw material due to regulatory compliance procedures. If the third-party suppliers were to cease production or otherwise fail to supply us with quality raw materials and we were unable to contract on acceptable terms for these services with alternative suppliers, our ability to produce our products and to conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials of product candidates would be adversely affected. This could impair our competitive position. We must comply with extensive government regulations and laws. We and our collaboration partners are subject to extensive regulation by federal government, state governments, and the foreign countries in which we conduct our business. In particular, we are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation as a developer of drug candidates. For example, the FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, research, manufacture, record-keeping, labeling, storage, approval, quality control, adverse event reporting, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. Our product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments. The regulatory review and approval process, which includes preclinical studies and clinical trials of each product candidate, is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. We must rely on our contract manufacturers and third-party suppliers for regulatory compliance and adhering to the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, requirements. If these manufacturers or suppliers fail to comply with applicable regulations, including FDA pre-or post-approval inspections and cGMP requirements, then the FDA could sanction us. These sanctions could include fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delay, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, product seizures or recalls, operational restrictions or criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our operating results. If our operations are found to violate any applicable law or other governmental regulations, we might be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages and fines. Similarly, if the hospitals, physicians or other providers or entities with which we do business are found non-compliant with applicable laws, they might be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations, and additional legal or regulatory change. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. 20 We expend a significant amount of resources on compliance efforts and such expenses are unpredictable and might adversely affect our operating results. Changing laws, regulations and standards might also create uncertainty and increase insurance costs. We are committed to compliance and maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment might result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. We might incur significant costs in order to comply with environmental regulations or to defend claims arising from accidents involving the use of hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, discharge, handling and disposal of materials and wastes used in our operations. As a result, we might be required to incur significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages and incur liabilities, which exceed our resources. In addition, we cannot predict the extent of the adverse effect on our business or the financial and other costs that might result from any new government requirements arising out of future legislative, administrative or judicial actions. We might be subject to product liability claims, and our insurance coverage and indemnification rights might not be adequate to cover these claims. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability and other types of claims in the event that the use of products during research and development efforts or after commercialization results in death, personal injury or other adverse effects. Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development of our drug candidates to determine the safety and efficacy of potential products for use by humans following approval by regulatory authorities. Despite our efforts to determine the safety of our drug candidates in pre-clinical studies and use of clinical study protocols approved by regulators, unanticipated negative side effects might become evident only when the drug candidates have been delivered to humans during clinical trials or used by patients in the marketplace. This risk exists even with respect to any products that receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. While we will procure and maintain liability insurance with coverage up to $15.0 million per occurrence and in the aggregate, and generally have indemnification rights under our collaboration agreements, our insurance might not be sufficient to satisfy any or all liabilities that may arise and our indemnification rights might not apply or be sufficient to cover such claims. Also, adequate insurance coverage might not be available in the future at acceptable cost, if at all. Our operations might be affected by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. We depend on our collaboration partners, service providers and other facilities for the continued operation of our business. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks, pandemic flu, hurricanes and ice storms, could disrupt our operations or those of our collaboration partners, which could also affect us. Even though we carry business interruption insurance policies and typically have provisions in our contracts that protect us in certain events, we might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies or for which we do not have coverage. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event affecting us, or our collaboration partners, could have a significant negative impact on our operations and financial performance. We, and the clinical research organizations who conduct our clinical trials, must protect electronic information and assets to succeed. We rely on critical and sensitive data, such as personally identifiable patient information, trade secrets, intellectual property and corporate strategic plans. Security of this type of data is exposed to increasing external threats. We, and our CROs, are also subject to various standards for the protection of personally identifiable information. Failure to implement appropriate safeguards to adequately protect against any unauthorized or unintentional access, acquisition, use, modification, loss or disclosure of this critical or sensitive data may adversely affect our operations. 21 Risks Resulting from Our Spin-Off From PPD Our historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of our future financial position, future results of operations or future cash flows and does not reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been as a stand-alone company during the periods presented. Our historical financial information included in this Form 10-K does not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been as a stand-alone publicly traded company during the periods presented prior to June 2010. In addition, it is not necessarily indicative of our future financial position, future results of operations or future cash flows. This is primarily a result of the following factors: • Prior to our separation, our business was operated by PPD as part of its broader corporate organization and we did not operate as a stand-alone company; • Most general administrative functions were performed by PPD for the combined entity, so although our historical combined financial statements reflect allocations of costs for services shared with PPD, these allocations may differ from the costs we will incur for these services as an independent company; • After the completion of our separation, the cost of capital for our business might be higher than PPD’s cost of capital prior to our separation; and • Prior to the separation, our financial statements include revenues and expenses of services that we did not continue subsequent to the separation. We have a limited history operating as an independent company upon which you can evaluate us. We have a limited operating history as a stand-alone entity. While our compound partnering business has constituted a part of the historic operations of PPD since 1998, we have only operated as a stand-alone company without the CRO Business since June 2010. Following the spin-off, as an independent company, our ability to satisfy our obligations and achieve profitability will be solely dependent upon the future performance of our compound partnering business, and we will not be able to rely upon the capital resources and cash flows of the CRO Business remaining with PPD. We might have received better terms from unaffiliated third parties than the terms we receive in our agreements with PPD. The agreements we entered into with PPD in connection with the spin-off, including the Master Development Services Agreement, the sublease, the Employee Matters Agreement and the Transition Services Agreement, were negotiated while we were still part of PPD. The terms of these agreements relate to, among other things, drug development services to be provided to us by PPD, the subleasing of our offices, employee benefit matters and the provision of transition services to us by PPD. The Master Development Services Agreement requires us to use PPD for specified drug development services for three years contingent on PPD’s expertise and capabilities to provide the needed services. While we believe the terms and conditions of these agreements with PPD are reasonable and acceptable to us, they might not reflect the same terms and conditions that we could have obtained had we sought competitive bids from and negotiated with unaffiliated parties. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Various factors could negatively affect the market price or market of our common stock, which has traded publicly since June 2010. Our stock has a limited trading history because we only became a separate public company in June 2010, and our trading volume is lower than many companies, which could make investing in our stock riskier than more established companies. In addition, market prices for securities of pharmaceutical companies have been highly volatile, and we expect such volatility to continue for the foreseeable future, so that investment in our securities involves substantial risk. Additionally, the stock market from time to time has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The following are some of the factors that might have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock: • developments or disputes as to patent or other proprietary rights; • approval or introduction of competing products and technologies; • results of clinical trials; • failures or unexpected delays in timelines for our potential products in development, including the obtaining of regulatory approvals; • delays in manufacturing or clinical trial plans; • fluctuations in our operating results; 22 • market reaction to announcements by other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies; • initiation, termination or modification of agreements with our collaborators or disputes or disagreements with collaborators; • loss of key personnel; • litigation or the threat of litigation; • public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by us; • sales of our common stock held by our directors and executive officers; and • comments and expectations of results made by securities analysts or investors. If any of these factors causes us to fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, or if adverse conditions prevail or are perceived to prevail with respect to our business, the price of our common stock would likely drop significantly. A significant drop in the price of a company’s common stock often leads to the filing of securities class action litigation against such a company. This type of litigation against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Your percentage ownership in Furiex might be diluted in the future. Your percentage ownership in Furiex might be diluted in the future because of equity awards that we expect will be granted to our directors, officers and employees, as well as any future equity financing. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware law might prevent or delay an acquisition of our Company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the raider and to encourage prospective acquirors to negotiate with our Board rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others: • no right of our shareholders to act by written consent; • procedures requiring advance notice of shareholder proposals or nominations for directors for election at shareholder meetings; • the right of our Board to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; and • no shareholder rights to call a special shareholders meeting. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. We believe these provisions protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our Board and by providing our Board with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer might be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board determines is not in the best interests of our Company and our shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 