Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, readers should carefully consider the following risk factors: Risks Related to Our Business If borrowers default on loans, we will experience a decrease in income and any recovery may be limited by the value of the underlying property Loan defaults result in a decrease in interest income and may require the establishment of or an increase in loan loss reserves. The decrease in interest income resulting from a loan default or defaults may be for a prolonged period of time as we seek to recover, primarily through legal proceedings, the outstanding principal balance, accrued interest and default interest due on a defaulted loan plus the legal costs incurred in pursuing our legal remedies. Legal proceedings, which may include foreclosure actions and bankruptcy and reorganization proceedings, are expensive and time consuming. The decrease in interest income, and the costs involved in pursuing our legal remedies will reduce the amount of cash available to meet our expenses. In addition, the decrease in interest income, the costs incurred by us in a defaulted loan situation and increases in loan loss reserves will have an adverse impact on our net income, taxable income and shareholders’ equity. The decrease in interest income and the costs involved in seeking to recover the outstanding amounts due to us could have an adverse impact on the cash distributions paid by us to our shareholders and our ability to continue to pay cash distributions in the future. Our primary source of recovery in the event of a loan default is the real property underlying a defaulted loan. Therefore, the value of our loan depends upon the value of the underlying real property. The value of the underlying property is dependent on numerous factors outside of our control, including national, regional and local business and economic conditions, government economic policies, the level of interest rates and non-performance of lease obligations by tenants occupying space at the underlying real property. The loan to value ratio is the ratio of the -10- amount of the loan, plus any indebtedness senior to our loan, to the estimated market value of the real property underlying the loan as determined by our own in-house valuation procedures. The higher the loan to value ratio, the greater the risk that the amount obtainable from sale of a property (including a foreclosure or bankruptcy sale) may be insufficient to repay the loan in full upon default. The loan to value ratio of certain of our loans exceeds 80%. In addition, we often find it necessary in a defaulted loan situation to acquire the property at a foreclosure sale or bankruptcy auction, in which event we assume the risks that result from ownership of the property. Commencing in the third quarter of fiscal 2007 (the quarter ended June 30, 2007) and continuing into the fourth quarter, we realized an increase in the number of borrowers defaulting on their monetary obligations to us. At September 30, 2007 we had seven non-earning loans having an aggregate outstanding principal balance of $63.6 million, before loan loss allowances of $5.9 million. These non-earning loans were outstanding to 7 separate borrowers, and represented 25.5% of the principal balance of our outstanding loans and 19.4% of our total assets at September 30, 2007. The non-accrual of interest income on these non-earning loans had the effect of reducing our revenues by $2.5 million in the 2007 fiscal year and will continue to reduce our revenues in 2008. We are actively pursing our legal remedies against borrowers in default. We attribute the increase in the number of defaults in the third and fourth quarters of our 2007 fiscal year to two principal factors. The first factor is the weakness in the single family home and condominium sales markets, and the difficulty potential purchasers of residential properties had in obtaining mortgage loans. As a result of such difficulty, the pace of condominium sales slowed considerably, sales of condominium units by our borrowers engaged in condominium conversions were adversely affected and such borrowers could not meet their monetary obligations to us. The second factor is the general tightening of credit standards by lending/financial institutions and a resulting decrease in mortgage originations. Accordingly, our borrowers had difficulty in refinancing, thereby affecting their ability to repay loans due to us. If uncertainty in the mortgage industry continues, we may continue to experience defaults by our borrowers. The inability of our borrowers to refinance or sell underlying real property may lead to defaults on our loans A substantial majority of our mortgage portfolio is short term and due within three years. In addition, our borrowers are required to pay all or substantially all of the principal balance of our loans at maturity, in most cases with little or no amortization of principal over the term of the loan. Accordingly, in order to satisfy this obligation, at the maturity of a loan, a borrower will be required to refinance or sell the property or otherwise raise a substantial amount of cash. The ability to refinance or sell or otherwise raise a substantial amount of cash is dependent upon certain factors which neither we nor our borrowers control, such as national, local and regional business and economic conditions, government economic policies and the level of interest rates. In recent months, difficulties in the “sub-prime” mortgage market and in the markets relating to collateralized debt obligations have resulted in a tightening of the credit markets. Institutional lenders have increased the costs of borrowing and have otherwise tightened credit standards (more conservative loan to value ratios, etc.). Accordingly, our borrowers are finding it more difficult and costly to refinance, thereby effecting their ability to repay loans due to us. If a borrower is unable to pay the balance due at maturity and we are not willing to extend or restructure the loan or make other accommodations with a borrower, we will, in most cases, foreclose on the property, which can be expensive and time consuming and could adversely affect our net income, shareholders’ equity and cash distributions to shareholders. Decrease in Loan Originations 2007 Fiscal Year compared to the 2006 Fiscal Year Although we experienced an increase in the average balance of loans outstanding in fiscal 2007 compared to fiscal 2006, there was a 61% decrease in the principal amount of loans originated by us in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 and including the loans originated by our joint venture with CIT, there was a 42% decrease in the principal amount of loans originated in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006. We attribute this decrease to a weakened environment in the real estate and credit markets, as a result of which many of our borrowers did not have a need for our short-term lending, as their activity in the real estate markets slowed or was curtailed. Although our origination staff is actively engaged in origination activities, which includes continued marketing and advertising efforts, many of our executives who would otherwise be involved in origination activities, are devoting time to activities relating to non-earning loans and the portfolio of real estate acquired (and to be acquired) in foreclosure. Unless there are positive changes in the environment for real estate transactions and in the credit markets, the level of originations may decrease in fiscal 2008 as compared to 2007, which could have an effect on our revenues and net income. -11- If a significant number of our mortgage loans are in default or we otherwise must write down our loans, a breach of our revolving credit facility could occur Our revolving credit facility with North Fork Bank, VNB New York Corp., Signature Bank and Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company includes financial covenants that require us to maintain certain financial ratios, including a debt service ratio and an equity to indebtedness ratio. If additional mortgage loans held by us go into default or if generally accepted accounting principles require us to take additional significant loan loss reserves against our loans or significant loss allowances against our real estate assets, our financial position could be materially adversely affected causing us to be in breach of the financial covenants. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007, we took an additional $9.3 million of loan loss reserves, which directly reduced our net income for fiscal 2007 and our shareholders’ equity at September 30, 2007. A breach by us of the covenants to maintain the financial ratios would place us in default under our revolving credit facility, and, if the banks called a default and required us to repay the full amount outstanding under the revolving credit facility, we might be required to rapidly dispose of assets, which could have an adverse impact on the amounts we receive on such disposition. If we are unable to dispose of assets in a timely fashion to the satisfaction of the banks, the banks could foreclose on that portion of our loan portfolio pledged to the banks as collateral, which could result in the disposition of loans at below market values. The disposition of loans at below our carrying value would adversely affect our net income, reduce our shareholders’ equity and adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions to our shareholders. Our allowance for loan losses and valuation allowances against owned real estate may not be adequate to cover actual losses A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that losses could be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We establish and maintain an allowance for loan losses to manage the risk associated with loan defaults and non-performance. We also write down the value of real estate assets owned by us or joint ventures if in our judgment the value of real estate owned has been impaired. However, unexpected factors may occur that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Unexpected losses in our loan portfolio or diminution in value of our loan collateral or real estate assets may arise from a wide variety of specific or systemic factors, many of which are beyond our ability to predict, influence or control. As of September 30, 2007 our allowance for loan losses is $8,917,000 compared to $669,000 as of September 30, 2006. The allowance for loan losses and the valuation allowance against owned real estate reflects our estimate of the probable losses in our loan portfolio and our estimate of real estate values at the relevant balance sheet date. Our allowance for loan losses and valuation allowance against owned real estate are based on an evaluation of known risks and economic factors. The determination of an appropriate level of loan loss allowances and valuation allowance is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses and future impairment of real estate is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control and these losses may exceed current estimates. Our allowance for loan losses and impairment allowances may not be adequate to cover actual losses and we may need to take additional reserves in the future. Actual losses and additional reserves in the future could materially and adversely affect our business, net income, shareholders’ equity and cash distributions to our shareholders. A portion of our loans are subordinate loans which carry a greater risk of loss than senior loans We also loan funds to our borrowers in the form of junior mortgage loans, junior participations in mortgage loans and mezzanine loans. Because of their subordinate position, junior liens carry a greater risk than senior liens, including a substantially greater risk of non-payment of interest or principal. A decline in real estate values in the geographic area in which the underlying property is located could adversely affect the value of our collateral, so that the outstanding balance of senior liens may exceed the value of the underlying property. In the event of a default on a junior lien, if permitted, we may elect to make payments to the senior mortgage holder in order to prevent foreclosure by the senior mortgage holder. However, in certain situations, we may not have the right to make payments to the senior mortgage holder, or may choose not to make such payments despite -12- having the right to do so. In such cases, the senior mortgage holder may foreclose and we will be entitled to share in the proceeds of the foreclosure sale only after amounts due to senior mortgage holders have been paid in full. This can result in the loss of all or part of our investment, adversely affecting our net income, shareholders’ equity and cash distributions to our shareholders. We may suffer a loss if a borrower defaults on a loan that is secured by undeveloped land We provide loans that are secured by undeveloped land. Loans secured by undeveloped land, aggregating $43.8 million, represented 17.5% of our loan portfolio at September 30, 2007. These loans are subject to a higher risk of default because such properties are not income producing properties. In addition, the market value of such properties may be volatile. Although we only make loans on undeveloped land if entitlements and zoning is in place for the intended use, there is always the risk that entitlements and zoning may be changed or lapse. Consequently, in the event of a default and foreclosure, we may not be able to sell such property for an amount equal to our investment. As a result, we may lose a significant portion of our investment, adversely affecting our net income, shareholders’ equity and cash distributions to our shareholders. Alternatively, in the event of a default of a loan secured by undeveloped land, we may elect to hold the property until the market becomes more favorable. In such case during the holding period, which we believe would be for a longer period of time than the holding period for income producing real property, we will not receive any income from this property and we will be required to pay the costs of carrying the property, primarily real estate taxes, which could adversely affect our net income, shareholders’ equity and cash distributions to shareholders. We may suffer a loss if a borrower defaults on a loan that is not secured directly by underlying real estate We occasionally provide loans that are secured by equity interests in the borrowing entities. These loans are subject to the risk that other lenders may be directly secured by the real estate assets of the borrower. In the event of a default and foreclosure or bankruptcy sale, those secured lenders would have priority over us with respect to the proceeds of a sale of the underlying real estate. As a result, we may lose all or part of our investment, adversely affecting our net income, shareholders’ equity and cash distributions to our shareholders. Dependence on Two Borrowers in Fiscal 2007 In fiscal 2007 we made loans totaling $64 million to borrowers controlled by one individual, accounting for approximately 34.1% of the loans originated by us and the CIT venture and loans totaling $28.9 million to borrowers controlled by another individual, accounting for approximately 17% of the loans originated by us and the CIT venture. The individual controlling the borrowers which accounted for 34.1% of the loans originated by us and the CIT venture became incapacitated and is not able to manage his business or make business decisions. Accordingly, neither he, nor any entity, controlled by him is expected to obtain additional loans from us. A significant reduction in our originations, as a result of the loss of the business of these two individuals, or either of them, without replacing them could have an adverse effect on our revenues and net income in fiscal 2008. We are subject to the risks associated with loan participations, such as lack of full control rights Some of our investments are participating interests in loans in which we share the rights, obligations and benefits of the loan with other participating lenders. We may need the consent of these parties to exercise our rights under such loans, including rights with respect to amendment of loan documentation, enforcement proceeding and the institution of, and control over, foreclosure proceedings. In addition, if our participation represents a minority interest, a majority of the participants may be able to take actions which are not consistent with our objectives. We may have less control of our investment when we invest in joint ventures We have made loans to, and acquired equity interests in, joint ventures that own income producing real property. Our co-venturers may have different interests or goals than we do or our co-venturers may not be able or willing to take an action that is desired by us. A disagreement with respect to the activities of the joint venture could result in a substantial diversion of time and effort by our management and could result in our exercise, or one of our co-venturers exercise, of the buy/sell provision typically contained in our joint venture organizational documents. In addition, there is no limitation under our charter documents as to the amount of funds that we may invest in joint ventures. Accordingly, we may invest a substantial amount of our funds in joint ventures which ultimately may not be profitable as a result of disagreements with and among our co-venturers. -13- The accounting treatment of the assets held by our CIT joint venture could make it difficult to analyze our financial statements and to compare them with our prior period financial statements We presently are a 25% joint venture partner with CIT Capital USA, Inc. in a joint venture that was established in November 2006 to originate bridge loans similar to those which we generally originate. Because our share of earnings from the joint venture will be shown on our financial statements under the equity method of accounting, it may be more difficult to analyze our earnings. In addition, it may be difficult to compare our investment in the joint venture, as reflected in our financial statements, with our financial statements from prior periods. Our inability to control our joint venture with CIT could result in diversion of time and effort by our management and the inability to achieve the goals of the joint venture Our investment in the joint venture with CIT Capital USA, Inc. may involve risks not otherwise present in investments made solely by us, including that our co-investor may have different interests or goals than we do, and that our co-investor may not be willing to take an action that is desired by us. Disagreements with our co-investor could result in the inability of the joint venture to successfully fund, finance or otherwise manage loans as intended by the joint venture agreement. In addition, under the joint venture agreement, we have agreed to present loan proposals received by us to the joint venture for its consideration on a right of first refusal basis, until the joint venture originates loans with an aggregate principal amount of $100 million (or $150 million if the joint venture obtains a line of credit of $50 million). As a result, we will be required to share in the income of all loans we originate that the joint venture accepts, until the joint venture's portfolio reaches $100 million (or $150 million if the joint venture obtains a line of credit of $50 million). The BRT member of the joint venture has also agreed to reimburse the CIT member, on a limited basis, for certain losses, if any, incurred by the joint venture on foreclosed property. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title In the course of our business, we foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to governmental entities or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination associated with the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The geographic concentration of our portfolio may make our revenues and the value of our portfolio vulnerable to adverse changes in local economic conditions A substantial amount of our outstanding loans are secured by properties located in the New York metropolitan area (including New Jersey) Tennessee and Florida, although we originate and hold for investment loans secured by real property located anywhere in the United States and Puerto Rico. A lack of geographical diversification may make our mortgage portfolio more sensitive to local or regional economic conditions, which may result in higher default rates than might be incurred if our portfolio were more geographically diverse. We face intense competition in acquiring desirable mortgage investments We encounter significant competition from other mortgage REITs, commercial banks, savings and loan associations, specialty finance companies, conduits, pension funds, public and private lending companies, investment funds, hedge funds, mortgage bankers and others. Many of our competitors are larger than us, may have greater access to capital and other resources and may have other advantages over us in providing certain services to borrowers. Competition may result in higher prices for mortgage assets, unfavorable loan to value ratios, lower yields and a narrower spread of yields over borrowing costs. In addition, an increase in funds available to lenders, or a decrease in borrowing activity, may increase competition for making loans and may result in loans available to us having a greater risk. -14- Our revenues and the value of our portfolio are affected by a number of factors that affect investments in real estate generally We are subject to the general risks of the real estate market. These include adverse changes in general and local economic conditions, demographics, retailing trends and traffic patterns, competitive overbuilding, casualty losses and other factors beyond our control. The value of the collateral underlying our loans, as well as the real estate owned by us and by joint ventures in which we are an equity participant, also may be negatively affected by factors such as the cost of complying with environmental regulations and liability under applicable environmental laws, interest rate changes and the availability of financing. Income from a commercial or multifamily residential property will also be adversely affected if a significant number of tenants are unable to pay rent, if tenants terminate or cancel leases or if available space cannot be rented on favorable terms. Operating and other expenses of properties, particularly significant expenses such as real estate taxes, maintenance costs and casualty and liability insurance costs, generally do not decrease when income decreases and even if revenues increase, operating and other expenses may increase faster than revenues. Changes in interest rates may harm our results of operations Our results of operations are likely to be harmed during any period of unexpected or rapid changes in interest rates. A substantial or sustained increase in interest rates could harm our ability to originate mortgage loans or acquire participations in mortgage loans. Interest rate fluctuations may also harm our earnings by causing an increase in mortgage prepayments or by changing the spread between the interest rates on our borrowings and the interest rates on our mortgage assets. Our revenues and the value of our portfolio may be negatively affected by casualty events occurring on properties securing our loans We require our borrowers to obtain, for our benefit, comprehensive insurance covering the property and any improvements to the property collateralizing our loan in an amount intended to be sufficient to provide for the cost of replacement in the event of casualty. In addition, joint ventures in which we are an equity participant carry comprehensive insurance covering the property and any improvements to the property owned by the joint venture for the cost of replacement in the event of a casualty. Further, we carry insurance for such purpose on properties owned by us. However, the amount of insurance coverage maintained for any property may not be sufficient to pay the full replacement cost following a casualty event. In addition, the rent loss coverage under a policy may not extend for the full period of time that a tenant may be entitled to a rent abatement that is a result of, or that may be required to complete restoration following a casualty event. In addition, there are certain types of losses, such as those arising from earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and terrorist attacks, that may be uninsurable or that may not be economically insurable. Changes in zoning, building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors may make it impossible for our borrower, a joint venture or us, as the case may be, to use insurance proceeds to replace damaged or destroyed improvements at a property. If any of these or similar events occur, the amount of coverage may not be sufficient to replace a damaged or destroyed property and/or to repay in full the amount due on all loans collateralized by such property. As a result, our returns and the value of our investment may be reduced. Senior management and other key personnel are critical to our business and our future success may depend on our ability to retain them We depend on the services of Fredric H. Gould, chairman of our board of trustees, Jeffrey A. Gould, our president and chief executive officer, and other members of senior management to carry out our business and investment strategies. In addition to Jeffrey A. Gould, only three other executive officers, Mitchell Gould, our executive vice president, Lonnie Halpern, a vice president and George Zweier our vice president and chief financial officer, and three other executive personnel devote substantially all of their business time to us. The remainder of our executive management personnel share their services on a part-time basis with entities affiliated with us and located in the same executive offices. In addition, Jeffrey A. Gould devotes a limited amount of his business time to entities affiliated with us. As we grow our business, we will need to attract and retain qualified senior management and other key personnel, both on a full-time and part-time basis. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or other key personnel or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could impair our ability to carry out our business and our investment strategies. We do not carry key man life insurance on members of our senior management. -15- Our transactions with affiliated entities involve conflicts of interest Entities affiliated with us and with certain of our executive officers provide services to us and on our behalf and we intend to continue the relationships with such entities in the future. Although our policy is to ensure that we receive terms in transactions with affiliates that are at least as favorable as those that we would receive if the transactions were entered into with unaffiliated entities, these transactions raise the potential that we may not receive terms as favorable as those that we would receive if the transactions were entered into with unaffiliated entities. We will be adversely affected by a decrease in the market value of, or cash distributions paid on, shares of Entertainment Properties Trust The closing market value of the shares of EPR owned by us at September 30, 2007 and November 30, 2007 was $31.7 million and $33.3 million, respectively, while our cost basis was $8.2 million. At September 30, 2007, our balance sheet reflects as an asset $34.9 million of available-for-sale securities, of which $31.7 million represents the market value of the shares of EPR owned by us on September 30, 2007 and $25.1 million, or 11% of our shareholders’ equity, represents the difference between our cost basis for such shares and the market value for such shares. In fiscal 2007 we sold 384,800 shares of EPR for a book gain of $19.4 million. We have no business relationship, affiliation with or influence over the business or operations of EPR. Any substantial decrease in the market value of EPR shares, whether resulting from activities of EPR, its management, market forces or otherwise, could result in a material decrease in our total assets, shareholders’ equity and on cash distributions to shareholders. Our ownership of shares of EPR resulted in the recognition by us for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007 of cash dividends of $2.2 million. If there is a decrease in the EPR dividend for any reason, it would reduce the amount of cash distributions available for our shareholders. In addition, if the stock price of EPR were to decline, our profit from the sale of these shares would decline or could be eliminated. We have established margin lines of credit collateralized primarily by the EPR shares owned by us. At September 30, 2007, approximately $17.4 million was available under these margin lines of credit, of which zero was outstanding. If we have amounts outstanding under these margin lines of credit, a significant decrease in the value of the EPR shares could result in a margin call and, if cash is not available from other sources, a sale of EPR shares may be required at a time when we would prefer not to sell EPR shares, resulting in the possibility that such shares could be sold at a loss. Risks Related to the REIT Industry Failure to qualify as a REIT would result in material adverse tax consequences and would significantly reduce cash available for distributions We operate so as to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of technical and complex legal provisions for which there are limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In addition, no assurance can be given that legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the Federal income tax consequences of such qualification. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to Federal, state and local income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates and would not be allowed a deduction in computing our taxable income for amounts distributed to shareholders. In addition, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification is lost. The additional tax would reduce significantly our net income and the cash available for distributions to shareholders. We are subject to certain distribution requirements that may result in our having to borrow funds at unfavorable rates To obtain the favorable tax treatment associated with being a REIT, we are required, among other things, to -16- distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our ordinary taxable income (subject to certain adjustments) each year. To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we are subject to Federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we are subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which certain distributions paid by us with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. As a result of differences in timing between the receipt of income and the payment of expenses, and the inclusion of such income and the deduction of such expenses in arriving at taxable income, and the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves and the timing of required debt service (including amortization) payments, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis in order to make the distributions to our shareholders necessary to retain the tax benefits associated with qualifying as a REIT, even if we believe that then prevailing market conditions are not generally favorable for such borrowings. Such borrowings could reduce our net income and the cash available for distributions to our shareholders. Compliance with REIT requirements may hinder our ability to maximize profits In order to qualify as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning among other things, our sources of income, the amounts we distribute to our shareholders and the ownership of securities. We may also be required to make distributions to shareholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Accordingly, compliance with REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must also ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of such issuer. In addition, no more than 5% of the value of our assets can consist of the securities of any one issuer, other than a qualified REIT security. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we must dispose of the portion of our assets in excess of such amounts within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter in order to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences. This requirement could cause us to dispose of assets for consideration of less than their true value and could lead to a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you of our ability to pay dividends in the future We intend to pay quarterly dividends and to make distributions to our shareholders in amounts such that all or substantially all of our taxable income in each year, subject to certain adjustments, is distributed. This, along with other factors, should enable us to qualify for the tax benefits accorded to a REIT under the Code. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level and our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected by the risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of trustees and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status and such other factors as our board of trustees may deem relevant from time to time. We cannot assure you that we will be able to pay dividends in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K, together with other statements and information publicly disseminated by us contains certain-forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We intend such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and include this statement for purposes of complying with these safe harbor provisions. Forward-looking statements, which are based on certain beliefs and assumptions and describe our future plans, strategies and expectations, are generally identifiable by use of words such as “may,” “will,” “will likely result,” “shall,” “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “project” or similar expressions or variations thereof. You should not rely on forward-looking statements since they involve known and unknown risks, -17- uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond our control and which could materially affect actual results, performance or achievements. We do not intend to update our forward looking statements. Factors which may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations include, but are not limited to: · defaults by borrowers in paying debt service on outstanding loans; · an inability to originate loans on favorable terms; · increased competition from entities engaged in mortgage lending; · general and local economic and business conditions; · general and local real estate conditions; · the impairment in the value of real property securing our loans due to general and local real estate conditions, resulting in loan loss allowances; · changes in Federal, state and local governmental laws and regulations; · an inability to retain our REIT qualification; and · the availability of and costs associated with sources of liquidity. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our expectations will be realized. -18- Executive Officers of Registrant Set forth below is a list of our executive officers whose terms will expire at our 2008 annual Board of Trustees’ meeting. The business history of officers who are also Trustees will be provided in our proxy statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than January 28, 2008. Name Office Fredric H. Gould* Chairman of the Board of Trustees Jeffrey A. Gould* President and Chief Executive Officer; Trustee Mitchell K. Gould Executive Vice President Matthew J. Gould* Senior Vice President; Trustee Simeon Brinberg** Senior Vice President; Senior Counsel; and Secretary David W. Kalish Senior Vice President, Finance Israel Rosenzweig Senior Vice President Mark H. Lundy** Senior Vice President, General Counsel; and Assistant Secretary George E. Zweier Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Lonnie Halpern Vice President * Fredric H. Gould is the father of Jeffrey A. and Matthew J. Gould. ** Simeon Brinberg is the father-in-law of Mark H. Lundy. Mitchell K. Gould (age 35), employed by us since May 1998 has been a Vice President since March 1999 and Executive Vice President since March 2007. From January 1998 until May 1998, Mr. Gould was employed by Bear Stearns Companies, Inc. where he was engaged in originating and underwriting commercial real estate loans for securitization. Simeon Brinberg (age 73) has been our Secretary since 1983, a Senior Vice President since 1988, and Senior Counsel since March 2006. Mr. Brinberg has been a Vice President of Georgetown Partners, Inc., the managing general partner of Gould Investors L.P., since October 1988. Gould Investors L.P. is primarily engaged in the ownership and operation of real estate properties held for investment. Since June 1989, Mr. Brinberg has been a Vice President of One Liberty Properties, Inc. (currently a Senior Vice President), a REIT engaged in the ownership of income producing real properties leased to tenants under long term leases. Mr. Brinberg is a member of the New York Bar and was engaged in the private practice of law for approximately 30 years prior to 1988. David W. Kalish (age 60) has been our Senior Vice President, Finance since August 1998. Mr. Kalish was our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from June 1990 until August 1998. He has been Chief Financial Officer of One Liberty Properties, Inc. and Georgetown Partners, Inc. since June 1990. For more than five years prior to June 1990, Mr. Kalish, a certified public accountant, was a partner of Buchbinder Tunick & Company LLP and its predecessors. Israel Rosenzweig (age 60) has been a Senior Vice President since April 1998. Mr. Rosenzweig has been a Vice President of Georgetown Partners, Inc. since May 1997 and since 2000 has been President of GP Partners, Inc., an affiliate of Gould Investors L.P. which is engaged in providing advisory services in the real estate and financial services industries to an investment advisor. He also has been a Senior Vice President of One Liberty Properties, Inc. since May 1997. Mark H. Lundy (age 45) has been our General Counsel and Assistant Secretary since March 2006 and a Senior Vice President since March 2005. Prior to March 2005 and from 1993 he was a Vice President. He has been the Secretary of One Liberty Properties, Inc. since June 1993 and he also serves as a Senior Vice President of -19- One Liberty Properties, Inc. Mr. Lundy has been a Vice President of Georgetown Partners, Inc. (currently Senior Vice President) since July 1990. He is a member of the bars of New York and Washington, D.C. George E. Zweier (age 43) has been employed by us since June 1998 and was elected Vice President, Chief Financial Officer in August 1998. For approximately five years prior to joining us, Mr. Zweier, a certified public accountant, was an accounting officer with the Bank of Tokyo--Mitsubishi Limited in its New York office. Lonnie Halpern (age 32) has been employed by us since August 2005 and was elected a Vice President in March 2007. For approximately four years prior to joining us, Mr. Halpern, a member of the bars of New York and Massachusetts, was an associate at Goodwin Procter LLP, New York, N.Y. from September 2001 to March 2004 and Hogan & Hartson LLP, New York, N.Y. from April 2004 to July 2005. -20- Item 