Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Because we intend to continue to emphasize our commercial real estate and multi-family loan originations, our credit risk will increase, and continued downturns in the local real estate market or economy could adversely affect our earnings. We intend to continue originating commercial real estate and multi-family loans. At September 30, 2013, $68.0 million, or 14.5%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of multi-family loans and an additional $60.5 million, or 12.9% of our total loan portfolio, consisted of commercial real estate loans. Commercial real estate and multi-family loans generally have more risk than the one- to four-family residential real estate loans that we originate. Because the repayment of commercial real estate and multi-family loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower's properties or related businesses, repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the local real estate market or economy. Commercial real estate and multi-family loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of related borrowers. A downturn in the real estate market or the local economy could adversely affect the value of properties securing the loan or the revenues from the borrower's business, thereby increasing the risk of non-performing loans. As our commercial real estate and multi-family loan portfolios increase, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans may also increase. A portion of our one-to four-family residential mortgage loans is comprised of non-owner occupied properties, which increases the credit risk on this portion of our loan portfolio. Much of the housing stock in our primary lending market area is comprised of two-, three- and four-unit properties. At September 30, 2013, of the $308.9 million of one-to four-family residential mortgage loans in our portfolio, $130.9 million, or 42.4% of this amount, were comprised of non-owner occupied properties. We believe that there is a greater credit risk inherent in two-, three- and four-unit properties and especially in investor-owner and non-owner occupied properties, than in owner-occupied one-unit properties since, similar to commercial real estate and multi-family loans, the repayment of these loans may depend, in part, on the successful management of the property and/or the borrower's ability to lease the units of the property. A downturn in the real estate market or the local economy could adversely affect the value of properties securing these loans or the revenues derived from these properties, which could affect the borrower's ability to repay the loan. 32 Table of Contents We make and hold in our portfolio construction loans, which are considered to have greater credit risk than other types of residential loans made by financial institutions. We originate construction loans for one- to four-family residential properties, multi-family properties and commercial properties, including commercial "mixed-use" buildings and homes built by developers on speculative, undeveloped property. At September 30, 2013, $17.1 million, or 3.7% of our total loan portfolio, consisted of construction loans, all of which were secured by one- to four-family residential real estate. None of our construction loans were secured by commercial real estate at September 30, 2013. Construction loans are considered more risky than other types of residential mortgage loans. The primary credit risks associated with construction lending are underwriting, project risks and market risks. Project risks include cost overruns, borrower credit risk, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, and environmental and other hazard risks. Market risks are risks associated with the sale of the completed residential units. They include affordability risk, which means the risk of affordability of financing by borrowers, product design risk, and risks posed by competing projects. While we believe we have established adequate reserves on our financial statements to cover the credit risk of our construction loan portfolio, there can be no assurance that losses will not exceed our reserves, which could adversely impact our future earnings. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Future changes in interest rates could reduce our profits. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: •the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and •the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. A significant portion of our loans are fixed-rate one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, and like many savings institutions, our focus on deposit accounts as a source of funds, which have no stated maturity date or shorter contractual maturities, results in our liabilities having a shorter duration than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets, such as loans and investments, may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities, such as deposits. In a period of declining interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest paid on our liabilities, as borrowers prepay mortgage loans, and mortgage-backed securities and callable investment securities are called or prepaid, thereby requiring us to reinvest these funds at lower interest rates. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk." 33 Table of Contents Changes in interest rates also create reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities in a declining interest rate environment. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. At September 30, 2013, $164.3 million, or 53.2% of our $308.9 million one- to four-family residential mortgage loans at such date, had adjustable rates of interest. If interest rates increase, the rates on these loans will, in turn, increase, thereby increasing the risk that borrowers will not be able to repay these loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of debt securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At September 30, 2013, our internal "rate shock" analysis indicated that our economic value of equity (the discounted present value of expected cash flows from interest-earning assets, interest-bearing liabilities and off-balance sheet contracts) would decrease by $14.7 million, or 13.2%, if there was an instantaneous 200 basis point increase in market interest rates. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk." Concentration of loans in our primary market area, which has recently experienced an economic downturn, may increase risk. Our success depends primarily on general economic conditions in the Boston metropolitan area, as nearly all of our loans are to customers in this market. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in this market have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans as well as our ability to originate new loans. As such, a continuation of the weakness in real estate values in this market would also lower the value of the collateral securing loans on properties in our market. In addition, a continued weakening in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control could negatively affect our financial results. Risks Related to Recent Economic Conditions and Governmental Response Efforts. Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. The United States and Massachusetts economies are experiencing reduced business activity and consumer spending as a result of, among other factors, disruptions in the capital and credit markets. Declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business: •a decrease in the demand for loans or other products and services offered by us; •a decrease in the value of our loans or other assets secured by residential or commercial real estate; •a decrease in deposit balances due to overall reductions in the accounts of customers; •an impairment of our investment securities; and/or •an increase in the number of borrowers who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of non-performing assets, net charge-offs and provision for credit losses, which would reduce our earnings. 34 Table of Contents Government responses to economic conditions may adversely affect our operations, financial condition and earnings. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has changed the bank regulatory framework, created an independent consumer protection bureau that has assumed the consumer protection responsibilities of the various federal banking agencies, and established more stringent capital standards for banks and bank holding companies. Bank regulatory agencies also have been responding aggressively to concerns and adverse trends identified in examinations. Ongoing uncertainty and adverse developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the effect of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulatory actions, may adversely affect the Company's operations by restricting its business activities, including the ability to originate or sell loans, modify loan terms, or foreclose on property securing loans. These risks could affect the performance and value of the Bank's loan and investment securities portfolios, which also would negatively affect financial performance. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations are likely to have a significant effect on the financial services industry, which are likely to increase operating costs and reduce profitability. Regulatory or legislative changes could make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive, and could cause changes to or limits on some products and services, or the way business is operated. If the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System increases the federal funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering the Bank's operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on the Bank's borrowers, especially business borrowers, and the values of underlying collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect the Bank's financial performance. Loss of key personnel could adversely impact results. Our success has been and will continue to be greatly influenced by our ability to retain the services of our existing senior management. We have benefited from consistency within our senior management team, with our top four executives averaging over 30 years of service with the Bank. The Company has entered into employment contracts with each of these top management officials. Nevertheless, the unexpected loss of the services of any of the key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. Future legislative or regulatory actions responding to perceived financial and market problems could impair our ability to collect our loans and foreclose on collateral. There have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount distressed borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit an institution's ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. Were proposals such as these, or other proposals limiting our rights as a creditor, to be implemented, we could experience increased credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. In addition, there have been legislative proposals to create a federal consumer protection agency that may, among other powers, have the ability to limit our rights as a creditor. If our investment in the stock of the FHLB of Boston is classified as other-than-temporarily impaired or as permanently impaired, our earnings and stockholders' equity could decrease. We own stock of the FHLB of Boston. We hold this stock to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLB of Boston's advance program. The aggregate cost of our FHLB of Boston stock as of September 30, 2013 was 35 Table of Contents $3.8 million. FHLB stock is not a marketable security and can only be redeemed by the FHLB. However, in recent years, the FHLB of Boston has not repurchased excess stock outstanding. In addition, FHLBs may be subject to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could materially lower their regulatory capital. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of FHLB, including the FHLB of Boston, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, we believe that there is a risk that our investment in FHLB of Boston stock could be deemed impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause our earnings and stockholders' equity to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment charge. Our earnings have been negatively affected by the low level of dividends paid by the FHLB of Boston on its stock during 2013. We received $16,000 in total dividends from the FHLB of Boston during fiscal 2013. We received $19,000 in total dividends during fiscal 2012. Accordingly, the reduction of the FHLB of Boston dividend payments has reduced our earnings. In addition, the FHLB of Boston is an important source of liquidity for us, and any restrictions on their operations may hinder our ability to use it as a liquidity source. Our branch network expansion strategy may negatively affect our financial performance. We expanded our branch network by establishing a new branch office in West Newton, Massachusetts, which opened in the second calendar quarter of 2011 and expect to establish a new branch in Westwood, Massachusetts during our second fiscal 2014 quarter. This strategy may not generate earnings, or may not generate earnings within a reasonable period of time. Numerous factors contribute to the performance of a new branch, such as a suitable location, qualified personnel, and an effective marketing strategy. Additionally, it takes time for a new branch to originate sufficient loans and generate sufficient deposits to produce enough income to offset expenses, some of which, like salaries and occupancy expense, are relatively fixed costs. Any additional newly established branches could negatively impact earnings. Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, which could affect our ability to grow and remain profitable on a long-term basis. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. If we must raise interest rates paid on deposits or lower interest rates charged on our loans, our net interest margin and profitability could be adversely affected. For additional information see "Business—Competition." ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 