Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks. In addition to the various risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report, the following risk factors should be considered. Risk Factors Relating to Our Industry and Our Business A downturn in the global economy could adversely affect demand for automobiles that are manufactured with our products and therefore, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The level of demand for our products depends primarily upon the level of consumer demand for new vehicles that are manufactured with our products. The global economic recession that began in 2008 and continued through 2009 had a significant adverse effect on our business, customers, and suppliers, and contributed to delayed and reduced purchases of automobiles, including those manufactured with our products. If the global economy were to take another significant downturn, depending upon its length, duration, and severity, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow would again be materially adversely affected. Demand for and pricing of our products is also subject to economic conditions and other factors (e.g., energy costs, fuel costs, climate change concerns, vehicle age, consumer spending and preferences, materials used in production, changing technology, etc.) present in the various domestic and international markets in which our products are sold. Our substantial international operations make us vulnerable to risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. Our international operations include manufacturing facilities in Europe, China, and Brazil. For the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 54% of our revenues were derived from operations outside the United States. Our International operations are subject to various risks that could have a material adverse effect on those operations and our business as a whole, including, but not limited to, exposure to the following in certain locations: • local economic and political conditions; • local civil and social unrest, including any resultant acts of war, terrorism or similar events; • local public health issues; • local tax requirements and obligations; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • high inflationary conditions; • the risk of government-sponsored competition; • legal and regulatory concerns, including difficulty enforcing agreements and collecting receivables; • controls on the repatriation of cash, including the imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; • export and import restrictions; • the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; • labor disruptions and operational shutdowns; • natural and man-made disasters; and • local environmental regulations. Additionally, the economic instability in Brazil and countries in which we operate in Europe could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as adversely affect our access to, and cost of, capital. 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may be unable to realize revenues represented by our awarded business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The realization of future revenues from awarded business is inherently subject to a number of important risks and uncertainties, including the number of vehicles that our customers will actually produce, the timing of that production, and the mix of options that our customers may choose. In addition to not having a commitment from our customers regarding the minimum number of products they must purchase from us if we obtain awarded business, the terms and conditions of the agreements with our customers typically provide that they have the contractual right to unilaterally terminate our contracts with them without notice or with only limited notice. If such contracts are terminated by our customers, our ability to obtain compensation from our customers for such termination is generally limited to the direct out-of-pocket costs that we incurred for raw materials and work-in-progress, and in certain instances, un-depreciated capital expenditures. We base a substantial part of our planning on the anticipated lifetime revenues of particular products. We calculate the lifetime revenues of a product by multiplying our expected price for a product by the forecasted production volume for that product during the length of time we expect the related vehicle to be in production. We use IHS, a third-party forecasting service, to provide long-term forecasts, which allow us to determine how long a vehicle is expected to be in production. If we over-estimate the production units or if a customer reduces its level of anticipated purchases of a particular platform as a result of reduced demand, our actual revenues for that platform may be substantially less than the lifetime revenues we had anticipated for that platform. Typically, it takes two to three years from the time a manufacturer awards a program until the program is launched and production begins. In many cases, we must commit substantial resources in preparation for production under awarded customer business well in advance of the customer’s production start date. We cannot provide assurance that our results of operations will not be materially adversely affected in the future if we are unable to recover these types of pre-production costs related to our customers’ cancellation of awarded business. We are dependent upon large customers for current and future revenues. The loss of any of these customers, or the loss of market share by these customers, could have a material adverse effect on us. Our customers are major vehicle manufacturers. During 2013, our largest volume customers, Ford, Volkswagen, Chrysler, Fiat, and Volvo, accounted for 22%, 19%, 10%, 9%, and 9% of our revenues, respectively. The loss of all or a substantial portion of our sales to any of our large-volume customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows by reducing cash flows and limiting our ability to spread our fixed costs over a larger revenue base. A variety of reasons could lead to a reduction of sales to our customers, including, but not limited to: • loss of awarded business; • reduced or delayed customer requirements; • OEMs’ choosing to insource business that has been traditionally outsourced to us; • strikes or other work stoppages affecting customer production; or • reduced demand for our customers’ products. The automobile industry is highly cyclical and a downturn will adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our business is directly related to the volume of automotive production. Automotive production and sales are highly cyclical and depend on general economic conditions and other factors, including interest rates, consumer confidence, consumer preferences, patterns of consumer spending, fuel costs, and the automobile replacement cycle. Automotive production and sales may fluctuate significantly from year-to-year and such fluctuations may give rise to changes in demand for our products. Because we have significant fixed production costs, declines in our customers’ production levels can have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS The highly cyclical nature of the automotive industry presents a risk that is outside our control and that cannot be accurately predicted. Moreover, a number of factors that we cannot reasonably predict could affect cyclicality in the automotive industry, and have affected cyclicality in the past. Decreases in demand for automobiles generally, or decreases in demand for our products in particular, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We have invested substantial resources in markets in which we expect growth, and we may be unable to alter our strategies timely, should such growth expectations not be realized. Our future growth is dependent on our making effective investments at the appropriate time to support product development and manufacturing capacity in areas in which we can support our customer base. We have identified China and Brazil as having markets that are likely to experience substantial growth and accordingly, we have made substantial investments in these markets. Maintaining strong positions in the Chinese and Brazilian markets are key components of our global growth strategy and we expect to continue to make substantial investments, both directly and through participation in various partnerships and joint ventures, to support anticipated growth in these regions. If we are unable to deepen existing customer relationships and develop additional relationships in these regions, we may not only fail to realize expected rates of return on our existing investments, but we may incur losses on such investments and may be unable to redeploy the invested capital timely to take advantage of other markets, which could potentially result in the loss of market share to our competitors. Increased competition in these markets could also result in our inability to gain or hold market share. The automotive markets in China and Brazil are highly competitive, with competition from many of the largest global manufacturers and numerous smaller domestic manufacturers. As the size of the Chinese and Brazilian markets continue to increase, we anticipate that additional competitors, both international and domestic, will seek to enter these markets and that existing market participants will act aggressively to increase their market share. Increased competition may also result in price reductions and reduced margins. Our results could also suffer if automobile production in these regions does not grow as quickly as we anticipate. Our operations in China are conducted through joint ventures, which have unique risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business and customer relationships. We have four joint ventures in China. In our joint ventures, we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities, or resources as we do and may compete with us outside the joint venture. Joint ventures are intended to be operated for the equal benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. Operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. In joint ventures, we are required to pay more attention to our relationship with our co-owners as well as with the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes or relationships deteriorate, our success in the joint venture could be materially adversely affected. The benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. At two of the joint ventures, our joint venture partner is also affiliated with the largest customer of the joint venture. As such, these partners may negotiate on behalf of customers of the joint venture for sales terms that may not be in the best interest of the joint venture. Additional risks associated with joint ventures include one or more partners failing to satisfy contractual obligations, conflicts arising between us and any of our partners that could have a material adverse effect on customer relationships and business, and a change in ownership of any of our partners. Additionally, our ability to sell our interest in a joint venture may be subject to contractual and other limitations. As of December 31, 2013, we had an investment in our non-consolidated joint venture located in Ningbo, China of $8.6 million in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. This balance will fluctuate depending on our proportionate share of earnings or losses in the joint venture. GAAP requires that this investment be evaluated for impairment if certain unfavorable conditions are present. Significant declines in Ningbo's profitability or 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS business outlook for an extended period may impact the fair value of our investment, which could result in an impairment of this investment and a reduction in our net income. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations could cause a decline in our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We generate a significant portion of our revenues and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Appreciation of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies will generally have an adverse effect on our reported sales and profits, while depreciation of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies will generally have a positive effect on reported revenues and profits. We estimate that a hypothetical change of 100 basis points in the Euro to the U.S. dollar exchange rate would have impacted our stockholders’ equity as of December 31, 2013 by approximately $2.7 million. We may use a combination of natural hedging techniques and financial derivatives to protect against certain foreign currency exchange rate risks. Such hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial effect resulting from foreign currency variations. The gains or losses associated with hedging activities may adversely affect our results of operations. Deterioration in the United States and world economies could adversely affect our customers and suppliers ability to access the capital markets, which may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The capital and credit markets provide companies with liquidity to help operate and grow their businesses, beyond that which is provided by operating cash flows. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our customers by making it increasingly difficult for them to obtain financing for their businesses and for their customers to obtain financing for automobile purchases. Our OEM customers typically require significant financing for their respective businesses. In addition, our OEM customers typically have related finance companies that provide financing to their dealers and customers. These finance companies have historically been active participants in the securitization markets, which have experienced severe disruptions during the global economic crisis. Our suppliers, as well as the other suppliers to our customers, may face similar difficulties in obtaining financing for their businesses. If capital is not available to our customers or suppliers, or if the cost of capital is prohibitively high, their businesses would be adversely affected, which could result in their restructuring or even reorganization or liquidation under applicable bankruptcy laws. Any such adverse effect on our customers or suppliers could materially and adversely affect our Company, either through loss of revenues from any of our customers so affected, or due to our inability to meet our commitments without excess expense, as a result of disruptions in supply caused by the suppliers so affected. Financial difficulties experienced by any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on us if such customer were unable to pay for the products we provide or if we experienced a loss of, or material reduction in, business from such customer. As a result of such difficulties, we could experience lost revenues, significant write-offs of accounts receivable, significant impairment charges, or additional restructurings beyond the steps we have taken to date. Any acquisitions or divestitures we make could disrupt our business and materially harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may, from time to time, consider certain acquisitions or divestitures. Acquisitions and divestitures involve numerous risks, including identifying attractive target acquisitions, undisclosed risks affecting the target, difficulties integrating acquired businesses, the assumption of unknown liabilities, potential adverse effects on existing business relationships with current customers and suppliers, the diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns, and decreased geographic diversification. For example, the divestiture of Seojin during 2012 has resulted in increased revenue concentration in North America and Europe. We cannot provide assurance that any acquisitions or divestitures will perform as planned or prove to be beneficial to our operations and cash flow, or that we will be able to successfully integrate any acquisitions that we undertake. Any such failure could seriously harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS We sponsor a defined benefit pension plan that is underfunded and requires annual cash payments. If the performance of the assets in our pension plan does not meet our expectations, or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, our required contributions may be higher than we expect. We sponsor a defined benefit pension plan that is underfunded. Although the Predecessor Company ceased benefit accruals under the plan, the plan will require annual cash payments in order to meet our funding obligations, which adversely affects our cash flow. Additionally, our earnings may be affected by the amount of income or expense recorded for our pension plan. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP” or “GAAP”) require that income or expense of a pension plan be calculated at the annual measurement date using actuarial assumptions, the most significant of which relate to the capital markets, interest rates, and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can change these assumptions. These assumptions, along with the actual value of assets at the measurement date, will impact the calculation of pension expense for the year. Although GAAP expense and pension contributions are not directly related, the key economic indicators that affect GAAP expense also affect the amount of cash that we would contribute to our pension plan. The investment portfolio of the pension plan has experienced volatility. Because the values of these pension plan assets have fluctuated, and will fluctuate in response to changing market conditions, the amount of gains or losses that will be recognized in subsequent periods, the impact on the funded status of the pension plan, and the future minimum required contributions, if any, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The decreasing number of automotive parts suppliers and pricing pressures from our automotive customers could make it more difficult for us to compete in the highly competitive automotive industry. The automotive parts industry is highly competitive and bankruptcies and consolidation among automotive parts suppliers are reducing the number of competitors and resulting in larger competitors who benefit from purchasing and distribution economies of scale. Our inability to compete with these larger suppliers in the future could result in a reduction of, or inability to increase, revenues, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Although the overall number of competitors is decreasing due to ongoing industry consolidation, we face significant competition within each of our major product areas. The principal competitive factors include quality, global presence, service, product performance, design and engineering capabilities, new product innovation, and timely delivery. We also face significant competitive pricing pressures from our automotive customers. Because of their purchasing size, our automotive customers can influence market participants to compete on price terms. If we are not able to offset pricing reductions resulting from these pressures by improving operating efficiencies and reducing expenditures, those pricing reductions may have an adverse effect on our business. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to continue to compete in the highly competitive automotive industry or that increased competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business. The volatility of steel prices may adversely affect our results of operations. We utilize steel and various purchased steel products in virtually all of our products. We refer to the “net steel impact” as the combination of the change in steel prices that are reflected in the price of our products, the change in the cost to procure steel from mills, and the change in our recovery of scrap steel (which we refer to as “offal”). Our strategy is to be economically neutral to steel pricing by having these factors offset each other. While we strive to achieve a neutral net steel impact, we are not always successful in achieving that goal, in large part due to timing differences. The timing of a change in the price for steel may occur in separate periods and if a change occurs, that change may have a disproportionate effect on our liquidity because of the time difference between our payment for steel and our collection of cash from customers. We tend to pay for replacement materials, which are more expensive when steel prices are rising, over a much shorter period. As a result, rising steel prices may cause us to draw greater than anticipated amounts from our credit lines to cover the cash flow cycle from our steel purchases to cash collection for related accounts receivable. This cash requirement for working capital is higher in periods when we are increasing our inventory quantities. 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS A by-product of our production process is the generation of offal. We typically sell offal in secondary markets, which are similar to the steel markets. We generally share our recoveries from sales of offal with our customers either through scrap sharing agreements, in cases in which we are participating in resale programs, or through product pricing, in cases in which we purchase steel directly from steel mills. In either situation, we may be affected by the fluctuation in scrap steel prices, either positively or negatively, in relation to our various customer agreements. As offal prices generally increase and decrease as steel prices increase and decrease, our sale of offal may mitigate the impact of the volatility of steel price increases, as well as limit the benefits reaped from steel price declines. Any volatility in offal and steel prices could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We have a material amount of goodwill, which, if it becomes impaired, would result in a reduction in our net income and equity. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired. GAAP requires that goodwill be periodically evaluated for impairment based upon the fair value of the reporting unit. As of December 31, 2013, we had $67 million of goodwill that could be subject to impairment. Declines in our profitability or the value of comparable companies may impact the fair value of our reporting units, which could result in a write-down of goodwill and a reduction of net income. Disruptions in the automotive supply chain could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Automotive industry conditions could adversely affect the original equipment supply base. The automotive supply chain is subject to disruptions because we, along with our customers and suppliers, attempt to maintain low inventory levels. Disruptions could result from a multitude of potential problems, such as the closure of one of our or our suppliers’ plants or critical manufacturing lines due to strikes, mechanical breakdowns, electrical outages, fires, explosions, or political upheaval. Disruptions could also result from logistical complications due to weather, earthquakes, or other natural or nuclear disasters, mechanical failures, technology disruptions, or delayed customs processing. If we are the cause for a customer being forced to halt production, the customer may seek to recoup all of its losses and expenses from us. Any disruptions affecting us or caused by us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The inability for us, our customers, or our suppliers to obtain and maintain sufficient credit insurance or capital financing, including working capital lines, may adversely affect the liquidity and financial condition of us, our customers, and our suppliers. Our working capital requirements can vary significantly, depending, in part, on the level, variability and timing of our customers’ vehicle production and the payment terms we have with our customers and suppliers. Our liquidity could also be adversely affected if our suppliers were to suspend normal trade credit terms and require payment in advance or payment on delivery. If our available cash flows from operations are not sufficient to fund our ongoing cash needs, we would be required to look to our cash balances and borrowing availability under our credit facilities to satisfy those needs, as well as look to potential sources of additional capital, which may not be available on satisfactory terms or in adequate amounts, if at all. There can be no assurance that we, our customers, or our suppliers will continue to have the ability to maintain sufficient capital financing. This may increase the risk of not being able to produce our products or having to pay higher prices for our inputs that may not be recovered in our selling prices. Our suppliers often seek to obtain credit insurance based on our consolidated financial condition and strength, which may be less robust. If we were to experience liquidity issues, our suppliers may not be able to obtain credit insurance and, in turn, would likely not be able to offer us payment terms that we have historically received, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may incur material costs related to plant closings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. If we must close manufacturing locations because of lost business or consolidation of manufacturing facilities, the employee termination costs, asset retirements, and other exit costs associated with the closure of these facilities may be significant. In certain circumstances, we may close a manufacturing facility that is operated under a lease agreement and we may continue to incur material costs in accordance with the lease agreement. We attempt to align production capacity with demand; however, we cannot provide assurance that plants will not have to be closed. We are subject to environmental risks and requirements and we may incur significant costs, liabilities, and obligations associated with those risks and requirements. We are subject to a variety of environmental and pollution control laws, regulations, and permits that govern, among other things, soil, surface water, and groundwater contamination; the generation, storage, handling, use, disposal, and transportation of hazardous materials; the emission and discharge of materials, including GHGs, into the environment; and health and safety. If we fail to comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators or become subject to litigation. Environmental and pollution control laws, regulations, and permits, and the enforcement thereof, change frequently, have tended to become more stringent over time, and may necessitate substantial capital expenditures or operating costs. Under certain environmental requirements, we could be responsible for costs relating to any contamination at our, or the Predecessor Company’s, currently or formerly owned or operated properties or third-party waste-disposal sites, even if we were not at fault. Soil and groundwater contamination is being addressed at certain of these locations. In addition to potentially significant investigation and cleanup costs, contamination can give rise to third-party claims for fines or penalties, natural resource damages, personal injury, or property damage. We cannot provide assurance that our costs, liabilities, and obligations relating to environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Risk Factors Relating to Our Indebtedness We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial health and our ability to fund our operations, obtain financing in the future, and react to changes in our business. Our substantial debt could also adversely affect the price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2013, our total debt, including capital lease obligations, was $503.8 million. That indebtedness could: • adversely affect our stock price; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our financing arrangements; • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and general industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of our borrowings have, and will continue to have, variable interest rates; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; • place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt; • limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing due to financial and restrictive covenants included in our debt agreements; and • increase our cost of borrowing. Our primary debt instrument is the Term Loan Credit Facility which bears interest at (i) the Alternate Base Rate plus a margin of 2.75% or (ii) the Adjusted LIBO Rate (calculated by multiplying the applicable LIBOR 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS rate by a statutory reserve rate, with a floor of 1.00%) plus a margin of 3.75%. As of December 31, 2013, the balance on the term loan was $416 million (net of a $1.9 million discount). If the LIBOR rates increase in excess of 1%, we will incur higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flow and operating results. While we periodically enter into agreements designed to limit our exposure to higher interest rates, any such agreements do not offer complete protection from this risk. The borrowings available under our revolving credit facility are subject to the calculation of a borrowing base, which is based upon the value of certain of our assets, including accounts receivable, inventory, and real property, plant, and equipment. The administrative agent for this facility requires a third party to perform an appraisal of the assets included in the calculation of the borrowing base either on an annual basis or, if our availability under the facility is less than $22.5 million during any twelve month period, as frequently as on a semi-annual basis. In addition, if certain material defaults under the facility occur and continue to occur, the administrative agent has the right to perform an appraisal as often as it deems necessary, within its sole discretion. We may not be able to refinance our debt on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to refinance, extend the maturity of, or otherwise amend the terms of our existing indebtedness, or that any refinancing, extension, or amendment will be on commercially reasonable terms. The indebtedness issued in any refinancing of our existing indebtedness could have a significantly higher rate of interest and greater costs than our existing indebtedness. There can be no assurance that the financial terms or covenants of any new credit facility or other indebtedness issued to refinance our existing indebtedness will be the same or as favorable as those under our existing indebtedness. Our ability to complete a refinancing of our existing indebtedness prior to their respective maturities is subject to a number of conditions beyond our control. For example, if a disruption in the financial markets were to occur at the time that we intended to refinance this indebtedness, we might be restricted in our ability to access the financial markets. Also, if we were unable to make payments or refinance our debt or obtain new financing under these circumstances, we would have to consider other options, such as: • sales of assets; • sales of equity; or • negotiations with lenders and their respective agents to restructure the applicable debt. Our debt instruments may restrict, and market or business conditions may limit, our ability to employ some of our options. In addition, under our credit agreements, a change in control may lead the lenders to exercise remedies such as acceleration of the loan, termination of their obligations to fund additional advances and collection against the collateral securing such loan. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under such indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations, certain of which have short-term maturities, depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions, as well as financial, business, and other factors beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay or refinance our indebtedness. Our debt instruments restrict our current and future operations. The financing agreements governing our indebtedness impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional debt, incur liens, or issue certain equity; • declare or make distributions to our stockholders, repurchase equity, or prepay certain debt; • make loans or certain investments; 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS • make certain acquisitions of equity or assets; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • enter into mergers, acquisitions, or other business combinations; • consolidate, transfer, sell, or otherwise dispose of certain assets; • use the proceeds from sales of assets and stock; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • enter into restrictive agreements; • make capital expenditures; • change our fiscal year; • amend or modify organizational documents; and • engage in businesses other than the businesses we currently conduct. In addition to the restrictions and covenants listed above, certain of our financing documents require us, under certain circumstances, to comply with specified financial maintenance covenants. Any of these restrictions or covenants could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet certain capital needs and could otherwise restrict our corporate activities. Substantially all of our subsidiaries’ assets are pledged as collateral under our secured financing arrangements. As of December 31, 2013, we had $492.6 million (net of $1.9 million original issue discount associated with the Term Loan Credit Facility) of secured debt, excluding capital leases. Substantially all of our subsidiaries’ assets are pledged as collateral for our borrowings under our secured financing arrangements. Most of our domestic subsidiaries are either primary obligors or guarantors under a secured financing arrangement. Substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries’ assets are pledged as collateral for these obligations. If we are unable to repay all secured borrowings when due, whether at maturity or if declared due and payable following a default, the agent or the lenders, as applicable, would have the right to proceed against the collateral pledged to secure the indebtedness and may sell the assets pledged as collateral in order to repay those borrowings, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Risk Factors Relating to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile. The price at which our common stock trades may be volatile due to a number of factors, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition or annual or quarterly results of operations; • changes in investors’ or financial analysts’ perception of our business risks or condition of our business; • changes in, or our failure to meet, earnings estimates or other performance expectations of investors or financial analysts; • unfavorable commentary or downgrades of our stock by equity research analysts; • our success or failure in implementing our growth plans; • changes in the market valuations of companies viewed as similar to us; • changes or proposed changes in governmental regulations affecting our business; • changes in key personnel; • volume of our common stock trading in the market; 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS • failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock; • future sales of our common stock; and • the granting or exercise of employee stock options or other equity awards; Broad market fluctuations may result in a material decline in the market price of our common stock and you may not be able to sell your shares at prices you deem acceptable. In the past, following periods of volatility in the equity markets, securities class action lawsuits have been instituted against public companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial cost and the diversion of management attention. Shares eligible for future sale may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, even if our business is doing well. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could adversely affect the price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 350,000,000 shares of common stock and as of February 28, 2014 we had 20,491,386 shares of common stock outstanding. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 