D. Risk Factors — Risks Relating to Our Business — Our media investment management business may not produce the expected returns and may result in significant losses.” As we continue to expand our media investment management business, we expect an increase in our cash needs. However, we expect to generate revenues as we sell the advertising time and other advertising rights secured under the exclusive agency arrangements and expect these revenues to largely offset the cost of revenues incurred under these exclusive agency arrangements. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs through 2013. We have fully repaid the promissory note in the principal amount of US$19.6 million due on January 20, 2011, with an annual interest rate of 4.75%. This promissory note was issued to Mr. He Dang in connection with the investment by Aegis Media. The following table sets forth a summary of our cash flows for the periods indicated: For the Year Ended December 31. 2010 2011 2012 (US$ in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities 23,441 24,138 293 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 2,667 (5,464 ) (5,469 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 40,053 (7,549 ) (18,697 ) Effect of changes in exchange rate 2,422 4,961 1,056 Net increase/decrease in cash and cash equivalents 68,583 16,086 (22,817 ) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 54,737 123,320 139,406 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 123,320 139,406 116,589 Operating Activities Our net cash provided by operating activities was US$24.1 million in 2011 compared to US$23.4 million in 2010, primarily as a result of an increase in net income. Increase in accounts receivable in 2011 was partially offset by increase in accounts payable. Our increase in accounts receivables in 2011 was mainly due to the increase in media investment revenue, especially the revenue from Hubei Economics Provincial TV which has a relatively longer accounts receivable collections period during its ramp up stage, which was offset by the increase in accounts payable mainly to CCTV. 70 Table of Contents Our net cash provided by operating activities was US$0.3 million in 2012 compared to net cash provided by operating activities US$24.1 million in 2011, primarily as a result of a decrease in net income, Decrease in notes receivable, accounts receivable and prepaid expenses in 2012 was partially offset by decrease in accounts payable and advances from customers. Our decrease of these accounts in 2012 was mainly due to the decrease in media investment management revenue. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities largely reflects our capital expenditures, which consists of purchases of fixed assets, such as computers and other office equipment. Our net cash provided by investing activities amounted to US$2.7 million in 2010, net cash used in investing activities amounted to US$5.5 million in 2011 and net cash used in investing activities amounted to US$5.5 million in 2012. The cash provided by investing activities in 2010 was mainly due to acquisition of Beijing Vizeum Advertising Co., Ltd. The cash used in investing activities in 2011 was primarily due to acquisition of Clickpro and investments to set up joint ventures of Wasu Digital Co., Ltd and Chongqing Changhui. The cash used in investing activities in 2012 was primarily due to acquisition of fixed assets and set up subsidiaries of Beijing Hongtu Zhuoyue Advertising Co., Ltd. and Beijing Guozhi Travel & Culture Co., Ltd., joint ventures of Guangdong Nanfang Media New Broadcast Co., Ltd. and cost method investment of Shanxi Jiuyuanji Culture Industry Investment Co., Ltd. Financing Activities In 2010, we had net cash provided by financing activities of US$40.1 million, which was mainly due to the proceeds from our initial public offering. In 2011, we had net cash used in financing activities of US$7.5 million, which was primarily consisted of the final payment of previously declared dividend to our shareholder and our share repurchase program starting from September 2011. In 2012, we had net cash used in financing activities of US$18.7 million, which was primarily consisted of the final payment of previously declared dividend to our shareholder and our share repurchase program . C. Research and Development, Patents and License, etc. None. D. Trend Information Please refer to “— A. Operating Results — Overview” for a discussion of the most significant recent trends in our services, sales and marketing since the end of 2012. In addition, please refer to discussions included in this Item for a discussion of known trends, uncertainties, demands, commitments or events that we believe are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our net sales or operating revenues, income from continuing operations, profitability, liquidity or capital resources or that would cause reported financial information not necessarily to be indicative of future operating results or financial condition. E. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any financial guarantees or other commitments to guarantee the payment obligations of any third parties. In addition, we have not entered into any derivative contracts that are indexed to our own shares and classified as shareholder’s equity or that are not reflected in our consolidated financial statements. Furthermore, we do not have any retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support to such entity. Moreover, we do not have any variable interest in any unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit support to us or engages in leasing, hedging or research and development services with us. F. Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth our contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2012. Other than such obligations and the contractual obligations described below, we had no other contractual obligations or commercial commitments as of December 31, 2012: Payments Due by Period Total Less than1 Year 1-2 Years 2-3 Years More than3 Years (US$ in thousands) Operating lease obligations 10,138 3,331 3,141 2,527 1,139 Purchase obligation(1) 161,923 125,888 36,035 — — Acquisition consideration payable(2) 3,834 2,507 1,327 — — 71 Table of Contents (1) We also entered into agreements with certain television stations to purchase advertising time. As of December 31, 2012, under these agreements, we are contractually obligated to make total minimum payments US$161,923 for the years ending December 31, 2013 and 2014. (2) In August 2011, we acquired 60% of Clickpro’s business for the purpose of strengthening our performance marketing business. Pursuant to the acquisition agreement, the consideration for the acquisition will be paid in several installments based on the net income of the acquired business. The total outstanding consideration payable as of December 31, 2012 was estimated to be US$3,834, including contingent consideration payable US$2,237. G. Safe Harbor This annual report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. You can identify these forward-looking statements by words or phrases such as “aim,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “likely to,” “may,” “plan,” “will” or other similar expressions. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we believe may affect our financial condition, results of operations, business strategy and financial needs. These forward-looking statements include: • our growth strategies, including, among other things, our plans to expand and enhance our portfolio of television advertising media resources to further broaden coverage, secure additional resources from new advertising media platforms, strengthen capabilities to offer integrated advertising solutions and continue to expand our advertising customer base and budget allocation from our customers; • our plans and expectations with respect to our strategic alliances and joint ventures; • our relationships with joint venture partners and shareholders of our variable interest entities; • our future business development, results of operations and financial condition; • expected changes in our revenues and certain cost or expense items; • our ability to manage the expansion of our operations; • possibility of the PRC government’s tightening regulation and increasing restriction over satellite television; • changes in general economic and business conditions in China; and • trends and competition in the advertising industry in China. The forward-looking statements made in this annual report relate only to events or information as of the date on which the statements are made in this annual report. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, after the date on which the statements are made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. You should read this annual report and the documents that we reference or incorporate in this annual report and have filed as exhibits to this annual report with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Other sections of this annual report include additional factors that could adversely impact our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in an evolving environment. New risk factors and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not possible for our management to predict all risk factors and uncertainties, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. 72 Table of Contents Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees A. Directors and Senior Management The following table sets forth information regarding our executive officers and directors as of the date of this annual report. Directors and Executive Officers Age Position/Title He Dang 46 Chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of our company Andrew J. Rickards 49 Independent director Zhan Wang 36 Independent director Gang Chen 48 Independent director Nick Waters 45 Director Cathy Chen 43 President of agency business Wei Zhou 34 Chief financial officer Tony Yu 57 Chief technology officer Kun Xiao 45 Vice president Linna Li 36 Vice president Xianhao Yu 48 Vice president Johnny Zhu 38 Vice president He Dang is the founder and chief executive officer of our company and the chairman of our board of directors. Prior to founding our company in 1995, he worked at the Ministry of Culture of China and China Culture and Art Development Company. Mr. Dang has over fifteen years of experience in the television advertising industry. Mr. Dang has won many industry awards during his career. He was named one of the ten persons of the year in the Chinese advertising industry jointly by Advertising Pointer, a magazine focusing on advertising in China, and several other organizations in 2004 and 2005, and an outstanding young entrepreneur by Beijing Municipal Bureau of Personnel and Beijing Association of Youth in 2007. Mr. Dang was also named the 2008 Top Contributor in Affecting and Promoting Chinese Brand by Chief Brand Officer Magazine, and won the Jin Yuan Award for Top 10 Leaders in Advertising Industry in 2009 awarded by the Advertiser Market Observer Magazine. In 2006, Mr. Dang was nominated for Advertiser of the Year in China by the China Advertising Association. Mr. Dang received his bachelor’s degree in philosophy from Beijing Normal University in 1989. Andrew J. Rickards has been a director of our company since April 2010. Mr. Rickards has spent the past 21 years working in Asia. He is the founder and managing partner of Moonblue Capital Limited, an investment firm based in Hong Kong, which was established in 2008. From 2007 to 2008, Mr. Rickards was a managing director at Providence Equity Partners, a private equity firm that focuses on media, communications, entertainment and information investments. From 2004 to 2007, he was the chief executive officer of N. M. Rothschild & Sons (Hong Kong) Limited where he was responsible for its investment banking business in Asia. Prior to joining N. M. Rothschild, he was a managing director at Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C. in the communications, media and entertainment investment banking team in Asia from 1999 to 2003 and a partner of Goldman Sachs JBWere Ltd. in Australia from 2003 to 2004. Mr. Rickards received his Bachelor of Science in Engineering from Exeter University in 1984 and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. Zhan Wang has been a director of our company since April 2010. Mr. Wang is currently a vice president at Baidu, Inc., a Nasdaq listed company based in China. Mr. Wang joined Baidu as the head of commercial products in 2000. At Baidu, Mr. Wang has focused on the development of commercial products, operations and service management and participated in many of Baidu’s innovations, including as chief product designer of the Phoenix Nest system launched in 2009. Mr. Wang’s responsibilities at Baidu have also included developing improvements to commercial products and search marketing services. Mr. Wang received his bachelor’s degree in physics from Peking University in 1999. 73 Table of Contents Gang Chen has been a director of our company since April 2011. Mr. Chen is currently the deputy dean of the School of Journalism and Communication of Peking University. Mr. Chen has been deputy dean at Peking University since March 2006. Mr. Chen also serves in high-level positions with multiple organizations in the advertising industry, such as deputy director of the Academic Committee of the China Advertising Association, deputy director at the Media Committee of China Association of National Advertisers and vice president of the China Advertising Education and Research Committee. Mr. Chen has also provided consulting expertise to many major enterprises in media and other sectors, including China Central Television, Sina Corporation, the People’s Insurance Company of China and China Merchants Bank. Mr. Chen received a bachelor’s degree in philosophy in 1990 and a Ph.D. in philosophy in 1998 from Peking University. Nick Waters has been a director of our company since December 2011. Mr. Waters is currently the chief executive officer of Aegis Media Asia Pacific. Prior to joining Aegis Media, Mr. Waters held several management roles from 1997 to 2010 at the WPP-owned media agency Mindshare in Europe and Asia, including time as CEO of Southeast Asia (2001-2005), CEO of Asia Pacific (2005-2006) and CEO of Europe, Middle East and Africa (2006-2010). Mr. Waters received his bachelor’s degree from University of Nottingham in 1992. Cathy Chen has been our president of agency business from August 2012. Prior to joining Charm, she worked as consultant with several private funds such as FountainVest Partners and BaoFeng Partners from 2010. Before that she served as chief marketing officer at GE HealthCare (China) Co. Ltd (“GE Healthcare”) from 2009 to 2010, where she was responsible for planning and expanding GE Healthcare’s Greater China marketing strategy. Prior to working at GE Healthcare, Ms. Chen served as general manager of Eastern China for Motorola (North Asia) Co. Ltd. from 2007 to 2009, cluster marketing director of Greater China for Shell (China) Co., Ltd. from 2005 to 2007, national marketing director and general manager of kitchen appliances at Electrolux (China) Co., Ltd. from 1997 to 2004 and marketing manager of North China for PepsiCo Foods International Co., Ltd. from 1996 to 1997. Ms. Chen received her master’s degree in business management from Peking University in 2003 and graduated from Chengdu Electronic Technology University in 1992. Wei Zhou has been our chief financial officer since November 2009. From June 2008 to October 2009, Mr. Zhou was the chief financial officer of Zhaopin Limited, which operates one of the largest online recruitment websites ( www.zhaopin.com ) in China. Mr. Zhou also served as Zhaopin’s Director of Strategic Planning from July 2005 to May 2007. While at Zhaopin, Mr. Zhou managed a finance department with over 100 staff operating in 21 cities across China and helped to raise equity investments from both financial and strategic investors. From June 2007 to May 2008, Mr. Zhou served as an associate director with a Hong Kong based investment fund Abax Global Capital, focusing on direct investments in private and public-sector Chinese companies. From 2001 to 2005, Mr. Zhou worked in the Hong Kong office of Goldman Sachs in the investment banking division and the Asian Special Situations Group. While at Goldman Sachs, Mr. Zhou advised on a variety of merger and acquisition and equity transactions. Mr. Zhou currently serves as an independent director and the chairman of the audit committee of Sky-mobi Limited (Nasdaq: MOBI), which operates the leading mobile application store in China. Mr. Zhou received his bachelor’s degree from Harvard University in 2001. Tony Yu joined our company as our chief technology officer in October 2011. Prior to joining Charm, from 2004 to 2011, Mr. Yu worked as chief technology officer at Zhaopin Limited, which operates one of the largest online recruitment websites in China, zhaopin.com. While at Zhaopin, he was responsible for all of Zhaopin’s front-end and back-end IT, including the daily operations of the website as well as the development of its sales force management infrastructure. Before joining Zhaopin, he had gained over 15 years of experience in the technology field in the United States and China, including working as an internet application consultant at go.com and as an application system consultant at Home Savings of America. Mr. Yu received an MBA degree from Rutgers in 2001, the State University of New Jersey and a bachelor’s degree in computer science from the University of Central Oklahoma in 1986. Kun Xiao has been with our company since 2003 and a vice president of our company since 2007. From 2001 to 2003, Mr. Xiao was the creative director of Yi Chun Qiu Advertising Company, an advertising company that specializes in servicing beverage industry customers. Mr. Xiao won the China Advertisement Case Study Golden Award, Silver Award and Bronze Award from Beijing Ad Man Magazine in 2009 and Beijing Creative Designer of the Year in 2008 from Beijing Creative Design Association. Mr. Xiao received his bachelor’s degree in logistics science from Beijing Technology and Business University in 1991. Linna Li has been our vice president in our CCTV buying platform since June 2010. Ms. Li has a wealth of experience in the advertising industry from over 14 years with our company and has extensive specialist knowledge of media buying. Her knowledge and dedication have made a significant contribution to building our agency business and helped make us the largest buyer of CCTV media resources for each of the last seven years. Ms. Li receive her graduate degree in Economics from the Chinese Academy of Social Science Graduate School in 1998. Xianhao Yu has been with our company serving as a vice president in charge of media planning since July 2010. Mr. Xianhao Yu is an industry veteran with 17 years of experience in brand management across different media platforms. From 2005 to 2010, Mr. Yu served for five years as the director of advertising and planning, responsible for all marketing activities at Jinmailang, one of China’s leading domestic food and beverage groups and the second — largest manufacturer of instant noodles in China. From 1997 to 2005, Mr. Yu worked with several local advertising agencies in China and Taiwan, accumulating experience with leading mainland and Taiwanese brands, including Mengniu, Uni-President, Bright Dairy and Jinlongyu. Mr. Yu received his college degree in Radio and Television from the World College of Journalism in 1988. 74 Table of Contents Johnny Zhu has been our vice president since March 2013. Johnny Honggang Zhu was the founder and general manager of ClickPro, which was acquired by Charm and integrated into Charm Click in 2011. Prior to Clickpro, Mr. Zhu was head of sales support at Google China, where he developed and trained the company’s first SEM team from Sep 2005 to Nov 2007. Prior to that, Mr. Zhu was a senior marketing director and head of digital marketing activities at eBay China from 2000 to 2005. Johnny received his master degree in management from shanghai university of finance and economics and bachelor degree in management from Shanghai Institute of Foreign Trade in 1997. The address of our directors and executive officers is: c/o Charm Communications Inc., Legend Town, CN01 Floor 4, No.1 Ba Li Zhuang Dong Li, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100025, China. B. Compensation of Directors, Supervisors and Executive Officers Compensation For the year ended December 31, 2012, we paid an aggregate of approximately US$1.11 million in cash to our executive officers. We also granted options to purchase an aggregate of 2,544,000 ordinary shares to our existing directors and executive officers pursuant to our equity incentive plan adopted in March 2008. See “— 2008 Share Incentive Plan.” We do not pay or set aside any amounts for pension, retirement or other benefits for our officers and directors except our contributions on behalf of our executive officers to a government-mandated multi-employer defined contribution plan. Our total contribution to such plan, including contributions made on behalf of our executive officers and other employees, was US$3.4 million for 2012. 2008 Share Incentive Plan In April 2008, we adopted our 2008 Share Incentive Plan, or the 2008 Share Incentive Plan, to attract and retain personnel, provide additional incentives to our employees, directors and consultants and promote the success of our business. The 2008 Share Incentive Plan provides for the grant of options, restricted shares and restricted share units, collectively referred to as awards. Our board of directors has authorized the issuance of up to 15% of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares upon exercise of awards granted under our 2008 Share Incentive Plan. Plan Administration. The compensation committee of our board of directors, or before the compensation committee is established, our board of directors, will administer the 2008 Share Incentive Plan. The compensation committee or the full board of directors, as appropriate, will determine the participants to receive awards, the type and number of awards to be granted and the terms and conditions of each award grant. Award Agreements. Awards granted under our 2008 Share Incentive Plan are evidenced by an award agreement that sets forth the terms, conditions and limitations for each grant, which may include the term of the award, the provisions applicable in the event of the grantee’s employment or service terminates and our authority to unilaterally or bilaterally amend, modify, suspend, cancel or rescind the award. Transfer Restrictions. The right of a grantee in an award granted under our 2008 Share Incentive Plan may not be transferred in any manner by the grantee other than by will or the laws of succession and with limited exceptions, may be exercised during the lifetime of the grantee only by the grantee. Option Exercise. The term of options granted under the 2008 Share Incentive Plan may not exceed five years from the date of grant. The consideration to be paid for our ordinary shares upon exercise of an option or purchase of shares underlying the option may include cash, check or other cash-equivalent, ordinary shares, consideration received by us in a cashless exercise or any combination of the foregoing methods of payment. In April 2013, we have amended the term of options granted under the 2008 Share Incentive Plan which shall not exceed ten years from the date of grant. 75 Table of Contents Acceleration upon a Change of Control. If a change of control of our company occurs, the award agreement may provide for acceleration of the vesting of the awards pursuant to the agreement. Our compensation committee or our board of directors may (i) cancel the awards for fair market value, (ii) provide for issuance of substitute awards or (iii) provide that for at least 15 days prior to the change of control, the awards shall be exercisable as to all shares subject thereto and such awards shall terminate after the change of control. Termination and Amendment. Unless terminated earlier, our 2008 Share Incentive Plan will expire after ten years. Our board of directors has the authority to amend or terminate our 2008 Share Incentive Plan, subject to shareholder approval to the extent necessary to comply with applicable law. Our board of directors has only granted options to participants in our 2008 Share Incentive Plan. As of December 31, 2012, there were 5,639,571 ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding share options at a weighted average exercise price of US$1.55 per share and there were 268,000 ordinary shares available for future issuance under our 2008 Share Incentive Plan. The following table summarizes, as of December 31, 2012 the options granted to our directors and executive officers and other individuals as a group, without giving effect to options that were exercised or terminated. Name Options orRestricted SharesAwarded Exercise Price orPurchase Price(US$/Share) Date of Grant Date of Expiration He Dang 1,100,000 1.00 April 8, 2008 April 8, 2013 Andrew J. Rickards * Nil ** April 9, 2010 April 9, 2015 Zhan Wang * Nil ** April 9, 2010 April 2, 2013 April 9, 2015 April 2, 2018 Gang Chen * 1.00/Nil April 8, 2008 July 25, 2011 April 8, 2018 July 25, 2016 ** Wei Zhou * Nil ** November 1, 2009 November 1, 2014 Xiao Kun * 1.00 April 8, 2008 April 8, 2018 ** Li Linna * 1.00 April 8, 2008 April 8, 2018 ** Yu Xianhao * 3.40 April 9, 2010 April 9, 2015 Yu Yong Tong * 4.45 July 25, 2011 July 25, 2016 Other individuals as a group 3,634,483 1.00-4.45 Various dates Various dates * Less than 1% of our outstanding ordinary shares ** The grants amended in April 2013. 2011 Share Incentive Plan In December 2011, we adopted our 2011 Share Incentive Plan, or the 2011 Share Incentive Plan, to attract and retain personnel, provide additional incentives to our employees, directors and consultants and promote the success of our business. The 2011 Share Incentive Plan provides for the grant of options, restricted shares and restricted share units, collectively referred to as awards. Our board of directors has authorized the issuance of up to 2,000,000 outstanding ordinary shares upon exercise of awards granted under our 2011 Share Incentive Plan. Plan Administration. The compensation committee of our board of directors will administer the 2011 Share Incentive Plan. The compensation committee will determine the participants to receive awards, the type and number of awards to be granted and the terms and conditions of each award grant. Award Agreements. Awards granted under our 2011 Share Incentive Plan are evidenced by an award agreement that sets forth the terms, conditions and limitations for each grant, which may include the term of the award, the provisions applicable in the event of the grantee’s employment or service terminates and our authority to unilaterally or bilaterally amend, modify, suspend, cancel or rescind the award. 76 Table of Contents Transfer Restrictions. The right of a grantee in an award granted under our 2011 Share Incentive Plan may not be transferred in any manner by the grantee other than by will or the laws of succession and with limited exceptions, may be exercised during the lifetime of the grantee only by the grantee. Option Exercise. The term of options granted under the 2011 Share Incentive Plan may not exceed five years from the date of grant. The consideration to be paid for our ordinary shares upon exercise of an option or purchase of shares underlying the option may include cash, check or other cash-equivalent, ordinary shares, consideration received by us in a cashless exercise or any combination of the foregoing methods of payment. Acceleration upon a Change of Control. If a change of control of our company occurs, under the 2011 Share Incentive Plan, the award agreement may provide for acceleration of the vesting of the awards pursuant to the agreement. Our compensation committee may (i) cancel the awards for fair market value, (ii) provide for issuance of substitute awards or (iii) provide that for at least 15 days prior to the change of control, the awards shall be exercisable as to all shares subject thereto and such awards shall terminate after the change of control. Termination and Amendment. Unless terminated earlier, our 2011 Share Incentive Plan will expire after ten years from the date of grant. Our board of directors has the authority to amend or terminate our 2011 Share Incentive Plan, subject to shareholder approval to the extent necessary to comply with applicable law. C. Board Practices Board of Directors Our board of directors currently consists of five directors. Under our amended and restated articles of association, which came into effect upon the closing of our initial public offering in May 2010, our board of directors should consist of at least three directors. Our directors are appointed by ordinary resolution. A director is not required to hold any shares in us by way of qualification. Rule 5615(a)(3) of the Nasdaq Listing Rules permits foreign private issuers such as our company to follow “home country practice” with respect to certain corporate governance matters. As a result, we follow the corporate governance practice in our home country, the Cayman Islands, in respect of the oversight of our executive officer compensation and director nominations matters. As our home country practice does not require independent director oversight of executive officer compensation and director nominations matters, our compensation committee and corporate governance and nomination committees are not comprised solely of independent directors. Each committee’s members and functions are described below. Audit Committee. Our audit committee consists of Andrew J. Rickards, Zhan Wang and Gang Chen. Our board of directors has determined that each of Andrew J. Rickards, Zhan Wang and Gang Chen satisfies the “independence” requirements of Rule 10A-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 5605(a)(2) of the Nasdaq Listing Rules. Andrew J. Rickards is the chairman of our audit committee and meets the criteria of an audit committee financial expert as set forth under the applicable rules of the SEC. Our audit committee will oversee our accounting and financial reporting processes and the audits of the financial statements of our company. The audit committee is responsible for, among other things: • selecting the independent auditors and pre-approving all auditing and non-auditing services permitted to be performed by the independent auditors; • reviewing with the independent auditors any audit problems or difficulties and management’s response; • reviewing and approving all proposed related party transactions, as defined in Item 404 of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act; 77 Table of Contents • discussing the annual audited financial statements with management and the independent auditors; • reviewing major issues as to the adequacy of our internal controls and any special audit steps adopted in light of material control deficiencies; • annually reviewing and reassessing the adequacy of our audit committee charter; • meeting separately and periodically with management and the independent auditors; and • reporting regularly to our board of directors. Compensation Committee. Our compensation committee consists of Andrew J. Rickards, Zhan Wang and He Dang. He Dang is the chairman of our compensation committee. Our board of directors has determined that each of Andrew J. Rickards and Zhan Wang satisfies the “independence” requirements of Rule 5605(a)(2) of the Nasdaq Listing Rules. Our compensation committee assists the board in reviewing and approving the compensation structure, including all forms of compensation, relating to our directors and executive officers. The compensation committee is responsible for, among other things: • reviewing and recommending to the board with respect to the total compensation package for our three most senior executives; • approving and overseeing the total compensation package for our executives other than the three most senior executives; • reviewing and recommending to the board with respect to the compensation of our directors; and • reviewing periodically and approving any long-term incentive compensation or equity plans, programs or similar arrangements, annual bonuses, employee pension and welfare benefit plans. Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee. Our corporate governance and nominating committee consists of Andrew J. Rickards, Zhan Wang and He Dang. He Dang is the chairman of our corporate governance and nominating committee. Our board of directors has determined that each of Andrew J. Rickards and Zhan Wang satisfies the “independence” requirements of Rule 5605(a)(2) of the Nasdaq Listing Rules. Our corporate governance and nominating committee assist the board of directors in selecting individuals qualified to become our directors and in determining the composition of the board and its committees. The corporate governance and nominating committee is responsible for, among other things: • selecting and recommending to the board nominees for election or re-election to the board, or for appointment to fill any vacancy; • reviewing annually with the board the current composition of the board with regards to characteristics such as independence, age, skills, experience and availability of service to us; • selecting and recommending to the board the names of directors to serve as members of the audit committee and the compensation committee, as well as the corporate governance and nominating committee itself; • advising the board periodically with regard to significant developments in the law and practice of corporate governance as well as our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, making recommendations to the board on all matters of corporate governance and on any remedial action to be taken; and • monitoring compliance with our code of business conduct and ethics, including reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of our procedures to ensure proper compliance. 78 Table of Contents Duties of Directors Under Cayman Islands law, our directors have a fiduciary duty to act honestly, in good faith and with a view to our best interests. Our directors also have a duty to exercise the skills they actually possess and such care and diligence that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. In fulfilling their duty of care to us, our directors must ensure compliance with our memorandum and articles of association, as amended and restated from time to time. A shareholder has the right to seek damages if a duty owed by our directors is breached. The functions and powers of our board of directors include, among others: • convening shareholders’ annual general meetings and reporting its work to shareholders at such meetings; • issuing authorized but unissued shares and redeem or purchase outstanding shares of our company in accordance with applicable Cayman Islands laws and our memorandum and articles of association; • declaring dividends and other distributions; • appointing officers and determining the term of office of officers; • exercising the borrowing powers of our company and mortgaging the property of our company; and • approving the transfer of shares of our company, including the registration of such shares in our share register. Terms of Directors and Officers Our officers are elected by and serve at the discretion of our shareholders and the board of directors. Our directors are not subject to a term of office and hold office until such time as they are removed from office by special resolution or the unanimous written resolution of all shareholders. A director will be removed from office automatically if, among other things, the director (i) becomes bankrupt or makes any arrangement or composition with his creditors; or (ii) dies or is found by our company to be or becomes of unsound mind. Appointment of Directors Under the terms of the amended and restated shareholders agreement, dated January 20, 2010, among us, Mr. He Dang and certain of his affiliated entities, Chaview Investments Limited and Aegis Media, after the completion of our initial public offering, Aegis Media continues to have the right to designate one of our directors if Aegis Media holds no less than 10% of our issued share capital. The director currently designated on our board of directors by Aegis Media is Nick Waters. Employment Agreements We have entered into employment agreements with each of our executive officers. We may terminate an executive officer’s employment for cause, at any time, without notice or remuneration, for certain acts of the officer, including, but not limited to, a conviction or plea of guilty to a felony, willful misconduct to our detriment or a failure to perform agreed duties. We may also terminate an executive officer’s employment without cause by a 30-day prior written notice. An executive officer may terminate his or her employment with or without cause by a three-month prior written notice. We agreed to indemnify an executive officer for his or her losses based on or related to his or her acts and decisions made in the performance of duties within the scope of his or her employment. Our executive officers have also agreed not to engage in any activities that compete with us for a period of two years after termination of employment. The employment agreements also require each of our executive officers to strictly maintain his or her confidentiality obligations for the duration of his or her employment and for a period of two years after termination of employment. 79 Table of Contents Each executive officer has agreed to hold in strict confidence any trade secrets or technical secrets of our company. Each executive officer also agrees to comply with all material applicable laws and regulations related to his or her responsibilities at our company as well as all material corporate and business policies and procedures of our company. Indemnification Agreements We have entered into indemnification agreements with each of our directors and executive officers. Insofar as indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, may be permitted to directors, officers or persons controlling us pursuant to these indemnification agreements, we have been informed that in the opinion of the SEC, such indemnification is against public policy and is therefore unenforceable. Interested Transactions A director who is in any way, whether directly or indirectly, interested in a contract or proposed contract with our company shall declare the nature of his interest at a meeting of the directors. A general notice given to the directors by any director to the effect that he is a member of any specified company or firm and is to be regarded as interested in any contract, which may thereafter be made with that company or firm shall be deemed a sufficient declaration of interest in regard to any contract so made. A director may vote in respect of any contract or proposed contract or arrangement notwithstanding that he may be interested therein and if he does so, his vote shall be counted and he may be counted in the quorum at any meeting of the directors at which any such contract or proposed contract or arrangement shall come before the meeting for consideration. Remuneration and Borrowing The directors may determine remuneration to be paid to the directors. The compensation committee assists the directors in reviewing and approving the compensation structure for the directors. The directors may exercise all the powers of our company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge its undertaking, property and uncalled capital or any part thereof to issue debentures, debenture stock and other securities whenever money is borrowed or as security for any debt, liability or obligation of our company or of any third party. Qualification A director is not required to hold any shares in our company by way of qualification. D. Employees As of December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, we had 525, 691 and 813 full-time employees, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, we had 28 professionals engaged in creative roles, 398 professionals engaged in sales and marketing roles and 99 professionals engaged in providing supporting services, such as finance and administration. Among sales and marketing roles, there are 99 professionals who specialized in digital communications. As of December 31, 2011, we had 25 professionals engaged in creative roles, 546 professionals engaged in sales and marketing roles and 120 professionals engaged in providing supporting services, such as finance and administration. As of December 31, 2012, we had 34 professionals engaged in creative roles, 644 professionals engaged in sales and marketing roles and 135 professionals engaged in providing supporting services, such as finance and administration. We plan to hire additional employees in all functions as we grow our business. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or other collective bargaining agreements. Since our inception, we have never experienced a strike or other disruption of employment. We believe our relationships with our employees are good. The remuneration package of our employees includes salary, bonus, stock options, other cash benefits and benefits in-kind. In accordance with applicable regulations in China, we participate in a pension contribution plan, a medical insurance plan, an unemployment insurance plan, a personal injury insurance plan and a housing reserve fund for the benefit of all of our employees. Our total contribution for such employee benefits required by applicable regulations amounted to approximately US$1.6 million, US$2.6 million and US$3.4 million for 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. 80 Table of Contents E. Share Ownership Each of our directors, supervisors and executive officers holds our shares either directly for their own account or indirectly as the representative of another legal entity on our board of directors. The following table sets forth the share ownership of our directors, supervisors and executive officers as of March 31, 2013, our most recent record date by: • each of our directors and executive officers; • all of our directors and executive officers as a group; or • each person known to us to own beneficially more than 5.0% of either Class A ordinary shares or Class B ordinary shares. The calculations in the table below assume there are 77,897,380 ordinary shares (including both Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares on a combined basis) outstanding as of March 31, 2013, our most recent record date. Beneficial ownership is determined in accordance with Rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act. In computing the number of shares beneficially owned by a person and the percentage ownership of that person, we have included shares that the person has the right to acquire within 60 days of March 31, 2013, including through the exercise of any option, warrant or other right or the conversion of any other security. These shares, however, are not included in the computation of the percentage ownership of any other person. Ordinary SharesBeneficially Owned Name Number % Directors and Executive Officers: He Dang(1) 47,260,000 57.5 Nick Waters(2) 12,390,000 15.5 Andrew J. Rickards * * Zhan Wang * * Gang Chen * * Cathy Chen * * Wei Zhou * * Tony Yu * * Kun Xiao * * Linna Li * * Xianhao Yu * * Johnny Zhu * * All directors and executive officers as a group(3) 60,266,741 72.8 Other Principal Shareholders: Merry Circle Trading Limited(4) 44,016,250 55.0 Aegis Media Pacific Ltd(5). 12,390,000 15.5 Chaview Investments Limited(6) 5,000,000 6.2 Invesco Ltd.(7) 2,059,170 2.6 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC(8) 1,906,515 2.4 * Less than 1%. (1) Includes 44,016,250 Class B ordinary shares owned by Merry Circle Trading Limited, a British Virgin Islands company and 1,093,750 Class B ordinary shares owned by Honour Idea Limited, a British Virgin Islands company. Mr. He Dang is the sole shareholder and sole director of Honour Idea Limited. Mr. He Dang is the sole director of Merry Circle Trading Limited, which is owned by Full Quantum Investments Limited, a Bahamian company. Full Quantum Investments Limited is in turn wholly owned by the Dang Family Trust. Credit Suisse Trust Limited is the trustee of the Dang Family Trust, which is a discretionary trust constituted under the laws of Singapore with Mr. He Dang as settlor and Mr. He Dang and certain of his family members as beneficiaries. The business address of Mr. He Dang is c/o Charm Communications Inc., Legend Town, CN01 Floor 4, No.1 Ba Li Zhuang Dong Li, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100025, China. (2) Includes 12,390,000 Class B ordinary shares held by Aegis Media Pacific Ltd. Mr. Waters disclaims beneficial ownership of these shares except to the extent of any pecuniary interests therein. 81 Table of Contents (3) Includes (i) ordinary shares beneficially owned by all of our directors and executive officers as a group and (ii) ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of all options that are exercisable within 60 days of April 30, 2011 held by all of our directors and executive officers as a group. (4) The mailing address of Merry Circle Trading Limited, a British Virgin Islands company is 21st Floor, Edinburgh Tower, The Landmark, 15 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong. Mr. He Dang is the sole director of Merry Circle Trading Limited, which is owned by Full Quantum Investments Limited, a Bahamian company. Full Quantum Investments Limited is in turn wholly owned by the Dang Family Trust. Credit Suisse Trust Limited is the trustee of the Dang Family Trust, which is a discretionary trust constituted under the laws of Singapore with Mr. He Dang as settlor and Mr. He Dang and certain of his family members as beneficiaries. The business address of Mr. He Dang is c/o Charm Communications Inc., Legend Town, CN01 Floor 4, No.1 Ba Li Zhuang Dong Li, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100025, China. (5) The mailing address of Aegis Media Pacific Ltd. is Parker Tower, 43-49 Parker Street, London, England, WC2B 5P5. Aegis Media Pacific Ltd. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Aegis Group plc. Nick Waters is the chief executive officer of Aegis Media Asia Pacific Management Ltd., an affiliate of Aegis Media, and disclaims beneficial ownership of the ordinary shares held by Aegis Media except to the extent of any pecuniary interest therein. (6) Includes 5,000,000 Class B ordinary shares held by Chaview Investments Limited. The mailing address of Chaview Investments Limited is PO Box 309, Ugland House, Grand Cayman, KY1-1104, Cayman Islands. Chaview Investments Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of AIF Capital Asia III, L.P., whose general partner is AIF Capital Asia III GP Limited. The mailing address of AIF Capital Asia III GP Limited is PO Box 309, Ugland House, Grand Cayman, KY1-1104, Cayman Islands. (7) Represents 2,059,170 Class A ordinary shares held by Invesco Ltd., as reported on a Schedule 13G filed by Invesco Ltd. on February 13, 2013. The 2,059,170 Class A ordinary shares beneficially owned by Invesco Ltd. represent 13.5% of Class A ordinary shares. (8) Represents 1,906,515 Class A ordinary shares held by Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, as reported on a Schedule 13G filed by Aberdeen Asset Management PLC on January 25, 2013. The 1,906,515 Class A ordinary shares beneficially owned by Aberdeen Asset Management PLC represent 25.09% of Class A ordinary shares. As of March 31, 2013, 80,063,252 ordinary shares (all of the outstanding Class A ordinary shares in the form of ADSs) or 23.9% of our outstanding ordinary shares including both Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares on a combined basis are held by one record holder in the United States. Because many of these shares are held by brokers or other nominees, we cannot ascertain the exact number of beneficial shareholders with addresses in the United States. Our ordinary shares are divided into Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Holders of Class A ordinary shares are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B ordinary shares are entitled to five votes per share. We issued Class A ordinary shares represented by our ADSs in our initial public offering. We are not aware of any arrangement that may, at a subsequent date, result in a change of control of our company. Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions A. Major Shareholders Please refer to “Item 6E. Directors, Senior Management and Employees — Share Ownership.” B. Related Party Transactions Private Placements In July 2008, we issued and sold an aggregate of 7,500,000 Series A preferred shares to Dynasty Cayman Limited and Swift Rise International Limited, at an aggregate purchase price of US$30 million. In August 2008, we issued and sold an aggregate of 5,000,000 Series A preferred shares to Chaview Investments Limited at an aggregate purchase price of US$20 million. Each of the purchasers of the Series A preferred shares was an unrelated third party prior to the issuance and sale of the Series A preferred shares. The purchase price was determined through our arm’s-length negotiation with the investors and was approved by our board of directors. Holders of our Series A preferred shares are entitled to vote on an “as-converted” basis together with the holder of ordinary shares. In January 2010, in connection with the formation of our consolidated joint venture with Aegis Media, we redeemed an aggregate of 7,500,000 Series A shares previously held by Swift Rise International Limited and Dynasty Cayman Limited for an aggregate amount of approximately US$37.0 million, which consisted of a principal amount of US$30.0 million and a redemption premium amount of US$7.0 million pursuant to the original terms. In addition, we paid accumulated premiums of US$4.4 million on the 5,000,000 Series A preferred shares which remained outstanding. Each outstanding Series A preferred share was automatically converted into one ordinary share upon completion of our initial public offering in May 2010. 82 Table of Contents In connection with the private placement of our Series A preferred shares, we, holders of our Series A preferred shareholders and the holders of our ordinary shares entered into a shareholders’ agreement, which was amended and restated on January 20, 2010 in connection with the formation of our consolidated joint venture with Aegis Media. See “— Consolidated Joint Venture with Aegis Media” and “— Investment by Aegis Media.” Holders of our Series A preferred shares are also entitled to certain registration rights, as amended and restated as of January 20, 2010 including demand registration and Form F-3 or Form S-3 registration, pursuant to a registration rights agreement entered into in connection with the sale of our Series A preferred shares and as amended in connection with the formation of our consolidated joint venture with Aegis Media. Consolidated Joint Venture with Aegis Media In January 2010, we formed a consolidated joint venture with international 4A advertising group Aegis Media to operate its brand “Vizeum” in China. The legal ownership of all of the outstanding equity interests of Beijing Vizeum are held by Posterscope. Our subsidiary Media Port holds 60% of the outstanding equity interests in Posterscope, which were subscribed for a purchase price of RMB3.6 million. During the two-year period from January 1, 2016, Aegis Media will have the right to acquire a majority of the shares of Posterscope by purchasing from us 11% of the outstanding shares of Posterscope. If Aegis Media so acquires a majority of the shares of Posterscope, then beginning on January 1, 2018, Aegis Media will have the right to purchase an additional number of our shares of Posterscope and we will have the right to sell an additional number of our shares of Posterscope to Aegis Media. In addition, in the ten-year period from January 1, 2024, Aegis Media will have the right to purchase all of our remaining shares of Posterscope and we will have the right to sell all of our remaining shares of Posterscope to Aegis Media. The consideration for the transfers described above will be based on a multiple of the average after-tax profits of Posterscope for the two-year period prior to a transfer. Since its formation, our revenues attributable to the Posterscope joint venture have been historically relatively insignificant. For example, in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010, December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2012, our revenues attributable to the Posterscope joint venture were 3.0%, 4.4% and 7.8% respectively. Investment by Aegis Media Concurrent with the formation of our consolidated joint venture with Aegis Media, we issued 12,390,000 ordinary shares to Aegis Media at an aggregate price of approximately US$49.6 million. The proceeds from the issuance were used by us to redeem an aggregate of 7,500,000 Series A preferred shares held by Swift Rise International Limited and Dynasty Cayman Limited for an aggregate amount of approximately US$37.0 million, which consisted of a principal amount of US$30.0 million and a redemption premium amount of US$7.0 million pursuant to the original terms, and to pay accumulated premiums of US$4.4 million on the 5,000,000 Series A preferred shares which remained outstanding. In order to satisfy Aegis Media’s desire to hold no less than certain percentage of our share capital, Mr. He Dang agreed to sell to us 4,890,000 ordinary shares beneficially held by him. Aegis Media has agreed that, after our initial public offering, it would not acquire more than 25% of our voting securities without the prior approval of our board of directors. Aegis Media is also entitled to certain registration rights pursuant to a registration rights agreement. We, Mr. He Dang and certain of his affiliated entities, Aegis Media, and Chaview Investments Limited also entered into a shareholders’ agreement, amended and restated as of January 20, 2010, under the terms of which we and Mr. He Dang and certain of his affiliated entities have agreed to restrictions on the solicitation of clients and employees of Aegis Media or the consolidated joint venture, and Aegis Media has agreed to restrictions on the solicitation of clients and employees of our company or the consolidated joint venture. In addition, Mr. He Dang and certain of his affiliated entities have agreed to restrictions on participating in businesses, other than those of our company, that compete with us, Aegis Media or the consolidated joint venture. In addition, Aegis Media has the right to designate one of our directors if Aegis Media holds no less than 10% of our issued share capital. 83 Table of Contents Other Transactions with Shareholders Advertising Service We received or provided certain advertising service to one of our shareholder’s subsidiary and our one equity investment entity and paid or received cash accordingly. The price was determined based on market price. Such transactions are related to the advertising agency business and hence the corresponding provision of advertising services is recognized in the net revenues under advertising agency on a net basis in the consolidated statements of operations. Revenue from the related parties recognized in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012 was US$7.5 million. The related party balance as of December 31, 2012 in connection with the advertising service received or provided was US$1.9 million receivable and US$13.3 million in accounts payable mostly in connection with the advertising service provided or received from the shareholder’s subsidiary. The balance with related parties is due within one year. Office and Automobile Leases We leased office space and automobiles from the controlling shareholder and his family member. The rental amount was determined based on market prices. Rental expenses for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012 were US$0.7 million, US$0.9 million and nil, respectively. The related party balances at the end of the year 2010, 2011 and 2012 were nil, respectively in connection with the unpaid rental expenses to the controlling shareholder. Other Transactions During the year 2011, we received a deposit of US$159 from Chongqing Changhui, which acted as an agent of customers placing advertisement through us. There was no such transaction in 2012. The related party balances at the end of the years 2011 and 2012 were US$159 and US$159 in amounts due to related party in connection with this. During the year 2011, we received injection of capital of US$162, for an entity to be established, from Mr. Zhu Hong Gang, the noncontrolling shareholder of Clickpro and the management responsible for Clickpro’s business. The related party balances at the end of the years 2011 and 2012 were US$162 and US$164 in amounts due to related party in connection with this. On the other hand, Mr. Zhu Hong Gang received an advertising fee of US$346 on behalf of us during the year 2011, which was paid back to us in 2012. The related party balances at the end of the years 2011 and 2012 were US$346 and nil in amounts due from related party in connection with this. Staff cost and the royalty fee of Vizeum paid by Aegis Media during the years of 2011 and 2012, were US$799 and US$1,191, respectively. The related party balance at the end of the year 2011 and 2012 were nil and US$1,206 in connection with this. Transactions Related to Our Corporate Structure See “