ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Concentration of loans in our primary market area may increase risk. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in upstate New York, as nearly all of our loans are to customers in this market. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in upstate New York have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans. As such, a decline in real estate valuations in this market would lower the value of the collateral securing those loans. In addition, a significant weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, or other factors beyond our control could negatively affect our financial results. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Our financial results depend substantially on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Because our interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, an increase in 41 Table of Contents interest rates generally would tend to result in a decrease in our net interest income. We have taken steps to mitigate this risk such as holding fewer longer-term residential mortgages as well as investing excess funds in shorter-term investments. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets and in particular our investment securities available for sale. Generally, the value of our investment securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2010, our investment securities available for sale totaled $227.5 million. Unrealized losses on our securities available for sale totaled $7.1 million and are reported in other comprehensive income as a separate component of our stockholders’ equity. Decreases in the fair value of our securities available for sale, therefore, could have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity or our earnings if the decrease in fair value is deemed to be other than temporary. Changes in interest rates may also affect the average life of our loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on our existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. A majority of our real estate loans held for investment are adjustable-rate loans. Any rise in market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable rate mortgage loans, increasing the possibility of default. In addition, although adjustable-rate mortgage loans help make our loan portfolio more responsive to changes in interest rates, the extent of this interest sensitivity is limited by the annual and lifetime interest rate adjustment limits. At December 31, 2010, approximately 62.7% of our total loans had adjustable rates of interest. We could record future losses on our securities portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we recognized $2.8 million of impairment losses on securities, of which $399,000 was recognized as other comprehensive loss in the equity section of our balance sheet, and $2.4 million was recognized in our income statement. At December 31, 2010, we held trust preferred securities, corporate debt securities and non-government agency collateralized mortgage obligations with unrealized losses of $3.5 million, $1.0 million and $232,000, respectively. A number of factors or combinations of factors could require us to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that an unrealized loss that exists with respect to these securities constitutes an impairment that is other than temporary, which could result in material losses to us. These factors include, but are not limited to, continued failure by the issuer to make scheduled interest payments, an increase in the severity of the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the continuous duration of the unrealized loss without an improvement in value or changes in market conditions and/or industry or issuer specific factors that would render us unable to forecast a full recovery in value. In addition, the fair values of securities could decline if the overall economy and the financial condition of some of the issuers continue to deteriorate and there remains limited liquidity for these securities. We also hold investment securities for which the fair value option has been elected, which are considered trading securities. Changes in the fair value of these securities are recorded in earnings and may result in higher volatility in our earnings. 42 Table of Contents If our non-performing assets increase, our earnings will suffer. At December 31, 2010, our non-performing assets (which consist of non-accrual loans, loans 90 days or more delinquent, foreclosed real estate assets and non-accruing investment securities) totaled $7.4 million, which is an increase of $4.9 million over non-performing assets at December 31, 2009. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or investments or on real estate owned. We must reserve for probable losses, which are established through a current period charge to income in the provision for loan losses, and from time to time, write down the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carry ing costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our other real estate owned. Further, the resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract us from the overall supervision of operations and other income-producing activities of Oneida Savings Bank. Finally, if our estimate of the allowance for loan losses is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance accordingly. Increases to the allowance for loan losses would cause our earnings to decrease. Our customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to repay the remaining principal balance of the loan. Hence, we may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we rely on loan quality reviews, past loss experience, and an evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, which would require us to make additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease our net income. Our emphasis on the origination of commercial real estate and business loans is one of the more significant factors in determining the amount of our allowance for loan losses. As we continue to emphasize the origination of these loans, additional provisions for loan losses may be necessary which would decrease our earnings. Bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and/or financial condition. Commercial real estate and business loans increase our exposure to credit risks. At December 31, 2010, our portfolio of commercial real estate and multi-family loans totaled $72.0 million, or 25.0% of total loans, and our commercial business loans totaled $41.0 million, or 14.2% of total loans. We plan to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans. Commercial real estate and commercial business loans generally expose us to a greater risk of nonpayment and loss than one-to-four family residential real estate lending because repayment of such loans often depends on the successful business operations and income stream of the borrowers. Additionally, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans. Many of our borrowers have more than one commercial loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adv erse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship may expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four family residential real estate loan. Finally, if we foreclose on a commercial real estate or commercial business loan, our holding period for the collateral, if any, typically is longer than for one-to-four 43 Table of Contents family residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. We target our business lending and marketing strategy towards small to medium-sized businesses. These small to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact these businesses, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our loan portfolio has greater risk due to the substantial number of home equity loans and consumer loans. At December 31, 2010, our home equity loans totaled $42.1 million, or 14.6% of our total loan portfolio. Our home equity loans are primarily secured by second mortgages, and the combined loan-to-value ratio (first and second mortgage liens) for home equity loans may have been as high as 90% at the time of origination and may be higher at present. At December 31, 2010, our consumer loans totaled $35.9 million, or 12.5% of our total loan portfolio, of which $32.3 million consisted of automobile loans. Our automobile loans include a substantial number of automobile loans that are referred to us by participating automobile dealerships located in our market area, although our lending staff underwrites and approves such loans. Our consumer loan portfolio also includes automobile loans originated directly by us, as well as unsecured loans and loans secured by other personal property. Home equity loans and consumer loans generally have greater risk than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans, particularly in the case of loans that are secured by second mortgages or by rapidly depreciable assets, such as automobiles, or that are unsecured. In these cases, we face the risk that collateral, when we have it, for a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance. Particularly with respect to our home equity loans, any decrease in real estate values that adversely affect the value of the property serving as collateral for our loans would have a greater effect on the value of collateral securing a second mortgage. Thus, the recovery of such property could be insufficient to compensate us for the value of these loans. As a result of our large portfolio of home equity loans and consumer loans, it may become necessary to increase our provision for loan losses, which could reduce our profits Municipal deposits are price sensitive and could result in an increase in interest expense or funding fluctuations. In recent years we have had significant growth in our municipal deposits from sources within our market area. These deposits are price sensitive source of funds from both an interest and service charge perspective. We may experience a sudden increase in interest expense if market interest rates rise suddenly or risk the possibility of deposit outflow if we are unwilling to price these deposits as aggressively as our competition. This liquidity risk may require us to sell the investment securities collateralizing the municipal deposits at a loss or to access higher cost borrowings which would result in an increase in our interest expense related. Our operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of our employees. Our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses, and to expand into new businesses and geographic regions depends on our ability to attract retain and motivate our employees. Competition for qualified employees is often intense. Moreover, future laws or regulations limiting the amount of compensation 44 Table of Contents financial institutions may pay to senior management may adversely affect our ability to hire and retain qualified employees. We have continued to increase total revenue and net income from non-banking sources such as insurance commissions and employee benefit consulting and services. Key employees provide expertise in the management of these business lines and develop and maintain customer relationships. The loss of those key employees would adversely affect the growth of our non-banking businesses and their continued profitability. Conditions in insurance markets could adversely affect our earnings. As we have diversified our sources of income, we have become increasingly reliant on non-interest income, particularly insurance fees and commissions. Revenue from these sources could be negatively affected by fluctuating premiums in the insurance markets or other factors beyond our control. Other factors that affect our insurance revenue are the profitability and growth of our clients, continued development of new products and services, as well as our access to new markets. Our insurance revenues and profitability may also be adversely affected by regulatory developments impacting the healthcare and insurance markets, possibly including recent legislative proposals relating to national health insurance. We hold certain intangible assets that in the future could be classified as either partially or fully impaired, which would reduce our earnings and the book values of these assets. We test our intangible assets for impairment at least annually. Our impairment testing incorporates the current market price of our common stock, the estimated fair value of our assets and liabilities, and certain information of similar companies. It is possible that future impairment testing could result in a decline in value of our intangible assets which would adversely affect our financial condition. If we determine an impairment exists at a given point in time, our earnings and the book value of the related intangibles would be reduced by the amount of the impairment. If an impairment loss is recorded, it will have little or no impact on the tangible book value of our shares of common stock or our regulatory capital levels. If we acquire additional financial institutions or financial services companies, it i s likely that the amount of goodwill included in our intangible assets will increase. Strong competition may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. We compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors (whether regional or national institutions) have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our ability to successfully compete in our market area. Higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premiums and special assessments will adversely affect our earnings. Recent bank failures coupled with the severe economic recession and continued weakness in the national economy have significantly reduced the deposit insurance fund’s reserve ratio. On February 27, 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation issued a final rule that alters the way the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation calculates federal deposit insurance assessment rates. Under the rule, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation first establishes an institution’s initial base assessment rate. This initial base assessment rate ranges from 12 to 45 basis points, depending on the risk category of the institution. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation then adjusts the initial base assessment (higher or lower) to 45 Table of Contents obtain the total base assessment rate. The adjustments to the initial base assessment rate are based upon an institution’s levels of unsecured debt, secured liabilities, and brokered deposits. The total base assessment rate ranges from 7 to 77.5 basis points of the institution’s deposits. In addition, on May 22, 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation adopted a final rule levying a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution's assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. We recorded an expense of $258,000 during the quarter ended June 30, 2009, to reflect the special assessment. Any further special assessments that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation levies will be recorded as an expense during the appropriate period. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation also has adopted a rule pursuant to which all insured depository institutions were required to prepay their estimated assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. This pre-payment was due on December 30, 2009. The assessment rate for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for 2010 was based on each institution’s total base assessment rate for the third quarter of 2009, modified to assume that the assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009 had been in effect for the entire third quarter, and the assessment rate for 2011 and 2012 was equal to the modified third quarter assessment rate plus an additional three basis points. In addition, each institution’s base assessment rate for each period was calculated using its thir d quarter assessment base, adjusted quarterly for an estimated 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. We are required to record the pre-payment as a prepaid expense, which will be amortized to expense over three years. Our prepayment amount was $2.4 million. Our Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance expense totaled $769,000, $1.0 million and $58,000, respectively, in 2010, 2009 and 2008. The increased assessment rates discussed above, together with any further increases in assessment rates or additional special assessments, will negatively impact future earnings. The United States economy remains weak and unemployment levels are high. The prolonged economic downturn will adversely affect our business and financial results. The United States experienced a severe economic recession in 2008 and 2009. While economic growth has resumed recently, the rate of growth has been slow and unemployment remains at very high levels and is not expected to improve in the near future. Loan portfolio quality has deteriorated at many financial institutions reflecting, in part, the weak U.S. economy and high unemployment. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. The continuing real estate downturn also has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing and in increased delinquencies in construction, residential and commercial mortgage loans. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have declined substantially, and it is significantly more difficult for banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. Continued negative developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the market for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Moreover, continued declines in the stock market in general, or stock values of financial institutions and their holding companies specifically, could adversely affect our stock performance. 46 Table of Contents Financial reform legislation recently enacted by Congress will, among other things, eliminate the Office of Thrift Supervision, tighten capital standards, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. Congress recently enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to supervise and regulate all savings and loan holding companies like Oneida Financial Corp., in addition to bank holding companies which it currently regulates. As a result, the Federal Reserve Board’s current regulations applicable to bank holding companies, including holding company capital requirements, will apply to savings and loan holding companies if their assets are more than $500 million. Thes e capital requirements are substantially similar to the capital requirements currently applicable to Oneida Savings Bank. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the Federal Reserve Board to set minimum capital levels for bank holding companies that are as stringent as those required for the insured depository subsidiaries, and the components of Tier 1 capital would be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. The legislation also establishes a floor for capital of insured depository institutions that cannot be lower than the standards in effect today, and directs the federal banking regulators to implement new leverage and capital requirements within 18 months that take into account off-balance sheet activities and other risks, including risks relating to securitized products and derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions such as Oneida Savings Bank, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets will be examined by their applicable bank regulators. The new legislation also weakens the federal preemption available for national ban ks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce applicable federal consumer protection laws. The legislation also broadens the base for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance assessments. Assessments will now be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2008, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. Lastly, the Dodd-Frank Act will increase stockholder influence over boards of directors by requiring companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and by authorizing the Securities and Exchange Commission t o promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. It is difficult to predict at this time what effect the new legislation and implementing regulations will have on community banks with regard to the lending and credit practices of such banks. Moreover, many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will not take effect for at least a year, and the legislation requires various federal agencies to promulgate numerous and extensive implementing regulations over the next several years. Although the substance and scope of these regulations cannot be determined at 47 Table of Contents this time, it is expected that the legislation and implementing regulations, particularly those relating to the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, will increase our operating and compliance costs. Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and our income. In response to the financial crisis of 2008 and early 2009, Congress has taken actions that are intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has taken actions to increase insurance coverage on deposit accounts. In addition, there have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount delinquent borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit an institution’s ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, or changes in policy, affecting lending and funding practices and liquidity standards. Moreover, bank regulatory agencies have been active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, and have issued many formal enforcement orders requiring capital ratios in excess of regulatory requirements. Bank regulatory agencies, such as the New York State Banking Department, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Office of Thrift Supervision, govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors, and not for the protection or benefit of potential investors. In addition, new laws and regulations may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operati ons. New laws and regulations may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, the fees we can charge, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further, legislative proposals limiting our rights as a creditor could result in credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the New York State Banking Department and the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding companies may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, new regulations or legislati on or additional deposit insurance premiums could have a material impact on our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws and applicable regulations are subject to frequent change. Any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. If our investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York becomes impaired, our earnings and stockholders’ equity could decrease. We are required to own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank’s advance program. The aggregate carrying value of our Federal Home Loan Bank common stock as of December 31, 2010 was $2.1 million. Federal Home Loan Bank common stock is not a marketable security and can only be redeemed by the Federal Home Loan Bank. 48 Table of Contents Federal Home Loan Banks may be subject to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could materially lower their regulatory capital. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, we believe that there is a risk that our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank of New York common stock could be deemed impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause our earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the amount of the impairment charge. System failure or breaches of our information systems could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems, including risk to data integrity. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1.B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 49 Table of Contents 