ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our nonperforming assets remain elevated and we may be required to make increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future. Further, our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. For 2010, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $6.2 million compared to a provision for loan losses of $9.1 million in 2009. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $4.4 million in 2010 compared to net loan charge-offs of $4.7 million in 2009. Our non-performing assets decreased to $29.8 million or 2.72% of total assets and 20.2% of Tier I capital, at December 31, 2010 from $33.7 million, or 2.87% of total assets or 33.9% of Tier 1 capital, at December 31, 2009. Our continued level of nonperforming assets was primarily due to the weakened economy and the soft real estate market. If the economy and/or the real estate market continues to weaken, we may be required to add further reserves to our allowance for loan losses for these assets as the value of the collateral may be insufficient to pay any remaining net loan balance, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume of and trends in our nonperforming, delinquent and classified loans. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. Finally, we also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, anticipated duration of the current business cycle, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are, by nature, more subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers’ abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges, the effect of the current and future economic conditions on collateral values and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates. Federal regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Current economic conditions could result in increases in our level of nonperforming loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which would lead to lower revenue, higher loan losses and lower earnings. Our business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States and in our local market area. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, unemployment levels, real estate values, monetary supply, consumer confidence and spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the economy in the United States generally and in our market area in particular. The national economy has recently experienced a recession, with rising unemployment levels, declines in real estate values and an erosion in consumer confidence. Dramatic declines in the U.S. housing market over the past few years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, have negatively affected the performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by many financial institutions. Our local econom y has mirrored the overall economy. A prolonged or more severe economic downturn, continued elevated levels of unemployment, further declines in the values of real estate, or other events that affect household and/or corporate incomes could impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans in accordance with their terms. Nearly all of our loans are secured by real estate or made to businesses in the counties in which we have offices in Pennsylvania and New Jersey. As a result of this concentration, a prolonged or more severe downturn in the local economy, especially in southern New Jersey, which has been more severely affected by the recession due to its dependence on the gaming and tourism industries, could result in significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would negatively impact our interest income and result in higher provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our earnings. The economic downturn could also result in reduced demand for credit, which would hurt our revenues. Our emphasis on commercial lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2010, $329.9 million, or 50.4%, of our loan portfolio consisted of multi-family and commercial real estate and commercial business loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the business and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of our multi-family and commercial real estate and land borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Further, unlike one- to four-family real estate loans or multi-family and commercial real estate loans, 16 Table of Contents commercial business loans may be secured by collateral other than real estate the value of which may be more difficult to appraise and may be more susceptible to fluctuation in value. The unseasoned nature of our commercial loan portfolio may result in changes in estimating collectability, which may lead to additional provisions or charge-offs, which could hurt our profits. Our multi-family and commercial real estate and commercial business portfolio has increased $220.3 million, or 201%, from $109.6 million at December 31, 2007 to $329.9 million at December 31, 2010. A large portion of our commercial loan portfolio is unseasoned and does not provide us with a significant payment history pattern from which to judge future collectability, especially in this period of continued declining and unfavorable economic conditions. As a result, it may be difficult to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience, which could adversely affect our future performance. Further, these types of loans generally have larger balances and involve a greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectability of our commercial loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred historically with our residential mortgage loan or consumer loan portfolios. Our residential mortgage loans and home equity loans expose us to a risk of loss due to declining real estate values. At December 31, 2010, $238.6 million, or 36.4%, of our loan portfolio consisted of one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, and $49.7 million, or 7.6%, of our loan portfolio consisted of home equity loans and home equity lines of credit. Recent declines in the housing market have resulted in declines in real estate values in our market areas. These declines in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage and home equity loans to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss if we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral. Because of our locations in southern New Jersey, many of the properties securing our residential mortgages are second homes or rental properties. At December 31, 2010, 18.4% of our one- to four-family mortgage loans were secured by second homes and 7.2% were secured by rental properties. These loans generally are considered to be more risky than loans secured by the borrower’s permanent residence, since the borrower is typically more dependent on rental income to meet debt service requirements, in the case of rental property, and when in financial difficulty is more likely to make payments on the loan secured by the borrower’s primary residence before a vacation home. Our construction loan portfolio may expose us to increased credit risk. At December 31, 2010, our construction portfolio was $31.2 million, of which $24.8 million represented loans to finance the construction of condominiums, apartment buildings and residential developments. As a result of the deterioration in local economic conditions in 2008 and 2009, loans secured by residential real estate developments experienced a slowdown in sales activity. In general, construction projects provide for an interest reserve that is utilized to pay the interest until a period of time until the project is expected to produce positive cash flows. To the extent such economic conditions continue, construction loan borrowers could fully utilize their interest reserve before the project is able to generate cash flows. If a borrower has insufficient liquidity to pay interest on such projects, the loan could become impaired and require an increase in the allowance for loan losse s which would adversely impact our results of operations. This situation is exacerbated as all construction loans either matured in 2010 or will mature in 2011. Our ability to work with a borrower to modify or restructure their existing loan to avoid loss lessens as the loan approaches its maturity date. Turmoil in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Beginning in 2008, United States and global financial markets experienced severe disruption and volatility, and general economic conditions declined significantly. Adverse developments in credit quality, asset values and revenue opportunities throughout the financial services industry, as well as general uncertainty regarding the economic, industry and regulatory environment, had a negative impact on the industry. The United States and the governments of other countries have taken steps to try to stabilize the financial system, including investing in financial institutions, and have implemented programs intended to improve general economic conditions. The U.S. Department of the Treasury created the Capital Purchase Program under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, pursuant to which the Treasury Department provided additional capital to participating financial institutions through the purchase of preferred stock or other securities. Other measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; regulatory action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. Notwithstanding the actions of the United States and other governments, these efforts may not be successful in restoring industry, economic or market conditions to their previous levels and may not result in adverse unintended consequences. Factors that could continue to pressure financial services companies, including Fox Chase Bancorp, are numerous and include (1) worsening credit quality, leading am ong other things to increases in loan losses and reserves, (2) continued or worsening disruption and volatility in financial markets, leading among other things to continuing reductions in asset values, (3) capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally, (4) limitations resulting from or 17 Table of Contents imposed in connection with governmental actions intended to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system, or (5) recessionary conditions that are deeper or last longer than currently anticipated. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investments less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our net interest spread is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates—up or down—could adversely affect our net interest spread and, as a result, our net interest income and net interest margin. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yie ld we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. This contraction could be more severe following a prolonged period of lower interest rates, as a larger proportion of our fixed-rate residential loan portfolio and fixed-rate residential related mortgage backed securities will have been originated at those lower rates and borrowers may be more reluctant to refinance or unable to sell their homes in a higher interest rate environment. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. Changes in int erest rates also can affect: (1) our ability to originate loans; (2) the value of our interest-earning assets, and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; (3) our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and (4) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Our business strategy includes the continuation of moderate growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. Our assets increased $282.6 million, or 34.7%, from $812.9 million at December 31, 2007, to $1.09 billion at December 31, 2010, primarily due to increases in investment securities and multi-family and commercial real estate loans funded by growth in deposits and proceeds from our stock offering in June 2010. Over the long term, we expect to continue to experience growth in assets, deposits and the scale of our operations. However, achieving our growth targets requires us to successfully execute our business strategies, which include continuing to diversify our loan portfolio with more commercial lending thereby recognizing the value of our investments in personnel in that area. Our ability to successfully grow will also depend on the continued availability of loan opportunities that meet our more stringent underwriting standards. While we believe we have the resources and inter nal systems in place to successfully achieve and manage our future growth, growth opportunities may not be available and we may not be able to successfully manage our growth. If we do not manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to achieve our business plan, and our business and prospects could be harmed. If we conclude that the decline in value of any of our investment securities is other than temporary, we are required to write down the value of that security. Companies are required to record other-than-temporary impairment if they have the intent to sell, or will more likely than not be required to sell, an impaired debt security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. In addition, companies are required to record other-than-temporary impairment for the amount of credit losses, regardless of the intent or requirement to sell. We evaluate investments that have a fair value less than book value for other-than-temporary impairment on a quarterly basis. We have one private label residential mortgage-related security, which we recorded a $605,000 other-than-temporary impairment charge as of June 30, 2009, $157,000 of which was recognized on the statement of operations and $448,000 of which was recognized in the statements of condition in other comprehensive income (before taxes). This security had an amortized cost of $559,000, a fair value o f $166,000 with a remaining net unrealized loss, including other-than-temporary impairment in accumulated other comprehensive income of $393,000 at December 31, 2010. Additionally, at December 31, 2010, we had four private label commercial mortgage-related securities with a book value of $11.4 million and a fair market value of $11.8 million. Changes in the expected cash flows, credit enhancement levels or credit ratings of these securities and/or prolonged price declines may result in our concluding in future periods that the impairment of these securities is other-than temporary, which would require a charge to earnings to write down the value of these securities. Any charges for other-than-temporary impairment would not impact cash flows, tangible capital or liquidity. 18 Table of Contents Recently enacted regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). The Dodd-Frank Act restructures the regulation of depository institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Office of Thrift Supervision will be merged into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which regulates national banks. Savings and loan holding companies will be regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new federal agency to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that is now performed by the depository institution regulators. The federal preemption of state laws currently accorded federally chartered depository institutions, such as the Bank, will be reduced as well, and State Attorneys General will have greater authority to bring a suit ag ainst a federally chartered institution for violations of certain state and federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act also will impose consolidated capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies effective in five years. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008-2009. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. Increased and/or special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. Current economic conditions have caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, was $536,000. In lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation required all institutions to prepay their a ssessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, which for us totaled $5.0 million. Additional increases in the base assessment rate or additional special assessments would negatively impact our earnings. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, our primary federal regulator, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of Fox Chase Bank rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impa ct on our operations. As a member bank, we own stock in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh, which is experiencing financial difficulties. Our agreement with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh requires us to purchase capital stock in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh commensurate with the amount of our advances and unused borrowing capacity. This stock is carried at cost and was $9.9 million at December 31, 2010. If the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh is unable to meet minimum regulatory capital requirements or is required to aid the remaining Federal Home Loan Banks, our holding of Federal Home Loan Bank stock may be determined to be other than temporarily impaired and may require a charge to our earnings, which could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, in December 2008, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh announced that, as a result of deterioration in earnings, it did not intend to pay a dividend on its common stock for the foreseeable future, which included not paying a dividend for all of 2009 and 2010. Moreover, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh indicated that it would not redeem any common stock associated with member advance repayments and that it may increase its individual member stock investment requirements. Strong competition within our market areas could reduce our profits. We face intense competition in making loans, attracting deposits and attracting and retaining key employees. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. It has also made it more difficult and costly to attract and hire employees with the level of expertise we require to implement our strategic plan. Additional compensation expense increases noninterest expense, reducing net income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. As of June 30, 2010, the most recent date for which information is available, we held less than 2% of the deposits in each county in which our offices are located. Some of the institutions with which we c ompete have substantially 19 Table of Contents greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market areas. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 