Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to a number of risks. In addition to the various risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report, the following risk factors should be considered. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that we currently believe to be less significant may also adversely affect us. Risk Factors Relating to Our Industry and Our Business The weakness in the global economy, the global credit markets and the financial services industry over the past several years has severely and negatively affected demand for automobiles and automobile parts and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Demand for and pricing of our products are subject to economic conditions and other factors present in the various domestic and international markets where our products are sold. The level of demand for our products depends primarily upon the level of consumer demand for new vehicles that are manufactured with our products. The level of new vehicle purchases is cyclical, affected by such factors as general economic conditions, interest rates, consumer confidence, consumer preferences, patterns of consumer spending, fuel costs and the automobile replacement cycle. The global economic crisis that prevailed throughout 2008 and 2009 resulted in delayed and reduced purchases of durable consumer goods, such as automobiles. Although the global economic climate improved during 2010 and 2011, the global economy has not recovered to levels previously experienced and remains fragile. If the global economy were to take another significant downturn, depending upon its length, duration and severity, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow would again be materially adversely affected. In addition, there has been significant economic instability in several countries in the European Union where we conduct business. Europe accounted for approximately 35% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. The economic instability caused by the sovereign debt crisis in countries in which we operate in Europe could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as well as negatively impact our access to, and cost of, capital. We have invested substantial resources in markets where we expect growth and we may be unable to timely alter our strategies should such expectations not be realized. Our future growth is dependent on our making the right investments at the right time to support product development and manufacturing capacity in areas where we can support our customer base. We have identified China and Brazil as key markets likely to experience substantial growth, and accordingly have made and expect to continue to make substantial investments, both directly and through participation in various partnerships and joint ventures to support anticipated growth in those regions. If we are unable to deepen existing and develop additional customer relationships in these regions, we may not only fail to realize expected rates of return on our existing investments, but we may incur losses on such investments and be unable to timely redeploy the invested capital to take advantage of other markets, potentially resulting in lost market share to our competitors. Our results will also suffer if these regions do not grow as quickly as we anticipate. Our business in China is subject to aggressive competition and is sensitive to economic and market conditions. Maintaining a strong position in the Chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. The automotive supply market in China is highly competitive, with competition from many of the largest global manufacturers and numerous smaller domestic manufacturers. As the size of the Chinese market continues to increase, we anticipate that additional competitors, both international and domestic, will seek to enter the Chinese market and that existing market participants will act aggressively to increase their market share. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and our inability to gain or hold market share. In addition, our business in China is sensitive to economic and market conditions that drive sales volume in China. If we are unable to maintain our position in the Chinese market or if vehicle sales in China decrease or do not continue to increase, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are subject to risks related to our international operations. Our international operations include manufacturing facilities in Europe, China, South Korea, and Brazil, and we sell our products in each of these areas. For the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 65% of our revenues were derived from operations outside the United States. International operations are subject to various risks that could have a material adverse effect on those operations and our business as a whole, including: • exposure to local economic conditions; • exposure to local political conditions, including the risk of seizure of assets by a foreign government; • exposure to local social unrest, including any resultant acts of war, terrorism or similar events; • exposure to local public health issues and the resultant impact on economic and political conditions; • exposure to local tax requirements and obligations; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • hyperinflation in certain foreign countries; • the risk of government-sponsored competition; • controls on the repatriation of cash, including the imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; and • export and import restrictions. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations could cause a decline in our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We generate a significant portion of our revenues and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We are subject to risk if the foreign currency in which our costs are paid appreciates against the currency in which we generate revenues because the appreciation effectively increases our cost in that country. The financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of some of our operating entities are reported in foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable foreign exchange rate for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. As a result, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies generally will have a negative impact on our reported sales and profits while depreciation of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies will generally have a positive effect on reported revenues and profits. A significant amount of our revenues are denominated in Euros. Economic instability in the European Union and the related decline in the value of the Euro could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we have increased exposure to fluctuations in the Euro due to the exchange of U.S. dollar for Euro denominated debt as a result of our retirement of our outstanding first lien term loan (see note 6 to our consolidated financial statements) and the issuance of our senior secured notes in August 2010. As of December 31, 2011, we estimated that a hypothetical change of 100 basis points in the Euro to the U.S. dollar exchange rate would have impacted our stockholders’ equity by approximately $2.9 million. We may use a combination of natural hedging techniques and financial derivatives to protect against certain foreign currency exchange rate risks. Such hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from foreign currency variations. Gains or losses associated with hedging activities also may negatively impact operating results. Deterioration in the United States and world economies could exacerbate the difficulties experienced by our customers and suppliers in obtaining financing, which, in turn, could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Lending institutions have suffered and may continue to suffer losses due to their lending and other financial relationships, especially because of the general weakening of the global economy and the increased financial 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS instability of many borrowers. Longer-term disruptions in the credit markets could further adversely affect our customers by making it increasingly difficult for them to obtain financing for their businesses and for their customers to obtain financing for automobile purchases. Our OEM customers typically require significant financing for their respective businesses. In addition, our OEM customers typically have related finance companies that provide financing to their dealers and customers. These finance companies have historically been active participants in the securitization markets, which have experienced severe disruptions during the global economic crisis. Our suppliers, as well as the other suppliers to our customers, may face similar difficulties in obtaining financing for their businesses. If capital is not available to our customers and suppliers, or if its cost is prohibitively high, their businesses would be negatively impacted, which could result in their restructuring or even reorganization/liquidation under applicable bankruptcy laws. Any such negative impact, in turn, could materially and negatively affect our company either through the loss of revenues to any of our customers so affected, or due to our inability to meet our commitments without excess expense resulting from disruptions in supply caused by the suppliers so affected. Financial difficulties experienced by any major customer could have a material adverse impact on us if such customer were unable to pay for the products we provide or we experienced a loss of, or material reduction in, business from such customer. As a result of such difficulties, we could experience lost revenues, significant write-offs of accounts receivable, significant impairment charges or additional restructurings beyond the steps we have taken to date. We sponsor a defined benefit pension plan that is underfunded and will require substantial cash payments. Additionally, if the performance of the assets in our pension plan does not meet our expectations, or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, our required contributions may be higher than we expect. We sponsor a defined benefit pension plan that is underfunded. Although the Predecessor Company ceased benefit accruals under the plan, we anticipate that the plan may require substantial cash payments in order to meet our funding obligations. These cash contributions may be significant in future periods and could adversely impact our cash flow. Additionally, our earnings may be impacted by the amount of income or expense recorded for our pension plan. Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States require that income or expense for pension plans be calculated at the annual measurement date using actuarial assumptions and calculations. These calculations reflect certain assumptions, the most significant of which relate to the capital markets, interest rates and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can change these assumptions. These assumptions, along with the actual value of assets at the measurement date, will impact the calculation of pension expense for the year. Although GAAP expense and pension contributions are not directly related, the key economic indicators that affect GAAP expense also affect the amount of cash that we would contribute to our pension plan. As a result of current economic instability, the investment portfolio of the pension plan has experienced volatility. Because the values of these pension plan assets have fluctuated and will fluctuate in response to changing market conditions, the amount of gains or losses that will be recognized in subsequent periods, the impact on the funded status of the pension plan and the future minimum required contributions, if any, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, but such impact cannot be determined at this time. The automobile industry is highly cyclical and cyclical downturns in our domestic or international business segments negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The volume of automotive production in North America, Europe and the rest of the world has fluctuated, sometimes significantly from year-to-year, and such fluctuations give rise to changes in demand for our products. Because we have significant fixed production costs, relatively modest declines in our customers’ production levels can have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations. The highly cyclical nature of the automotive industry presents a risk that is outside our control and that cannot be accurately predicted. Moreover, a number of factors that we cannot predict can and have impacted cyclicality in the past. Decreases in demand for automobiles generally, or in the demand for our products in particular, could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS Product liability claims could cause us to incur losses and damage our reputation. Many of our products are critical to the structural integrity of a vehicle. As such, we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event of the failure of our products to perform to specifications, or if our products are alleged to result in property damage, bodily injury or death. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall involving those products. We are generally required under our customer contracts to indemnify our customers for product liability claims in respect of our products. In addition, we do not have insurance covering product recalls. Accordingly, we may be materially and adversely impacted by product liability claims. The decreasing number of automotive parts customers could make it more difficult for us to compete favorably. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected because the OEM customer base is consolidating. As a result, we are competing for business from fewer customers. Due to the cost focus of these major customers, we have been, and expect to continue to be, requested to reduce prices as part of our initial business quotations and over the life of contracts we have been awarded. We cannot be certain that we will be able to generate cost savings and operational improvements in the future that are sufficient to offset price reductions requested by customers and to make us profitable and position us to win additional business. The decreasing number of automotive parts suppliers could make it more difficult for us to compete favorably. Consolidation and bankruptcies among automotive parts suppliers are resulting in fewer and larger competitors who benefit from purchasing and distribution economies of scale. If we cannot compete favorably in the future with these larger suppliers, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected due to a reduction of, or inability to increase, revenues. We may have difficulty competing favorably in the highly competitive automotive parts industry. The automotive parts industry is highly competitive. Although the overall number of competitors has decreased due to ongoing industry consolidation, we face significant competition within each of our major product areas, including from new competitors entering the markets that we serve, and OEMs may seek to integrate vertically. The principal competitive factors include price, quality, global presence, service, product performance, design and engineering capabilities, new product innovation and timely delivery. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete favorably in these competitive markets or that increased competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business by reducing our ability to increase or maintain sales and profit margins. A number of our major OEM customers manufacture products which compete with our products. Our OEM customers tend to outsource less when they have idle capacity. We principally compete for new business at the beginning of the development of new models and upon the redesign of existing models by major OEM customers. New model development generally begins three to five years prior to the marketing of such models to the public. Redesign of existing models begins during the life cycle of a platform, usually at least two to three years before the end of the platform’s life cycle. The failure to obtain new business on new models or to retain or increase business on redesigned existing models, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, as a result of the relatively long lead times required for many of our structural components, it may be difficult in the short-term for us to obtain new revenues to replace any unexpected decline in the sale of existing products. The inability for us, our customers and/or our suppliers to obtain and maintain sufficient capital financing, including working capital lines, and credit insurance may adversely affect our, our customers’ and our suppliers’ liquidity and financial condition. Our working capital requirements can vary significantly, depending in part on the level, variability and timing of our customers’ worldwide vehicle production and the payment terms with our customers and suppliers. Our liquidity could also be adversely impacted if our suppliers were to suspend normal trade credit terms and require payment in advance or payment on delivery. If our available cash flows from operations are not 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS sufficient to fund our ongoing cash needs, we would be required to look to our cash balances and availability for borrowings under our credit facilities to satisfy those needs, as well as potential sources of additional capital, which may not be available on satisfactory terms and in adequate amounts, if at all. There can be no assurance that we, our customers and our suppliers will continue to have such ability. This may increase the risk that we cannot produce our products or will have to pay higher prices for our inputs. These higher prices may not be recovered in our selling prices. Our suppliers often seek to obtain credit insurance based on the strength of the financial condition of our subsidiary with the payment obligation, which may be less robust than our consolidated financial condition. If we were to experience liquidity issues, our suppliers may not be able to obtain credit insurance and in turn would likely not be able to offer us payment terms that we have historically received. Our failure to receive such terms from our suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. We operate with negative working capital which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We typically operate with a negative working capital balance; therefore, a significant reduction in sales and the related reduction in accounts receivable could significantly impact our financial condition and ability to obtain additional borrowings. The borrowings available under our revolving credit facility are subject to the calculation of a borrowing base, which is based upon the value of certain of our assets, including accounts receivable, inventory and property, plant and equipment. We may incur material costs related to legal proceedings, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. From time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings, claims or investigations that are incidental to the conduct of our business. Some of these proceedings allege damages against us relating to environmental liabilities, personal injury claims, taxes, employment matters or commercial or contractual disputes. We cannot assure you that the costs, charges and liabilities associated with these matters will not be material, or that those costs, charges and liabilities will not exceed any amounts reserved for them in our consolidated financial statements. In future periods, we could be subject to cash costs or non-cash charges to earnings if any of these matters are resolved unfavorably to us. We are dependent on large customers for current and future revenues. The loss of any of these customers or the loss of market share by these customers could have a material adverse impact on us. We depend on major vehicle manufacturers for our revenues. For example, during 2011, Ford, Volkswagen, and Hyundai/Kia accounted for 17%, 17%, and 14% of our revenues, respectively. The loss of all or a substantial portion of our sales to any of our large-volume customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by reducing cash flows and by limiting our ability to spread our fixed costs over a larger revenue base. We may make fewer sales to these customers for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to: • loss of awarded business; • reduced or delayed customer requirements; • OEMs’ insourcing business they have traditionally outsourced to us; • strikes or other work stoppages affecting production by our customers; or • reduced demand for our customers’ products. See “— Deterioration in the United States and world economies could exacerbate the difficulties experienced by our customers and suppliers in obtaining financing, which, in turn, could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.” 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may be unable to realize revenues represented by our awarded business, which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The realization of future revenues from awarded business is inherently subject to a number of important risks and uncertainties, including the number of vehicles that our customers will actually produce, the timing of that production and the mix of options that our customers may choose. In addition to not having a commitment from our customers regarding the minimum number of products they must purchase from us if we obtain awarded business, typically the terms and conditions of the agreements with our customers provide that they have the contractual right to unilaterally terminate our contracts with them with no notice or limited notice. If such contracts are terminated by our customers, our ability to obtain compensation from our customers for such termination is generally limited to the direct out-of-pocket costs that we incurred for raw materials and work-in-progress and in certain instances undepreciated capital expenditures. We base a substantial part of our planning on the anticipated lifetime revenues of particular products. We calculate the lifetime revenues of a product by multiplying our expected price for a product by forecasted production volume during the length of time we expect the related vehicle to be in production. We use a third-party forecasting service, IHS, to provide long-term forecasts which allows us to determine how long a vehicle is expected to be in production. Lifetime revenues associated with a particular platform are not guaranteed and are not equivalent to backlog. If we over-estimate the production units or if a customer reduces its level of anticipated purchases of a particular platform as a result of reduced demand, our actual revenues for that platform may be substantially less than the lifetime revenues we had anticipated for that platform. Typically, it takes two to five years from the time a manufacturer awards a program until the program is launched and production begins. In many cases, we must commit substantial resources in preparation for production under awarded customer business well in advance of the customer’s production start date. We cannot assure you that our results of operations will not be materially adversely impacted in the future if we are unable to recover these types of pre-production costs related to our customers’ cancellation of awarded business. Our joint venture partners may have interests that are not consistent with those of the joint venture, thereby resulting in our joint venture failing to achieve the results we desire. We have three joint ventures in China. At two of the joint ventures, our joint venture partner is also affiliated with the largest customer of the joint venture. As such, these partners may negotiate on behalf of customers of the joint venture for sales terms that are not in the best interest of the joint venture. More specifically, when acting on behalf of a customer, our joint venture partners effectively receive 100% of the benefits of revenues terms, but when acting as a joint venture partner we must share with them any benefits received by the joint venture. This may create a misalignment of incentives between us and our joint venture partners that could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our ability to recognize revenues from non-automotive business is subject to several risks, any one of which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows As we seek to expand into markets beyond vehicle structural components and assemblies, we expect to diversify our product revenues by leveraging our development, engineering and manufacturing capabilities in order to source necessary parts and components for other industries. Such diversification requires investments and resources that may not be available as needed. Even if we sign contracts in new non-automotive markets, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in leveraging our capabilities into these new markets and thus in meeting the needs of these new customers and competing favorably in these new markets. If these customers experience reduced demand for their products or financial difficulties, our future prospects will be negatively affected as well. 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS Disruptions in the automotive supply chain could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The automotive supply chain is subject to disruptions because we, along with our customers and suppliers, attempt to maintain low inventory levels. In addition, our plants are typically located in proximity to our customers. Disruptions could be caused by a multitude of potential problems, such as closures of one of our or our suppliers’ plants or critical manufacturing lines due to strikes, mechanical breakdowns, electrical outages, fires, explosions or political upheaval, as well as logistical complications due to weather, earthquakes, or other natural or nuclear disasters, mechanical failures, delayed customs processing and more. Additionally, if we are the cause for a customer being forced to halt production, the customer may seek to recoup all of its losses and expenses from us. Any disruptions affecting us or caused by us could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The volatility of steel prices may adversely affect our results of operations. We utilize steel and various purchased steel products in virtually all of our products. We refer to the “net steel impact” as the combination of the change in steel prices that are reflected in customer pricing, the change in the cost to procure steel from the mills, and the change in our recovery of scrap steel, which we refer to as offal. While we strive to achieve a neutral net steel impact over time, we are not always successful in achieving that goal. Changes in steel prices may affect our liquidity because of the time difference between our payment for our steel and our collection of cash from our customers. We tend to pay for replacement materials, which are more expensive when steel prices are rising, over a much shorter period. As a result, rising steel prices may cause us to draw greater than anticipated amounts from our credit lines to cover the cash flow cycle from our steel purchases to cash collection for related accounts receivable. This cash requirement for working capital is higher in periods when we are increasing our inventory quantities. A by-product of our production process is the generation of offal. We typically sell offal in secondary markets, which are similar to the steel markets. We generally share our recoveries from sales of offal with our customers either through scrap sharing agreements, in cases where we are on resale programs, or in the product pricing that is negotiated regarding increases and decreases in the steel price in cases where we purchase steel directly from the mills. In either situation, we may be impacted by the fluctuation in scrap steel prices, either positive or negative, in relation to our various customer agreements. Since scrap steel prices generally increase and decrease as steel prices increase and decrease, our sale of offal may mitigate the severity of steel price increases and limit the benefits we achieve through steel price declines. Any dislocation in offal and steel prices could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The seasonality we experience in our business may negatively impact our quarterly results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Our business is seasonal. Our customers in Europe typically shut down vehicle production during portions of July or August and during one week in our fourth quarter. Our North American customers typically shut down vehicle production for approximately two weeks during July and for one week during December. Such seasonality may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity during the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. We may incur material costs related to plant closings, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we must close additional manufacturing locations because of loss of business or consolidation of manufacturing facilities, the employee severance, asset retirement and other costs, including reimbursement costs relating to public subsidies, to close these facilities may be significant. In certain locations that are subject to leases, we may continue to incur material costs consistent with the initial lease terms. We continually attempt to align production capacity with demand; therefore, we cannot assure you that additional plants will not have to be closed. Historically, we have incurred significant costs related to the closure of our facilities and can provide no assurance that such costs will not be material in the future. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS The hourly workforce in the automotive industry is highly unionized and our business could be adversely affected by labor disruptions. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 8,600 employees, of whom approximately 5,500 were covered under collective bargaining agreements that expire at various times. In addition, we have specific exposure to labor strikes in our International operations related primarily to the economic instability in several countries in the European Union. If major work disruptions involving our employees were to occur, our business could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including a loss of revenues, increased costs and reduced profitability. We cannot assure you that we will not experience a material labor disruption at one or more of our facilities in the future in the course of renegotiation of our labor arrangements or otherwise. We are subject to environmental requirements and risks as a result of which we may incur significant costs, liabilities and obligations. We are subject to a variety of environmental and pollution control laws, regulations and permits that govern, among other things, soil, surface water and groundwater contamination; the generation, storage, handling, use, disposal and transportation of hazardous materials; the emission and discharge of materials, including greenhouse gases, or GHGs, into the environment; and health and safety. If we fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators or become subject to litigation. Environmental and pollution control laws, regulations and permits, and the enforcement thereof, change frequently, have tended to become more stringent over time and may necessitate substantial capital expenditures or operating costs. Under certain environmental requirements, we could be responsible for costs relating to any contamination at our, or a predecessor entity’s, current or former owned or operated properties or third-party waste-disposal sites, even if we were not at fault. Soil and groundwater contamination is being addressed at certain of these locations. In addition to potentially significant investigation and cleanup costs, contamination can give rise to third-party claims for fines or penalties, natural resource damages, personal injury or property damage. We cannot assure you that our costs, liabilities and obligations relating to environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any acquisitions or divestitures we make could disrupt our business and materially harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may, from time to time, consider certain acquisitions or divestitures. Acquisitions and divestitures involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired businesses, the diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns, the assumption of unknown liabilities, undisclosed risks impacting the target and potential adverse effects on existing business relationships with current customers and suppliers. In addition, any acquisitions or divestitures could impact our financial position or create dilution for our stockholders. We cannot assure you that any acquisitions or divestitures will perform as planned or prove to be beneficial to our operations and cash flow or that we will be able to successfully integrate any acquisitions that we undertake. Any such failure could seriously harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The value of our deferred tax assets could become impaired, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $16 million in net deferred income tax assets. These deferred tax assets include net operating loss carryforwards that can be used to offset taxable income in future periods and reduce income taxes payable in those future periods. We periodically determine the probability of the realization of deferred tax assets, using significant judgments and estimates with respect to, among other things, historical operating results, expectations of future earnings and tax planning strategies. If we determine in the future that there is not sufficient positive evidence to support the valuation of these assets, due to the factors described above or other factors, we may be required to further adjust the valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets. Such a reduction could result in material non-cash expenses in the period in which the valuation allowance is adjusted and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited and delayed. As of December 31, 2011, we had U.S. net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $190 million. Certain provisions of the United States tax code could limit our annual utilization of the net operating loss carryforwards. There can be no assurance that we will be able to utilize all of our net operating loss carryforwards and any subsequent net operating loss carryforwards in the future. There is a full valuation allowance recorded against the deferred tax asset benefit of this carryforward. In addition, adverse changes in the underlying profitability and financial outlook of our operations in several foreign jurisdictions could lead to changes in our valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and other tax accruals that could adversely affect our financial results. Further, as a result of our IPO, we may have an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code if, under certain circumstances, our existing stockholders were to sell within a specified period a sufficient amount of our common stock that they then possess to cause an ownership change. If we do experience an ownership change, we may be further limited, pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, in using our then-current net operating losses to offset taxable income for taxable periods (or portions thereof) beginning after such ownership change. Consequently, in the future we may be required to pay increased cash income taxes because of the Section 382 limitations on our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards. We have a material amount of goodwill, which, if it becomes impaired, would result in a reduction in our net income and equity. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired. GAAP requires that goodwill be periodically evaluated for impairment based on the fair value of the reporting unit. A significant percentage of our total assets represent goodwill primarily associated with the purchase of our assets from the Predecessor Company in 2007. Declines in our profitability or the value of comparable companies may impact the fair value of our reporting units, which could result in a write-down of goodwill and a reduction in net income. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $64 million of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet that could be subject to impairment. In addition, if we acquire new businesses in the future, we may recognize additional goodwill, which could be significant. We could also be required to recognize additional impairments in the future and such an impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations in the period of recognition. We may face risks relating to climate change that could have an adverse impact on our business. Greenhouse gas emissions have increasingly become the subject of substantial international, national, regional, state and local attention. GHG emission regulations have been promulgated in certain of the jurisdictions in which we operate, and additional GHG requirements are in various stages of development. For example, the United States Congress has considered legislation that would establish a nationwide limit on GHGs. In addition, the EPA has issued regulations limiting GHG emissions from mobile and stationary sources pursuant to the federal Clean Air Act. When effective, such measures could require us to modify existing or obtain new permits, implement additional pollution control technology, curtail operations or increase our operating costs. In addition, our OEM customers may seek price reductions from us to account for their increased costs resulting from GHG regulations. Further, growing pressure to reduce GHG emissions from mobile sources could reduce automobile sales, thereby reducing demand for our products and ultimately our revenues. Thus, any additional regulation of GHG emissions, including through a cap-and-trade system, technology mandate, emissions tax, reporting requirement or other program, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, reputation, product demand and liquidity. 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risk Factors Relating to Our Indebtedness We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial health and our ability to fund our operations, to obtain financing in the future and to react to changes in our business, and which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2011, our total debt, including capital lease obligations, was $583.5 million. That indebtedness could limit our ability to satisfy our obligations, limit our ability to operate our businesses and impair our competitive position. For example, it could: • adversely affect our stock price; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our financing documents; • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and general industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of our borrowings are, and will continue to be, at variable rates of interest; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; • place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt; • limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing due to applicable financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements; and • increase our cost of borrowing. The borrowings available under our revolving credit facility are subject to the calculation of a borrowing base, which is based upon the value of certain of our assets, including accounts receivable, inventory and property, plant and equipment. The administrative agent for this facility causes a third party to perform an appraisal of the assets included in the calculation of the borrowing base either on an annual basis or, if our availability under the facility is less than $22.5 million during any twelve month period, as frequently as on a semi-annual basis. In addition, if certain material defaults under the facility have occurred and are continuing, the administrative agent has the right to perform any such appraisal as often as it deems necessary in its sole discretion. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt or we may not be able to refinance our debt on commercially reasonable terms. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance, extend the maturity or otherwise amend the terms of our existing indebtedness, or whether any refinancing, extension or amendment will be on commercially reasonable terms. The indebtedness issued in any refinancing of our existing indebtedness could have a significantly higher rate of interest and greater costs than our existing indebtedness. There can be no assurance that the financial terms or covenants of any new credit facility and/or other indebtedness issued to refinance our existing indebtedness will be the same or as favorable as those under our existing indebtedness. Our ability to complete a refinancing of our existing indebtedness prior to their respective maturities is subject to a number of conditions beyond our control. For example, if a disruption in the financial markets were to occur at the time that we intended to refinance this indebtedness, we might be restricted in our ability to access the financial markets. If we were unable to make payments or refinance our debt or obtain new financing under these circumstances, we would have to consider other options, such as: • sales of assets; • sales of equity; or • negotiations with lenders and their respective agents to restructure the applicable debt. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our debt instruments may restrict, or market or business conditions may limit, our ability to employ some of our options. In addition, under our credit agreements, a change in control may lead the lenders to exercise remedies such as acceleration of the loan, termination of their obligations to fund additional advances and collection against the collateral securing such loan; and, in the case of our senior secured notes, a change in control may lead to one or more noteholders exercising their change of control put right. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under such indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations, certain of which have short-term maturities, depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay or refinance our indebtedness, including our senior secured notes (the “notes”) and our revolving credit facility. Our debt instruments restrict our current and future operations. The financing documents governing our indebtedness impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional debt, incur liens, or issue certain equity; • declare or make distributions to our stockholders, repurchase equity or prepay certain debt; • make loans and certain investments; • make certain acquisitions of equity or assets; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • enter into mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations; • consolidate, transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of certain assets; • use the proceeds from sales of assets and stock; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • enter into restrictive agreements; • make capital expenditures; • change our fiscal year; • amend or modify organizational documents; and • engage in businesses other than the businesses we currently conduct. In addition to the restrictions and covenants listed above, certain of our financing documents require us, under certain circumstances, to comply with specified financial maintenance covenants. Any of these restrictions or covenants could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet certain capital needs and could otherwise restrict our corporate activities. Substantially all of our subsidiaries’ assets are pledged as collateral under secured financing arrangements. As of December 31, 2011, we had $548.4 million (net of $8.7 original issue discount in respect of the issuance of the notes) of secured debt. Substantially all of our subsidiaries’ assets are pledged as collateral for our borrowings under our secured financing arrangements. Most of our domestic subsidiaries are either primary obligors or guarantors under a secured financing arrangement. Substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries’ assets are pledged as collateral for these guarantees. If we are unable to repay all secured borrowings when due, whether at maturity or if declared due and payable following a default, the agent or the 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS lenders, as applicable, would have the right to proceed against the collateral pledged to secure the indebtedness and may sell the assets pledged as collateral in order to repay those borrowings, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risk Factors Relating to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile. The price at which our common stock trades may be volatile due to a number of factors, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition or annual or quarterly results of operations; • changes in investors’ and financial analysts’ perception of the business risks and conditions of our business; • changes in, or our failure to meet, earnings estimates and other performance expectations of investors or financial analysts; • unfavorable commentary or downgrades of our stock by equity research analysts; • our success or failure in implementing our growth plans; • changes in the market valuations of companies viewed as similar to us; • changes or proposed changes in governmental regulations affecting our business; • changes in key personnel; • depth of the trading market in our common stock; • failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock; • future sales of our common stock; and • the granting or exercise of employee stock options or other equity awards; In addition, equity markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the securities of newly public companies for a number of reasons, including reasons that may be unrelated to our business or operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may result in a material decline in the market price of our common stock and you may not be able to sell your shares at prices you deem acceptable. In the past, following periods of volatility in the equity markets, securities class action lawsuits have been instituted against public companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial cost and the diversion of management attention. Our average trading volume is not substantial, which adds to the volatility of our stock price. During the period from October 16, 2010 (the day after which our shares began trading in the public markets) through December 31, 2011, the average daily trading volume of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange was approximately 63,000 shares, or roughly 1% of our outstanding common stock. When a relatively small number of shares are traded in a given day, the stock price can be influenced by the purchase or sale of a very small number of shares, leading to volatility in our stock price. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards and, as a result, rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Our stockholders will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to these requirements. Cerberus, through our controlling stockholder, controls a majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards. Under these standards, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including: 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS • the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; • the requirement that we have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; • the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and • the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. We are utilizing these exemptions. As a result, we do not have a majority of independent directors and our nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees do not consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, you do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements. The interests of our controlling stockholder in its capacity as a stockholder may be adverse to the interests of our other stockholders. Our controlling stockholder controls the election of our directors, determines our corporate and management policies and determines, without the consent of our other stockholders, the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. Our controlling stockholder also has sufficient voting power to amend our organizational documents. We cannot assure you that the interests of our controlling stockholder will coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. Additionally, Cerberus, which controls our controlling stockholder, is in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Our certificate of incorporation provides that neither Cerberus or its affiliates, nor members of our board of directors who are not our employees (including any directors who also serve as officers) or their affiliates, have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. Cerberus and our controlling stockholder may also pursue, for their own accounts, acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as our controlling stockholder continues to own a significant amount of our common stock, it will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions, including director and officer appointments, potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. These potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects if attractive corporate opportunities are directed by Cerberus, its affiliates or our directors to themselves or their other affiliates instead of to us. Shares eligible for future sale may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, even if our business is doing well. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could adversely affect the price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue 350,000,000 shares of common stock and as of March 5, 2012 we had 19,683,032 shares of common stock outstanding. Of these outstanding shares, 7,215,166 shares of common stock are freely tradable, without restriction, in the public market unless purchased by our affiliates. The remaining 12,467,866 shares of common stock are “restricted securities,” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), which are freely tradable subject to applicable holding period, volume and other limitations under Rule 144 or Rule 701 of the Securities Act. The holders of the restricted securities have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering its shares or to include its shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. Once we register these shares, they can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance. 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 