D. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this annual report before making a decision to invest in our securities. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business Prior to becoming members of our management team, no member of our management team had direct experience in operating businesses such as ours, which could lead to errors in the management of the business. Prior to becoming our officers and directors, our management team had no direct experience in operating real estate assets and will rely on third party managers to operate the real estate properties. This lack of experience could lead to errors in managing our company, which could harm our results of operations. 6 Current economic conditions and the global tightening of credit may adversely impact the financial condition of our business. Since the onset of the “credit crisis” in mid-2007, the number of banks advancing new loans against Southern European properties has fallen substantially and that decline, together with a tightening of lending policies, has resulted in a significant contraction in the amount of debt available to fund re-financings, acquisitions, developments and other commercial real estate investments. There can be no assurance that the continuation of current economic conditions will not affect our real estate properties. For example, such properties could experience higher levels of vacancy than anticipated, which could adversely impact the financial performance of our company. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from certain rules that are applicable to U.S. companies and you may receive less information about us and our operations than you would receive if such agreements were not waived or we were a U.S. company. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the rules of the Exchange Act prescribing the furnishing and content of proxy statements to shareholders, and our executive officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from certain of the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. In addition, we are not required under the Exchange Act to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act. Therefore you may receive less information about us than you would receive if we were a U.S. company. Because we are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, you may face difficulty protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, and certain of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States in a way that will permit a U.S. court to have jurisdiction over us. We are incorporated as a Cayman Islands exempted company. A Cayman Islands exempted company: · is a company that conducts its business outside the Cayman Islands; · is exempted from certain requirements of the Cayman Companies Law, including the filing of an annual return of its shareholders with the Registrar of Companies; · does not have to make its register of shareholders open to inspection; and · may obtain an undertaking against the imposition of any future taxation. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Articles of Association, the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands, as the same may be supplemented or amended from time to time, which we refer to herein as the Companies Law, and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands, as well as from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: · to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and · to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. 7 There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States. We have been advised by Conyers Dill & Pearman, our counsel as to Cayman Islands law, that (i) they are unaware of any proceedings that have been successfully brought in the Cayman Islands to enforce judgments of the courts in the United States or to impose liabilities based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States; (ii) a final and conclusive judgment in the federal or state courts of the United States under which a sum of money is payable, other than a sum payable in respect of taxes, fines, penalties or similar charges, may be subject to enforcement proceedings as a debt in the courts of the Cayman Islands under the common law doctrine of obligation; and (iii) because it is uncertain whether a Cayman Islands court would determine that a judgment of a U.S. court based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States is in the nature of a penalty, it is uncertain whether such a liability judgment would be enforceable in the Cayman Islands. The Grand Court of the Cayman Islands may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. Because some of our directors and officers reside, and all of our assets are held, outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights against them or to enforce U.S. court judgments against them outside the United States. Some of our directors and officers reside, and all of our assets are held, outside of the United States. As a result, it may be necessary to comply with local law in order to obtain an enforceable judgment against certain of our directors and officers and assets. It may therefore be difficult for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers outside of the United States or to enforce judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under U.S. federal securities laws. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and certain countries would permit effective enforcement of criminal penalties of the U.S. federal securities laws. Our ordinary shares may be subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. Because we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our ordinary shares have a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our ordinary shares may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: · make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; · receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to sale; · provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and · obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our ordinary shares become subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. Our Qualification as a passive foreign investment company, or “PFIC” could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. In general, we will be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (1) at least 75% of our gross income (looking through certain 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the average value of our assets (looking through certain 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) is attributable to assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. Passive income generally includes, without limitation, dividends, interest, rents, royalties, and gains from the disposition of passive assets. If we are determined to be a PFIC for any taxable year (or portion thereof) that is included in the holding period of a U.S. Holder (as defined in the section of this report captioned “Taxation – United States Federal Income Taxation — General”) of our securities, the U.S. Holder may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. Based on the composition and estimated values of our assets and the nature of our income for our 2014 taxable year, we believe that we are a PFIC for such taxable year. We urge U.S. investors to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. For a more detailed explanation of the tax consequences of PFIC classification to U.S. Holders, see the section of this report captioned “Taxation – United States Federal Income Taxation — U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” 8 Risk Factors Relating to Prime’s Business Our current portfolio of real estate properties is geographically concentrated in Italy, and factors affecting the local economy could reduce our revenues. Our current portfolio of real estate properties is geographically concentrated in Italy, specifically in Milan and its immediate surroundings. Therefore, any adverse effect on the local economy could impact our tenants' ability to continue to meet their rental obligations or otherwise adversely affect the average size of our tenant base, which could reduce revenues. Any downturn in the office, commercial and industrial sectors of the real estate industry, or the industries of our tenants, could reduce our revenues and the value of our properties. Our properties are concentrated in the office, commercial, industrial and logistics sectors and our tenants are mainly retail, office and industrial tenants. Any economic downturns in the office, commercial and industrial and logistics sectors may make us susceptible to adverse events to a greater extent than if our properties included greater diversification into other sectors of the real estate industry. Likewise, the concentration of our tenants in certain industries, and the fact that we have a couple of very large tenants (namely, Microelettrica Scientifica, producing braking systems for trucks and trains), could adversely impact us if those industries or significant tenants experience a downturn. This could result in a reduction in our revenues and the value of our properties. Litigation against certain of our subsidiaries may result in liabilities to the combined company, which could adversely affect our results of operation and cash flows. Certain of our subsidiaries have lawsuits pending against them (see page 17 for a description of the lawsuits). Such lawsuits could result in significant legal fees to us and reduce our net income and cash flows. In addition, if any of such pending litigations are resolved against us, we could be required to make significant cash payments, again reducing our cash flows and net income. We face possible adverse changes in tax laws, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. From time to time changes in tax laws or regulations are enacted, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. The shortfall in tax revenues of governments in recent years may lead to an increase in the frequency and size of such changes. If such changes occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our assets or income. These increased tax costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the amount of cash available for payment of dividends. We may change our policies without obtaining the approval of our shareholders. Our operating and financial policies, including our policies with respect to acquisitions of real estate or other companies, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and dividends, are exclusively determined by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, our shareholders do not control these policies. Geopolitical conditions and global economic factors may adversely affect us. Our operating results may be adversely affected by the uncertain geopolitical conditions and global economic factors. Adverse factors affecting economic conditions worldwide have contributed to a general inconsistency in the real estate industry and may continue to adversely impact our business. The uncertainty of the international economic situation, civil unrest, terrorist activity and military actions may continue to adversely affect global economic conditions. Economic and market conditions could deteriorate as a result of any of the foregoing reasons. We may experience material adverse effects upon our business, operating results, and financial condition as a consequence of the above factors or otherwise. Capital markets and economic conditions can materially affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our securities. There are many factors that can affect the value of our securities, including the state of the capital markets and the economy. Demand for office and retail space may decline nationwide due to bankruptcies, downsizing, layoffs and cost cutting. Government action or inaction may adversely affect the state of the capital markets. The cost and availability of credit may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. Our inability or the inability of our tenants to timely refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs may materially affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our securities. 9 Risk Factors Related to Our Real Estate Business Real estate investments’ value and income fluctuate due to various factors. The value of real estate fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the real estate business. These conditions may also adversely impact our revenues and cash flows. The factors that affect the value of our real estate investments include, among other things: · National, regional and local economic conditions; · Competition from other available space; · Local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area; · How well we manage our properties; · The development and/or redevelopment of our properties; · Changes in market rental rates; · The timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals; · Whether we are able to pass all or portions of any increases in operating costs through to tenants; · Changes in real estate taxes and other expenses; · Whether tenants and users such as customers and shoppers consider a property attractive; · The financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; · Availability of financing on acceptable terms or at all; · Fluctuations in interest rates; · Our ability to obtain adequate insurance; · Changes in zoning laws and taxation; · Government regulation; · Consequences of any armed conflict or terrorist attacks; · Potential liability under environmental or other laws or regulations; · Natural disasters; · General competitive factors; and · Climate changes The rents or sales proceeds we receive and the occupancy levels at our properties may decline as a result of adverse changes in any of these factors. If rental revenues, sales proceeds and/or occupancy levels decline, we generally would expect to have less cash available to pay indebtedness and for distribution to shareholders. In addition, some of our major expenses, including mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs generally do not decline when the related rents decline. 10 Real estate is a competitive business. Our business segments operate in a highly competitive environment. We compete with a large number of property owners and developers, some of which may be willing to accept lower returns on their investments than we are. Principal factors of competition include rents charged, sales prices, attractiveness of location, the quality of the property and the breadth and quality of services provided. Our success depends upon, among other factors, trends of the national, regional and local economies, financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants and customers, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, governmental regulation, legislation and population trends. We depend on leasing space to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent from tenants who may not be able to pay. Our financial results depend significantly on leasing space in our properties to tenants on economically favorable terms. In addition, because a majority of our income comes from renting of real property, our income, funds available to pay indebtedness and funds available for distribution to shareholders will decrease if a significant number of our tenants cannot pay their rent or if we are not able to maintain occupancy levels on favorable terms. If a tenant does not pay its rent, we may not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial legal costs. During periods of economic adversity, there may be an increase in the number of tenants that cannot pay their rent and an increase in vacancy rates. Bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants may decrease our revenue, net income and available cash. Our tenants may declare bankruptcy or become insolvent in the future. In the case of our shopping centers, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could cause us to suffer lower revenues and operational difficulties, including leasing the remainder of the property. As a result, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could result in decreased revenue, net income and funds available for the payment of indebtedness or for distribution to shareholders. We may incur costs to comply with environmental laws. Our operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment, including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety. Under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property. The owner or operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may impair our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. Other laws and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. The maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and underground storage tanks are also regulated by federal and state laws. We are also subject to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals. Our predecessor companies may be subject to similar liabilities for activities of those companies in the past. We could incur fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or tanks or related claims arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure to contamination at or from our properties. Each of our properties has been subject to varying degrees of environmental assessment. The environmental assessments did not, as of this date, reveal any environmental condition material to our business. However, identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, discovery of additional sites, human exposure to the contamination or changes in clean-up or compliance requirements could result in significant costs to us. Inflation or deflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although neither inflation nor deflation has materially impacted our operations in the recent past, increased inflation could have a pronounced negative impact on our mortgages and interest rates and general and administrative expenses, as these costs could increase at a rate higher than our rents. Inflation could also have an adverse effect on consumer spending which could impact our tenants’ sales and, in turn, our percentage rents, where applicable. Conversely, deflation could lead to downward pressure on rents and other sources of income. In addition, we own residential properties which are leased to tenants with one- year lease terms. Because these are short- term leases, declines in market rents will impact our residential properties faster than if the leases were for longer terms. 11 Some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance. We currently maintain Directors’ & Officers’ liability insurance with limit of $1 million and all risk property and rental value insurance with limits of €12.88 million (approximately $15.59 million) for five of the subsidiaries’ investment properties, including coverage for terrorist acts, with sub-limits for certain perils such as floods. The property and rental value insurance for the remaining six investment properties are included in the finance lease. The limits of such insurance were determined by each finance lease creditor with payments of such policies included in the finance lease scheduled payments. We will continue to monitor the state of the insurance market and the scope and costs of coverage for acts of terrorism. However, we cannot anticipate what coverage will be available on commercially reasonable terms in future policy years. The debt instruments of our subsidiaries, consisting of mortgage loans secured by the subsidiary’s properties, senior unsecured notes and revolving credit agreements contain customary covenants requiring the applicable subsidiary to maintain insurance. Although we believe that our subsidiaries have adequate insurance coverage for purposes of these agreements, we may not be able to obtain an equivalent amount of coverage at reasonable costs in the future. Further, if lenders insist on greater coverage than we are able to obtain it could adversely affect our ability to finance our properties and expand our portfolio. Compliance or failure to comply with certain governmental regulations could result in substantial costs. Our properties are subject to various governmental regulatory requirements, such as fire and life safety requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. We do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. Any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. We may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. The occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in our cybersecurity, could negatively impact our business by causing a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of our confidential information, and/or damage to our business relationships, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. A cyber incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of our information resources. More specifically, a cyber incident is an intentional attack or an unintentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data, or steal confidential information. As our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our systems, both internal and those we have outsourced. Our three primary risks that could directly result from the occurrence of a cyber incident include operational interruption, damage to our relationship with our tenants, and private data exposure. We have implemented processes, procedures and controls to help mitigate these risks, but these measures, as well as our increased awareness of a risk of a cyber incident, do not guarantee that our financial results will not be negatively impacted by such an incident. Our investments are concentrated in Southern Europe. Economic circumstances affecting these areas could adversely affect our business. A significant portion of our properties are located in Southern Europe and are affected by the economic cycles and risks inherent to those areas. Real estate markets are subject to economic downturns and we cannot predict how economic conditions will impact these markets in either the short or long term. Declines in the economy or declines in real estate markets in these areas could hurt our financial performance and the value of our properties. In addition to the factors affecting the national economic condition generally, the factors affecting economic conditions in these regions include: · Financial performance and productivity of the publishing, advertising, financial, technology, retail, insurance and real estate industries; · Business layoffs or downsizing; 12 · Industry slowdowns; · Relocations of businesses; · Changing demographics; · Increased telecommuting and use of alternative work places; · Infrastructure quality; and · Any oversupply of, or reduced demand for, real estate. It is impossible for us to assess the future effects of trends in the economic and investment climates of the geographic areas in which we concentrate or the real estate markets in these areas. Local, national or global economic downturns would negatively affect our businesses and profitability. Natural disasters could have a concentrated impact on the areas where we operate and could adversely impact our results. Natural disasters could impact our properties. Additionally, natural disasters, including earthquakes, could impact several of our properties in other areas in which we operate. Potentially adverse consequences of “global warming” could similarly have an impact on our properties. As a result, we could become subject to significant losses and/or repair costs that may or may not be fully covered by insurance and to the risk of business interruption. The incurrence of these losses, costs or business interruptions may adversely affect our operating and financial results. We may acquire or sell assets or entities or develop properties. Our failure or inability to consummate these transactions or manage the results of these transactions could adversely affect our operations and financial results. We may acquire or develop properties or acquire other real estate related companies when we believe that an acquisition or development is consistent with our business strategy. We may not, however, succeed in consummating desired acquisitions or in completing developments on time or within budget. In addition, we may face competition in pursuing acquisition or development opportunities that could increase our costs. When we do pursue a project or acquisition, we may not succeed in leasing or selling newly- developed or acquired properties at rents or sales prices sufficient to cover costs of acquisition or development and operations. Difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time- consuming and could divert management’s attention. Acquisitions or developments in new markets or industries where we do not have the same level of market knowledge may result in weaker than anticipated performance. We may also abandon acquisition or development opportunities that we have begun pursuing and consequently fail to recover expenses already incurred, and we may devote management time to a matter not consummated. Furthermore, acquisitions of new properties or companies will expose us to the liabilities of those properties or companies, some of which we may not be aware of at the time of acquisition. Development of our existing properties presents similar risks. We may seek to make, one or more material acquisitions in the future. The announcement of such a material acquisition may result in a rapid and significant decline in the price of our securities. We are continuously looking at material transactions that we believe will maximize shareholder value. However, an announcement by us of one or more significant acquisitions could result in a quick and significant decline in the price of our securities. Our decision to dispose of real estate assets would change the holding period assumption in our valuation analyses, which could result in material impairment losses and adversely affect our financial results. We evaluate real estate assets using the discounted cash flow method conducted by an independent qualified professional valuation expert. The methods and assumptions adopted for the real estate appraisal carried out by the expert in determining the fair value of the investment property is in accordance to IAS 40, Investment Property. Depending on the result of the evaluation, we may record a gain/loss that would favorably/adversely affect our financial results due to the valuation change on these investment properties. This gain/loss could be material to our results of operations in the period that it is recognized. 13 It may be difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly, which may limit our flexibility. Real estate investments are relatively difficult to buy and sell quickly. Consequently, we may have limited ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. We may not be permitted to dispose of certain properties or pay down the debt associated with those properties when we might otherwise desire to do so without incurring additional costs. In addition, when we dispose of or sell assets, we may not be able to reinvest the sales proceeds and earn similar returns. As part of an acquisition of a property, or a portfolio of properties, we may agree, and in the past have agreed, not to dispose of the acquired properties or reduce the mortgage indebtedness for a long- term period, unless we pay certain of the resulting tax costs of the seller. These agreements could result in us holding on to properties that we would otherwise sell and not pay down or refinance our debts. In addition, when we dispose of or sell assets, we may not be able to reinvest the sales proceeds and earn returns similar to those generated by the assets that were sold. There are material internal control weaknesses in our internal control. Our internal control over financial reporting was not effective due to material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, and such weaknesses continues to date. Material weaknesses in our internal controls include the lack of periodic interim review of the financial statements by the management, lack of segregation of duties, untimely reconciliation, improper checks and balances, lack of an audit committee, and the fact that the Company’s review procedures in connection with financial reporting are limited. Our current management further identified other weaknesses in entity level controls, including, but not limited to, control environment, risk assessment processes, information sharing, and monitoring processes. Such weaknesses resulted in the Company’s restatement of its 2013 financial statements. Our current management intends to design and implement processes and procedures that will provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with IFRS and its related interpretations as funding becomes available to be able to put the components in place. 