D. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the material risks described below, together with the other information contained in this report, before making a decision to invest in our securities. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks associated with our business We may not be able to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, in which case we would automatically dissolve and liquidate our assets, and you may not be able to recover your full investment. Pursuant to our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association, we must enter into a letter of intent or definitive agreement to complete a business combination with a fair market value of at least 80% of the balance of the trust account at the time of the business combination (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of $1,022,833 and taxes payable) by September 30, 2012 (or March 30, 2013 pursuant to the automatic period extension). If we fail to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, we will, in accordance with our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association, automatically dissolve, liquidate and wind up. The foregoing requirements are set forth in Article 156 of our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association and may not be eliminated without the vote of our board of directors and the vote of at least 80% of the voting power of our outstanding ordinary shares. We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of our initial business combination. We do not have any specific business combination under consideration, and neither we, nor any representative acting on our behalf, has had any contacts with any target businesses regarding a business combination, nor taken any direct or indirect actions to locate or search for a target business. Although $10.02 per share is initially placed in trust, we may incur liabilities which are satisfied from the funds held in trust. If so, you will not be able to recover your full investment. You will not have any rights or interest in funds from the trust account, except under certain limited circumstances, and therefore may not have access to such funds until March 30, 2013. Our public shareholders will be entitled to receive funds from the trust account only in the event of our liquidation or if they seek to redeem their respective ordinary shares for cash in connection with a business combination that is consummated by us. In no other circumstances will a shareholder have any right or interest of any kind in the trust account. Therefore, you may not be able to obtain access to such funds until March 30, 2013. Unlike other blank check companies, we are permitted, pursuant to our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association, to extend the date before which we must consummate an initial business combination to March 30, 2013. As a result, your funds may be held in the trust account for up to two years. Unlike other blank check companies, if we have entered into a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement by September 30, 2012 the date before which we must consummate our initial business combination, to avoid being required to liquidate, will be automatically extended to March 30, 2013. We believe that an extension could be necessary due to the circumstances involved in the evaluation and closing of a business combination in Greater China, including preparing audited financial statements in accordance with applicable accounting standards, the possible need for restructuring and reorganizing corporate entities and assets (particularly with respect to state-owned enterprises) and the requirements of complex local regulatory filings and approvals. If the period is extended, we will have an additional 6 months beyond the more usual 18-month period with which to complete our initial business combination. As a result we may be able to hold your funds in the trust account for up to two years and thus delay the receipt by you of your funds from the trust account. 8 Under Cayman Islands law, the requirements and restrictions relating to our IPO contained in our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association may be amended, which could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our shareholders by such requirements and restrictions. Our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association set forth certain requirements and restrictions relating to our IPO that apply to us until the consummation of our initial business combination. Specifically, our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association provide, among other things, that: ·if we have entered into a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement with respect to a business combination by September 30, 2012, the period of time to consummate a business combination will be automatically extended by an additional 6 months; ·we may consummate our initial business combination only if public shareholders owning less than 83% of the ordinary shares sold in our IPO, exercise their redemption rights; ·if our initial business combination is consummated, shareholders who exercised their redemption rights will receive their pro rata share of the trust account; ·if we have not completed an initial business combination by September 30, 2012 (or March 30, 2013 pursuant to the automatic period extension), our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating and we will distribute to all of our public shareholders their pro rata share of the trust account. This has the same effect as if our board of directors and shareholders had formally voted to approve our voluntary winding up and dissolution. As a result, no vote would be required from our shareholders to commence such a voluntary winding up and dissolution; ·our management will take all actions necessary to liquidate our trust account to our public shareholders as part of our plan of dissolution if a business combination is not consummated within the time periods specified in our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association; ·our shareholders’ rights to receive a portion of the trust account are limited such that they may only receive a portion of the trust account upon liquidation of our trust account to our public shareholders as part of our plan of distribution or upon the exercise of their redemption rights; ·we may not consummate any other merger, capital stock exchange, stock purchase, asset acquisition or similar transaction or control through contractual arrangements other than a business combination that meets the conditions specified in our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association, including the requirement that our initial business combination be with one or more operating businesses whose fair market value, either individually or collectively, is equal to at least 80% of the amount in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions and taxes payable) at the time of such business combination; ·prior to our initial business combination, we may not issue any units, ordinary shares, warrants or any options or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for ordinary shares, or any preferred shares, that participate in any manner in the proceeds of the trust account, or that vote as a class with the ordinary shares sold in our IPO on a business combination; ·the board of directors shall review and approve all payments made to our founders, officers, directors, and their respective affiliates, other than the payment of an aggregate of $7,500 per month to Kaiyuan Real Estate Development for office space, administrative services and secretarial support, with any interested director abstaining from such review and approval; ·we may not to enter into any transaction with any of our officers, directors or any of our or their respective affiliates without the prior approval by a majority of our disinterested directors, who had access, at our expense, to our attorneys or independent legal counsel, and unless our disinterested directors determine that the terms of such transaction are no less favorable to us than those that would be available to us with respect to such a transaction from unaffiliated third parties; and ·we may not (i) consummate a business combination with a target business that is a portfolio company of, or has otherwise received a financial investment from, our founders or their affiliates, or that is affiliated with our founders or our directors, or officers, or (ii) consummate a business combination with any underwriter in our initial public offering, or underwriting selling group member, or any of their affiliates, unless we obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm that is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, that a business combination with such target business is fair to our shareholders from a financial point of view. 9 Pursuant to our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association, the foregoing provisions may be amended by at least 80% of the voting power of our outstanding ordinary shares. In addition, the relevant portions of the agreement governing the trust account can only be amended with the consent of 80% of the voting power of public shares. Except for the shares issued immediately prior to our IPO and the shares underlying the units issued in connection with our IPO, we will not issue securities with voting rights to vote on any proposals to amend our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association prior to a business combination. If any of these provisions are amended, our shareholders: ·may not have all of the rights they previously had; ·might not receive the amount anticipated in connection with a redemption or liquidation; and ·might not receive amounts from the trust account in the time frames specified in our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association. In addition, our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association provide shareholders with redemption rights only in connection with a business combination. In the event that a vote is called to consider other amendments to our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association there can be no assurance that redemption rights will be granted. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from certain rules that are applicable to U.S. companies, and while we have agreed with the underwriters in our IPO to comply with certain of these requirements, such agreement can be waived without your consent and you may receive less information about us and our operations than you would receive if such agreements were not waived or we were a U.S. company. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the rules of the Exchange Act prescribing the furnishing and content of proxy statements to shareholders, and our executive officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from certain of the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. In addition, we are not required under the Exchange Act to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act. Therefore you may receive less information about us than you would receive if we were a U.S. company. We have agreed with the underwriters in our IPO that, for the period commencing with the date of our IPO and ending on the consummation of our initial business combination, we will: ·in the event we hold a shareholder vote in connection with a business combination, comply with all the procedural and disclosure requirements in the United States federal securities laws applicable to domestic issuers registered under the Exchange Act with respect to the furnishing and content of our proxy statement in connection with the shareholder vote for the proposed business combination; ·comply with the rules and regulations under the Exchange Act prescribing the requirements and filing deadlines for annual reports on Form 20-F and current reports on Form 6-K complying with those rules and regulations; and ·furnish to American shareholders an English language version of our annual financial statements and all other materials regularly provided to other shareholders, and publish, at least semi-annually, an English language version of our interim financial statements filed with the SEC. However, the agreement to provide such information to our shareholders may be waived, in whole or in part, by the representative of the underwriters in our IPO. The representative may have a conflict of interest in granting a waiver if such requirements prevent or delay a business combination from occurring because a substantial portion of the underwriter’s discount from the IPO is deferred until, and subject to, the closing of a business combination. 10 If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in the trust account may be reduced and the per share liquidation price received by you will be less than $10.02 per share. Our placing of funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third-party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all prospective target businesses we enter into agreements with and all vendors and service providers that we contract to provide services to us, which we collectively refer to as the contracted parties, execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public shareholders. There is no guarantee that we will be able to get waivers from the contracted parties and there is no guarantee that even if the contracted parties executed such agreements with us that such waivers will be enforceable by operation of law or that the contracted parties would be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account. In the event that a potential contracted party were to refuse to execute such a waiver, we will execute an agreement with that person only if our management first determines that we would be unable to obtain, on a reasonable basis, substantially similar services or opportunities from another person willing to execute such a waiver. Accordingly, the proceeds held in the trust account may be subject to claims which would take priority over the claims of our public shareholders and, as a result, the per share liquidation price could be less than $10.02 per share due to claims of such creditors. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to dissolve and liquidate, our founders, by agreement, will jointly and severally indemnify us for all claims of contracted parties, to the extent we fail to obtain valid and enforceable waivers from such parties. Under these circumstances, our board of directors would have a fiduciary obligation to our shareholders to bring a claim against our founders to enforce their indemnification obligations. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the funds held in our trust account will be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our public shareholders. To the extent bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public shareholders the liquidation amounts due them. Unlike other blank check companies, we allow up to 83% of our public shareholders to exercise their redemption rights. This higher threshold will make it easier for us to consummate a business combination with which you may not agree and could result in more money from the trust account being used to pay for redemptions than in other blank check companies, and very little money remaining in trust for the post-transaction company. When we seek to consummate our initial business combination, we will offer each shareholder the right to have his, her or its ordinary shares converted to cash if the initial business combination is consummated. Our founders have agreed not to redeem any ordinary shares held by them. We will consummate the initial business combination only if public shareholders owning 83% or more of the shares sold in this offering do not exercise their redemption rights. However, regardless of the requirements of our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association a potential target may make it a closing condition to our business combination that we have a certain amount of cash in excess of the minimum amount we are required to have at the time of closing. In the past, many blank check companies have had redemption thresholds of between 20% and 40%, which makes it more difficult for such companies to consummate their initial business combination. Thus, because we permit a larger number of shareholders to exercise their redemption rights, it will be easier for us to consummate an initial business combination with a target business in the face of strong shareholder dissent. Depending on the number of shares that are redeemed in connection with our initial business combination, we may have very little money in our trust account with which to consummate our initial business combination, which may result in our having to obtain additional financing to consummate our initial business combination, result in less money being available for use as working capital post business combination, or result in our failure to consummate an initial business combination. Since the underwriters of our IPO are entitled to receive the full deferred underwriting discount of 2.8% of the gross proceeds of our IPO upon the consummation of our initial business combination regardless of the number of ordinary shares that are redeemed, we may be unable to consummate a business combination and public shareholders may have to wait until our liquidation to receive a pro rata share of the trust account. 11 The underwriters are entitled to receive the full deferred underwriting discount of 2.8% of the gross proceeds of our IPO, or $1,022,833, upon consummation of our initial business combination, regardless of the number of ordinary shares that are redeemed. In our IPO, the underwriters did not agree to prorate the deferred underwriting discount because a majority of the total underwriting discount was deferred and the overall discount was relatively low for a public offering by a blank check company. If we do not have the funds to pay the deferred underwriting discount due to a potential target making it a closing condition to our business combination that we have a certain amount of cash in excess of the minimum amount we are required to have at the time of closing and the number of our shareholders electing to exercise their redemption rights, we will not be able to consummate a business combination. As a result, public shareholders may have to wait until September 30, 2012 (or March 30, 2013 pursuant to the automatic period extension) in order to be able to receive a pro rata portion of the trust account in connection with our dissolution and liquidation. Even though we have a redemption threshold of 83%, we may be unable to consummate a business combination if a target business requires that we have cash in excess of the minimum amount we are required to have at closing and public shareholders may have to remain shareholders of our company and wait until our liquidation to receive a pro rata share of the trust account or attempt to sell their shares in the open market. A potential target may make it a closing condition to our business combination that we have a certain amount of cash in excess of the minimum amount we are required to have pursuant to our organizational documents available at the time of closing, effectively reducing the number of shareholders who can redeem their shares in connection with such business combination or requiring us to obtain an alternative source of funding. If the number of our shareholders electing to exercise their redemption rights has the effect of reducing the amount of money available to us to consummate a business combination below such minimum amount and we are not able to locate an alternative source of funding, we will not be able to consummate such business combination and we may not be able to locate another suitable target within the applicable time period, if at all. As a result, public shareholders may have to remain shareholders of our company and wait until September 30, 2012 (or March 30, 2013 pursuant to the automatic period extension) in order to be able to receive a pro rata portion of the trust account in connection with our dissolution and liquidation, or attempt to sell their shares in the open market prior to such time, in which case they may receive less than a pro rata share of the trust account for their shares. Furthermore, in the event that public shareholders must wait until our liquidation they may not receive a full pro rata portion of the trust account to the extent that third party creditors have a claim to such funds. See. “Proposed Business — Effecting a Business Combination — Automatic dissolution and liquidation if no business combination.” Because the underwriters of our IPO are entitled to receive the full deferred underwriting discount of 2.8% of the gross proceeds of our IPO upon consummation of our initial business combination regardless of the number of ordinary shares that are redeemed, the ordinary shares that are not redeemed will have a lower value than the amount of cash per redeeming share, since the redemption amount is not discounted for the deferred underwriting discount. At the time we complete our initial business combination, there will be released to the underwriters of our IPO from the trust account deferred underwriting discounts and commissions that are equal to 2.8% of the gross proceeds of our IPO, or $1,022,833. The underwriters of our IPO are entitled to receive the full deferred underwriting discount regardless of the number of shares that are redeemed. In connection with our initial business combination, our shares may be redeemed for a pro rata portion of the trust account (initially approximately $10.02 per share, which includes $0.28 per share attributable to deferred underwriting discounts and commissions), including accrued but undistributed interest, net of (i) taxes payable, and (ii) interest income earned on the trust account previously released to us to fund our working capital and general corporate requirements. Therefore, the value of the ordinary shares that are not redeemed will be lower than the value of the ordinary shares that are redeemed since the redemption amount per share is not discounted for the deferred underwriting discount. Our redemption threshold of 83% may reduce the liquidity of our securities in the open market. Since we have a redemption threshold of 83%, a high number of public shares may be redeemed in connection with our initial business combination, which would result in significantly fewer public shares issued and outstanding, and which would in turn significantly reduce the liquidity of our securities, including our public shares that are not redeemed. 12 At the time of a business combination public shareholders will be entitled to redeem up to 83% of the public shares, as a result of which our public shareholders will have limited information regarding the combined company’s capital structure prior to the business combination. Depending on the number of shareholders who choose to exercise their redemption rights in connection with our initial business combination, pursuant to our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, we could be required to redeem for cash up to 83% of the ordinary shares sold in our IPO, or 3,031,969 ordinary shares at an initial per share redemption price of approximately $10.02 per share for approximately $30,380,329 in the aggregate. However, regardless of the requirements of our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association a potential target may make it a closing condition to our business combination that we have a certain amount of cash in excess of the minimum amount we are required to have at the time of closing. In the proxy materials and/or tender offer materials we will prepare in connection with the business combination, we will only provide pro forma financial information assuming no redemption and full redemptions (or the maximum permitted by the target) by public shareholders in order to provide our shareholders with the range of possible capital structures for the combined company. Given the relatively high redemption threshold the difference in capital structure assuming no redemptions and full redemptions will be significant. Furthermore, we will not be able to provide shareholders with any assurance of where, within the possible range disclosed, the combined company will fall following consummation of a business combination. As a result, our public shareholders will have limited information regarding the combined company’s capital structure at the time of the business combination. The ability of our shareholders to exercise their redemption rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. We will offer each shareholder the right to have his, her or its ordinary shares redeemed for cash in connection with our initial business combination, as long as our initial business combination is consummated. Unlike other blank check companies, shareholders will not be required to vote in connection with our initial business combination to redeem his, her or its ordinary shares for cash. Such holder must exercise his, her or its redemption rights to receive a pro rata portion of the trust account. Accordingly, if our initial business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many shareholders may exercise such redemption rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such redemption, or we may need to arrange third-party financing to help fund the acquisition of our initial business combination in case a larger percentage of shareholders exercise their redemption rights than we expect. Because we have no specific business combination under consideration, we have not taken any steps to secure third-party financing. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate an initial business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price unless we obtain third-party financing, and if such financing involves debt, our leverage ratio may not be optimal for our initial business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. Because we are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, you may face difficulty protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, and certain of our assets may in the future be located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States in a way that will permit a U.S. court to have jurisdiction over us. We are incorporated as a Cayman Islands exempted company. A Cayman Islands exempted company: ·is a company that conducts its business outside the Cayman Islands; ·is exempted from certain requirements of the Cayman Companies Law, including the ·filing of an annual return of its shareholders with the Registrar of Companies; ·does not have to make its register of shareholders open to inspection; and ·may obtain an undertaking against the imposition of any future taxation. 13 Our corporate affairs are governed by our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association, the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands, as the same may be supplemented or amended from time to time, which we refer to herein as the Companies Law, and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands, as well as from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: ·to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and ·to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States. We have been advised by Conyers Dill & Pearman, our counsel as to Cayman Islands law, that (i) they are unaware of any proceedings that have been brought in the Cayman Islands to enforce judgments of the courts in the United States or to impose liabilities based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States; (ii) a final and conclusive judgment in the federal or state courts of the United States under which a sum of money is payable, other than a sum payable in respect of taxes, fines, penalties or similar charges, may be subject to enforcement proceedings as a debt in the courts of the Cayman Islands under the common law doctrine of obligation; and (iii) because it is uncertain whether a Cayman Islands court would determine that a judgment of a United States court based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States is in the nature of a penalty, it is uncertain whether such a liability judgment would be enforceable in the Cayman Islands. The Grand Court of the Cayman Islands may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. Because some of our directors and officers reside, and all of the trust fund assets are held, outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights against them or to enforce U.S. court judgments against them outside the United States. Some of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States and, after the consummation of our initial business combination, substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. We believe that certain countries in Greater China (such as the PRC) do not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States. As a result, it may be necessary to comply with local law in order to obtain an enforceable judgment against certain directors and officers and certain assets. It may therefore be difficult for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers outside of the United States or to enforce judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under U.S. federal securities laws. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and certain Asian countries (such as the PRC) would permit effective enforcement of criminal penalties of the U.S. federal securities laws. Since we have not yet selected a particular industry or any target business with which to complete a business combination, you are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the industry or business in which we may ultimately operate. We intend to consummate a business combination with a company in Greater China in any industry we choose that we believe will provide significant opportunities for growth. We are not limited to any particular industry or type of business. Because we have not yet identified or approached any specific target business with respect to a business combination, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular industry in which we may ultimately operate or the target business or businesses with which we may ultimately enter a business combination. Although we will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risks present in that target business. Even if we properly assess those risks, some of them may be outside of our control or ability to affect. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our securities will not ultimately prove to be less favorable to investors than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. 14 Your only opportunity to evaluate and affect the investment decision regarding a potential business combination may be limited to exercising your redemption rights in connection with our initial business combination. You are relying on the ability of our officers and directors, with the assistance of employees, advisors and consultants, to choose a suitable business combination. At the time of your investment in us, you have not been provided with an opportunity to evaluate the specific merits or risks of any potential target businesses, and we do not intend on holding a shareholder vote to approve our initial business combination. Accordingly, your only opportunity to evaluate and affect the investment decision regarding a potential business combination may be limited to exercising your redemption rights in connection with our initial business combination. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. Identifying, executing and realizing attractive returns on business combinations is highly competitive and involves a high degree of uncertainty. We expect to encounter competition for potential target businesses from other entities having a business objective similar to ours. Some of these competitors may be well established and have extensive experience in identifying and consummating business combinations directly or through affiliates. Some of these competitors may possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do, and our financial resources are relatively limited when contrasted with those of our competitors. Furthermore, over the past several years, other “blank check” companies have been formed, and a number of such companies have grown in size. Additional blank check companies with similar investment objectives as ours may be formed in the future by other unrelated parties and these companies may have substantially more capital and may have access to and utilize additional financing on more attractive terms. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses with which we could combine using the net proceeds from our IPO and the placement warrants, together with additional financing, if available, our ability to compete in combining with certain sizeable target businesses is limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing a business combination with certain target businesses. In addition: ·the redemption of ordinary shares held by our shareholders into cash may reduce the resources available to us to fund our initial business combination; and ·the requirement to acquire an operating business or businesses, or a portion of such business or businesses, that have a fair market value, individually or collectively, of at least equal to 80% of the balance in the trust account (less the deferred underwriting discounts and commissions and taxes payable) at the time of the initial business combination (i) could require us to acquire several or closely related operating businesses at the same time, all of which acquisitions would be contingent on the closings of the other acquisitions, which could make it more difficult to consummate our initial business combination and (ii) together with our ability to proceed with a business combination only if public shareholders owning less than 83% of the shares sold in our IPO exercise their redemption rights (or such lower percentage as a target business may require), may require us to raise additional funds through additional sales of our securities or incur indebtedness in order to enable us to effect such a business combination. Any of these factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage in consummating our initial business combination on favorable terms or at all. 15 We are not required to obtain a fairness opinion from an independent investment banking firm as to the fair market value of the target business unless the board of directors is unable to independently determine the fair market value. Our initial business combination must be with one or more target businesses whose fair market value, individually or collectively, is equal to at least 80% of the balance in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of $1,022,833 and taxes payable) at the time of such acquisition. The fair market value of the target will be determined by our board of directors based upon an analysis conducted by them (which may include an analysis of actual and potential sales, earnings, cash flow and/or book value). If our board is not able to independently determine that the target business has a sufficient fair market value to meet the threshold criterion, we will obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm that is a member of FINRA with respect to the satisfaction of such criterion. We are also required to obtain a fairness opinion from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm that is a member of FINRA, (i) if our initial business combination is with a target business that is a portfolio company of, or has otherwise received a financial investment from, our founders or their affiliates, or that is affiliated with our founders or our directors, or officers, or (ii) if our initial business combination is with any underwriter of our IPO, or underwriting selling group member, or any of their affiliates. In all other instances, we have no obligation to obtain or provide you with a fairness opinion. Investment banking firms providing fairness opinions typically place limitations on the purposes for which the opinion may be used, and there can be no assurances that, as a result of such limitations or applicable law, shareholders will be entitled to rely on the opinion. We expect to require that any firm selected by us to provide a fairness opinion will adhere to general industry practice in stating the purposes for which its opinion may be used. If no opinion is obtained or if shareholders are not permitted to rely on the opinion, our shareholders will be relying solely on the judgment of our board of directors with respect to the determination of the fair market value of our initial business combination. If we issue capital securities or redeemable debt securities to consummate our initial business combination, your equity interest in us could be diluted or there may be a change in control of our company. Our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association authorizes the issuance of up to 50,000,000 ordinary shares, par value $0.001 per share and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share. As of the date of this report, there are 37,374,967 authorized but unissued ordinary shares available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon (i) full exercise of the underwriters’ unit purchase option, (ii) our outstanding warrants, including the warrants included in the units underlying the underwriters’ unit purchase option, and (iii) the shares issuable upon exercise of the options granted to our directors, officers, employees, and consultants), and 1,000,000 authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock. We have no other commitments as of the date of report to issue any additional securities. We may issue a substantial number of additional ordinary shares, including redeemable debt securities, as consideration for or to finance a business combination, particularly as we intend to focus primarily on acquisitions of middle market companies with valuations between approximately $50 million and $150 million. Our issuance of additional ordinary shares, including upon redemption of any debt securities, may: ·significantly reduce your equity interest in us; ·subordinate the rights of holders of ordinary shares if preferred shares are issued with rights senior to those afforded to our ordinary shares; ·cause a change in control if a substantial number of our ordinary shares are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use any net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and result in the resignation or removal of our current officers and directors; ·in certain circumstances, have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us; and ·adversely affect the then-prevailing market price for our ordinary shares. The value of your investment in us may decline if any of these events occur. The underwriting agreement and our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association prohibit us, prior to our initial business combination, from issuing additional units, additional ordinary shares, preferred shares, additional warrants, or any options or other securities convertible or exchangeable into ordinary shares, or preferred shares, that participate in any manner in the proceeds of the trust account, or which votes as a class with the ordinary shares on a business combination. 16 If we acquire a company by issuing debt securities, our post-combination operating results may decline due to increased interest expense or our liquidity may be adversely affected by an acceleration of our indebtedness. We may elect to enter into a business combination that requires us to incur debt to finance a business combination, particularly as we intend to focus primarily on acquisitions of middle market companies with valuations between approximately $50 million and $150 million. Such incurrence of debt may: ·lead to default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating cash flow after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; ·cause an acceleration of our obligation to repay debt, even if we are then current in our debt service obligations, if we breach the covenants contained in the terms of any debt documents, such as covenants that require us to meet certain financial ratios or maintain designated reserves, without a waiver or renegotiation of such covenants; ·create an obligation to repay immediately all principal and accrued interest, if any, upon demand to the extent any debt is payable on demand; ·limit our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt securities contain covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing; ·require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our ordinary shares, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; ·limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; ·make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry, and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and ·place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. Certain of our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time and determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Certain of our officers were affiliated with Spring Creek Acquisition Corp., a “blank check” company that was engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us, and our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies that are engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Furthermore, each of our principals may become involved with subsequent blank check companies similar to our company. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity time should be allocated or a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. As a result, a potential target business may be presented to another entity with which our officers and directors have a pre-existing fiduciary obligation and we may miss out on a potential transaction. It is possible that, concurrently with our initial business combination, some of the entities with which our officers and directors are affiliated could purchase a minority interest in the target company, which may result in conflicts of interest. It is possible that, concurrently with our initial business combination, some of the entities with which our officers and directors are affiliated could purchase a minority interest in the target company, subject to the requirement that we must acquire a portion of the business with a value that is equal to at least 80% of the amount in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions and taxes payable) and that we acquire a majority of the voting rights of the target company and control of the majority of any governing body of the target company. An investment by one of these entities would result in a conflict of interest for our officers and directors since they would be determining what portion of the target company we would be purchasing and the amount that these other companies would purchase. In connection with any co-investment in a target business, the entity or entities affiliated with our officers and/or directors will be required to pay the same price per share or unit for their interest in the target company as we pay, the other terms of the investment of such affiliated entity or entities will be required to be no more favorable than the terms of our investment and such investment will require the prior approval by a majority of our disinterested directors. In addition, the proxy materials and/or tender offer materials disclosing the business combination would disclose the terms of the co-investment by the affiliated entity or entities. 17 Some of our executive officers and directors may remain with us following our initial business combination, which may result in a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination and in the public shareholders’ best interests. We intend that at least some of our executive officers and directors will continue to be involved in our management following our initial business combination. Therefore, the personal and financial interests of our executive officers and directors may influence them to condition a business combination on their retention by us and to view more favorably target businesses that offer them a continuing role, either as an officer, director, consultant, or other third-party service provider, after the business combination. Our executive officers and directors could be negotiating the terms and conditions of the business combination on our behalf at the same time that they, as individuals, were negotiating the terms and conditions related to an employment, consulting or other agreement with representatives of the potential business combination candidate. As a result, there may be a conflict of interest in the negotiation of the terms and conditions related to such continuing relationships as our executive officers and directors may be influenced by their personal and financial interests rather than the best interests of our public shareholders. Our executive officers and directors may allocate their time to other businesses, thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate our initial business combination. Our executive officers and directors are not required to, and will not, commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and the search for a business combination on the one hand and their other businesses on the other hand. We do not intend to have any full-time employees prior to the consummation of our initial business combination. Each of our executive officers is engaged in several other business endeavors for which he or she is entitled to substantial compensation and our executive officers are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. If our executive officers’ and directors’ other business affairs require them to devote substantial amounts of time to such affairs in excess of their current commitment levels, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs, which may have a negative impact on our ability to consummate our initial business combination. Our founders currently control us and may influence certain actions requiring a shareholder vote. As of the date of this report, our founders beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 25% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares. In connection with a shareholder vote to approve our initial business combination and/or amend Article 156 of our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association (the article that contains all of the special provisions applicable to us prior to and in connection with our initial business combination) prior to consummation of our initial business combination, our founders have agreed to vote the founders’ shares in the same manner as a majority of the public shareholders who vote at the special or annual meeting called for such purpose. In addition, each of our founders, directors, and officers has agreed that if he, she or it acquires ordinary shares in or following our IPO, he, she or it will vote all such acquired shares in favor of any business combination presented to our shareholders by our board of directors, and not to exercise redemption rights in connection with any shares held by such person. With respect to a vote to amend Article 156 of our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, our founders, directors, and officers may vote any shares acquired by them in or following our IPO in any way they wish. Because our founders and their designees hold, in the aggregate, warrants to purchase 7,192,667 ordinary shares, the exercise of those warrants may increase the ownership of our founders. This increase could allow our founders to influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and executive officers, approval of benefits plans, mergers and significant corporate transactions after consummation of our initial business combination. Moreover, except to the extent shareholder proposals are properly and timely submitted, our directors will determine which matters, including prospective business combinations, to submit to a shareholder vote. As a result, they will exert substantial control over actions requiring a shareholder vote both before and following our initial business combination. 18 Our one-third quorum threshold may make it easier for our founders to influence actions requiring a shareholder vote. In accordance with our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association, two shareholders representing at least one-third of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares (whether or not held by public shareholders) constitutes a quorum at a shareholders meeting. As of the date of this report, our founders hold approximately 25% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Accordingly, if only a small proportion of public shareholders participate in a shareholders meeting and all of our founders participate, the quorum requirement may be satisfied and our founders could cast a majority of the votes at such meeting. If we hold a shareholder vote to approve a business combination, the approval threshold for a proposed business combination may make it easier for us to consummate a business combination with which you may not agree. If, and only if, we structure our initial business combination to require a shareholder approval under applicable Cayman Islands law, which normally only requires shareholders’ approval where the business combination involves a merger between us (rather than a subsidiary formed for the purpose of the transaction) and the target, amendments to our memorandum and articles of association, a change in the par value of our shares or a change in the amount of our authorized share capital. The approval threshold in such event would be a majority (or 66 2/3% for amendments to our memorandum and articles) of shares voted at a meeting of shareholders called for the purpose of approving such proposal. This approval threshold is lower than in certain U.S. jurisdictions like Delaware where the default threshold with respect to a business combination transaction that requires shareholder approval requires approval of a majority of shares entitled to vote at a meeting. To the extent there are shares entitled to vote at a meeting of shareholders called to approve a business combination that do not vote on the business combination proposal, it may make it easier for us to consummate a business combination with which you may not agree. Our founders, officers, and directors may purchase additional ordinary shares in the open market, which may give them greater influence over the approval of our initial business combination if we have a shareholder vote to approve the business combination. In the event that our founders, officers, and directors acquire additional shares in or after our IPO, they have agreed to vote such shares in favor of our initial business combination if we have a shareholder vote to approve our initial business combination, and have agreed not to exercise redemption rights with respect to any shares held by them. Thus, additional purchases of our shares by our founders, officers, and directors would allow them to exert additional influence over the approval of our initial business combination in the event we have a shareholder vote to approve our initial business combination. Factors they would consider in making such additional purchases would include consideration of the current trading price of our ordinary shares and whether any such additional purchases would likely increase the chances that our initial business combination would be approved. In addition, if our founders, officers, and directors acquire additional ordinary shares, then our public shareholders (other than our founders, officers, and directors with respect to ordinary shares they purchase in or after our IPO) will hold proportionately fewer shares, and therefore it is likely that such public shareholders will ultimately redeem fewer shares into a pro rata portion of the trust account, making it more likely that we will remain under the 83% redemption threshold (or such lower percentage as a target business may require), which is required in order to approve our initial business combination. The ability of our founders, officers, and directors to acquire our ordinary shares in the open market, and vote such acquired shares in favor of our initial business combination if we hold a shareholder vote to approve our initial business combination may allow us to consummate an initial business combination that otherwise would not have been approved, but for the purchases by our founders, officers, and directors in the open market. Because our founders, officers, and directors have purchased their securities at a lower average cost than our other public shareholders, some of our founders, officers, and directors may profit from a business combination that would be unprofitable for our other public shareholders. 19 Certain obligations of our founders are memorialized in agreements between the founders, the underwriters of our IPO and us and these agreements may be amended to change these obligations or eliminate them entirely. In connection with our IPO, the founders have agreed to certain obligations, including: ·to transfer restrictions on, and the placement in escrow of, the founders’ units and underlying securities; ·to forfeit for no consideration: (1) all of the founders’ units in the event we are unable to complete a business combination; (2) 274,744 founders’ units in the event the last sales price of our ordinary shares does not equal or exceed $12.00 per share (as adjusted for share splits, share dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for at least one period of 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period within 12 months following the closing of our initial business combination; and (3) 274,744 founders’ units in the event the last sales price of our ordinary shares does not equal or exceed $13.00 per share (as adjusted for share splits, share dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for at least one period of 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period between 12 and 24 months following the closing of our initial business combination; ·in connection with a shareholder vote to approve our initial business combination and/or amend Article 156 of our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association (the article that contains all of the special provisions applicable to us prior to and in connection with our initial business combination) prior to consummation of our initial business combination, to vote the founders’ shares in the same manner as a majority of the public shareholders; ·if he, she or it acquires ordinary shares in or following our IPO, he, she or it will vote all such acquired shares in favor of any business combination presented to our shareholders by our board of directors, and not to exercise redemption rights in connection with such shares; ·that he, she or it will not exercise redemption rights in connection with any shares held by such person; ·to waive their rights to participate in any liquidation distribution with respect to the founders’ shares if we fail to consummate an initial business combination; ·that they will not exercise redemption rights with respect to the founders’ shares and have agreed not to tender their shares in a issuer tender offer in connection with our initial business combination; ·to advance us the funds necessary to complete a liquidation in the event we do no consummate a business combination and not to seek repayment for such expenses; ·if we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to dissolve and liquidate, to jointly and severally indemnify us for all claims of contracted parties, to the extent we fail to obtain valid and enforceable waivers from such parties (we have not, however, sought information nor received information from the founders relating to their ability to satisfy any indemnification obligation); and ·not to participate in a co-investment in a target business unless the terms of such co-investment are no more favorable than the terms of our investment and such investment will require the prior approval by a majority of our disinterested directors. These obligations are included in one or more of the following agreements, each of which is filed with the registration statement for our IPO: the letter agreements with the representative of the underwriters and each founder, the underwriting agreement with the underwriters, and the escrow agreement with our transfer agent and the founders. Each of these agreements, by their terms, are governed by New York law. In addition, each agreement may be amended or terminated with the consent of each of the parties thereto. Accordingly, if each of the parties to an agreement determine that these obligations are no longer in their best interest, then the agreements may be amended or terminated and these obligations may be changed or eliminated entirely. We may expend financial, management and other resources in researching acquisitions that are not consummated, which could result in the loss of the costs incurred or materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. If a decision is made not to complete a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate our initial business combination for any number of reasons, including those beyond our control such as if greater than 83% of public shareholders (or such lower percentage as a target business may require) elect to exercise their redemption rights. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. 20 Because our founders own securities in us that do not participate in liquidating distributions, they may have a conflict of interest in deciding if a particular target business is an attractive candidate for a business combination. On February 4, 2010, February 12, 2010, and November 7, 2010, Yong Hui Li, our Chairman, Diana Chia-Huei Liu, our Chief Executive Officer and director, William Tsu-Cheng Yu, our President, Chief Financial Officer, and director, The Shodan Company, an affiliate of William Tsu-Cheng Yu, Gary Han Ming Chang, our Chief Investment Officer and director, Steven Chia-Sun Liu, Joseph Chia-Yao Liu, Olivia Lin Yu, and Joyce Chen Liu acquired an aggregate of 1,564,000 founders’ units for an aggregate purchase price of $1,564. Effective March 24, 2011, the founders’ units were reduced in proportion to the reduction in the size of our IPO from an aggregate of 1,564,000 founders’ units to an aggregate of 1,407,600 founders’ units. Following the partial exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option on May 10, 2011, an aggregate of 165,592 founders’ units were forfeited for no consideration, and as a result our founders own an aggregate of 1,242,008 founders’ units. Of these founders’ units, 247,744 founders’ units, and the underlying ordinary shares and warrants (equal to approximately 5.2% of our issued and outstanding shares) will be forfeited for no consideration in the event the last sales price of our ordinary shares does not equal or exceed $12.00 per share (as adjusted for share splits, share dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for at least one period of 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period within 12 months following the closing of our initial business combination, and an additional 247,744 founders’ units, and the underlying ordinary shares and warrants (equal to approximately 5.2% of our issued and outstanding shares) will be forfeited for no consideration in the event the last sales price of our ordinary shares does not equal or exceed $13.00 per share (as adjusted for share splits, share dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for at least one period of 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period between 12 and 24 months following the closing of our initial business combination. Upon our dissolution and liquidation, none of our founders will have the right to receive distributions from the trust account with respect to the founders’ shares. In addition, the representative of the underwriters of our IPO, our founders and their designees purchased an aggregate of 2,185,067 placement warrants immediately prior to the completion of our IPO. The $1,638,800 purchase price of the placement warrants is included in the trust account that will be distributed to our public shareholders in the event of our dissolution and liquidation. In the event of our dissolution and liquidation, our founders will not receive distributions from the trust account with respect to the placement warrants and the placement warrants will expire worthless. Therefore, our directors’ and officers’ personal and financial interests may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting target businesses and consummating our initial business combination in a timely manner. This may also result in a conflict of interest when they determine whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our shareholders’ best interest. Unless we complete a business combination, neither our officers, directors, nor any of their respective affiliates, will receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses they incur if such expenses exceed the amount available to us for working capital and general corporate purposes. Therefore, they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination and in the public shareholders’ best interest. Neither our officers, directors, nor any of their respective affiliates, will receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses reasonably incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount not required to be retained in the trust account unless the business combination is consummated. Our officers and directors may, as part of any such combination, negotiate the repayment of some or all of any such expenses. If the target business’ owners do not agree to such repayment, this could cause our management to view such potential business combination unfavorably, thereby resulting in a conflict of interest. The financial interest of our officers, directors, or any of their respective affiliates, could influence their motivation in selecting a target business and thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the shareholders’ best interest. 21 We will probably consummate only one business combination with the proceeds of our IPO, which means that our operations will probably depend on a single business. The net proceeds from our IPO and the sale of the placement warrants, after reserving $385,800 of the proceeds for our operating expenses, $1,297,511 for offering expenses and $1,022,833 for the deferred underwriting discount, provided us with approximately $36,606,096, which we may use to consummate an initial business combination. Our initial business combination must be with one or more target businesses whose fair market value, individually or collectively, is equal to at least 80% of the balance in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of $1,022,833 and taxes payable) at the time of such acquisition. We may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including the existence of complex accounting issues and the requirement that we prepare and file pro forma financial statements with the SEC that present operating results and the financial condition of several target businesses as if they had been operated on a combined basis. Additionally, we may encounter numerous logistical issues if we pursue multiple target businesses, including the difficulty of coordinating the timing of negotiations, proxy materials and/or tender offer disclosure and closings. We may also be exposed to the risk that our inability to satisfy conditions to closing with respect to the initial business combination with one or more target businesses would not be satisfied, bringing the fair market value of the initial business combination below the required threshold of 80% of the balance in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of $1,022,833 and taxes payable). Due to these added risks, we are more likely to choose a single target business with which to pursue a business combination than multiple target businesses. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may depend solely on the performance of a single business. If this occurs, our operations will be highly concentrated and we will not be able to diversify our operations of benefit from spreading of risks of offsetting of losses, unlike other entities that have the resources to consummate several business combinations in different industries or areas of a single industry so as to diversify risks and offset losses. NASDAQ may delist our securities, which could limit investors’ ability to transact in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Additionally, it is likely that the NASDAQ Capital Market would require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements, as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements, at the time of our initial acquisition transaction. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the NASDAQ Capital Market delists our securities from trading, we could face significant consequences, including: ·a limited availability for market quotations for our securities; ·reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; ·a determination that our ordinary shares is a “penny stock,” which will require brokers trading in our ordinary shares to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our ordinary shares; ·limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and ·a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. In addition, we would no longer be subject to NASDAQ Capital Market rules, including rules requiring us to have a certain number of independent directors and to meet other corporate governance standards. We currently meet the NASDAQ Capital Market’s listing standards without making use of the exemptions for foreign private issuers which make the listing standards less stringent than those for U.S. filers, other than the exemption under NASDAQ Listing Rule 5615 to the requirement under NASDAQ Listing Rule 5635 to obtain shareholder approval of a business combination, which exemption the Company plans to utilize. However, in the future we may rely on other exemptions. If we are unable to comply with the rules applicable to for foreign private issuers, we may be delisted. If we are delisted, then we will no longer be required to meet the NASDAQ Capital Market’s listing standards. 22 If our ordinary shares become subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions, and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our ordinary shares have a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our ordinary shares may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: ·make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; ·receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to sale; ·provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and ·obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our ordinary shares become subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. Following the business combination we may discover or otherwise become aware of adverse information regarding our acquired business, and we may be required subsequently to take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring, and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our share price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. We intend to conduct a due diligence investigation for any business we consider. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, we cannot assure you that this diligence will identify all material issues that may be present inside a particular target business, or that factors outside of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. If our diligence fails to discover or identify material issues relating to a target business, industry or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our securities. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-combination debt financing. We may have insufficient resources to cover our operating expenses and the expenses of consummating our initial business combination. We believe that amounts not held in the trust account, together with the interest income on the balance of the trust account (any amounts in the trust account in excess of $10.02 per public share) to be released to us from time to time for working capital requirements, will be sufficient to pay the costs and expenses to which such proceeds are allocated until March 30, 2013. Our estimates are also based on the belief that in-depth due diligence will be undertaken only after we have negotiated and signed a letter of intent or other preliminary agreement that addresses the terms of a business combination. However, if our estimate of the costs of undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating a business combination is less than the actual amount necessary to do so, or if the amounts not held in the trust account is insufficient to pay our costs and expenses, we may be required to raise additional capital, the amount, availability and cost of which is currently unascertainable, through loans or additional investments from our founders, officers, directors or third parties. None of our founders, officers or directors is under any obligation to advance funds to, or invest in, us. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain additional financing. If we do not have sufficient proceeds to fund our initial business combination and are unable to obtain additional financing, we may be required to dissolve and liquidate prior to consummating our initial business combination. 23 We may enter into agreements with consultants or financial advisers that provide for the payment of fees upon the consummation of our initial business combination, and, therefore, such consultants or financial advisers may have conflicts of interest. We may enter into agreements with consultants or financial advisers that provide for the payment of fees upon the consummation of our initial business combination. If we pay consultants or financial advisers fees that are tied to the consummation of our initial business combination, they may have conflicts of interest when providing services to us, and their interests in such fees may influence their advice with respect to a potential business combination. For example, if a consultant’s or financial advisor’s fee is based on the size of the transaction, then they may be influenced to present us larger transactions that may have lower growth opportunities or long-term value versus smaller transactions that may have greater growth opportunities or provide greater value to our shareholders. Similarly, consultants whose fees are based on consummation of a business combination may be influenced to present potential business combinations to us regardless of whether they provide longer-term value for our shareholders. While we will endeavor to structure agreements with consultants and financial advisors to minimize the possibility and extent of these conflicts of interest, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so and that we will not be impacted by the adverse influences they create. We may be unable to obtain additional financing if necessary to consummate a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. We may consider a business combination that will require additional financing, particularly as we intend to focus primarily on acquisitions of middle market companies with valuations between approximately $50 million and $150 million. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate a business combination or that we will have sufficient capital with which to consummate a combination with a particular target business. If the net proceeds of our IPO and from the private placement of the placement warrants are not sufficient to facilitate a particular business combination because: ·of the price paid for the target business; ·of the depletion of offering proceeds not in the trust account or available to us from interest earned on the trust account balance that is expended in search of a target business; or ·we must redeem for cash a significant number of ordinary shares owned by shareholders who elect to exercise their redemption rights, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If additional financing is unavailable to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business or businesses. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business or businesses. If we fail to secure such financing, this failure could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of our combined business or businesses. Neither our founders, directors nor any other party is required to provide any financing to us in connection with, or following, a business combination. Our outstanding warrants may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. The units sold in our IPO include redeemable warrants to purchase 3,652,975 ordinary shares, and the founders’ units include warrants to purchase 1,242,011 ordinary shares. In addition, we issued in a private placement warrants to purchase 2,185,067 ordinary shares to (i) Chardan Capital Markets, LLC, the representative of the underwriters of our IPO, and (ii) our founders and their designees. The founders’ warrants and the placement warrants are identical to those redeemable warrants sold as part of the units in our IPO except that founders’ warrants and placement warrants may be exercised on a cashless basis at any time after a business combination and even if there is not an effective registration statement relating to the shares underlying the warrants and are subject to certain transfer restrictions. We also issued to the representative of the underwriters of our IPO, concurrently with our IPO, for a purchase price of $100, an option to purchase 215,000 units, each unit representing one ordinary share and one redeemable warrant. To the extent we issue ordinary shares to consummate a business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional ordinary shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle to some target businesses. This is because exercise of the warrants will increase the number of issued and outstanding ordinary shares and reduce the value of the shares that may be issued to consummate the initial business combination. Accordingly, the existence of our warrants may make it more difficult to consummate our initial business combination or may increase the cost of a target business if we are unable to consummate our initial business combination solely with cash. Additionally, the sale or possibility of sale of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our ordinary shares or our units or our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. 24 Our board of directors has approved the grant of options to purchase up to 220,000 of our ordinary shares which may cause dilution to you. Our board of directors has approved the grant of options to purchase up to 220,000 of our ordinary shares to our directors, employees, and consultants from time to time, with such terms and conditions as our officers may establish, including options to purchase 60,000 ordinary shares at a purchase price of $0.001 per share prior to our initial public offering, which are currently outstanding. Such options are not exercisable until the closing of the business combination. Share option grants are governed by individual grant agreements and stock restriction agreements as determined by our officers, and may be subject to either time-based or performance-based vesting provisions. Our board of directors has the authority to amend, alter, suspend or terminate our right to grant such share options without the consent of public shareholders within the 220,000 option limit. Accordingly, the above-mentioned options may dilute the equity interest of our shareholders. You will not be able to exercise your redeemable warrants if we do not have an effective registration statement and a prospectus in place when you desire to do so. No redeemable warrants will be exercisable, and we will not be obligated to issue ordinary shares upon exercise of redeemable warrants by a holder unless, at the time of such exercise, we have a registration statement or post-effective amendment under the Securities Act covering the ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the redeemable warrants and a current prospectus relating to ordinary shares. Under the terms of a redeemable warrant agreement between American Stock Transfer & Trust Company as warrant agent, and us, we have agreed to use our best efforts to have a registration statement in effect covering ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the redeemable warrants from the date the redeemable warrants become exercisable and to maintain a current prospectus relating to ordinary shares until the redeemable warrants expire or are redeemed, and to take such action as is necessary to qualify the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the redeemable warrants for sale in those states in which our IPO was initially qualified. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. We have no obligation to settle the redeemable warrants for cash, in any event, and the redeemable warrants may not be exercised and we will not deliver securities therefor in the absence of an effective registration statement and a prospectus available for use. The redeemable warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the redeemable warrants may be limited if there is no registration statement in effect covering the ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the redeemable warrants or the prospectus relating to the ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the redeemable warrants is not current and the redeemable warrants may expire worthless. Holders of founders’ warrants and placement warrants’ may exercise these warrants even if an effective registration statement and a prospectus is not in place, which means they may be able to exercise such warrants while public warrants might not be exercisable and may expire worthless. Unlike the warrants underlying the units issued in connection with our IPO, the warrants underlying the founders’ units and the placement warrants are not restricted from being exercised in the absence of a registration statement under the Securities Act in effect covering the ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the such warrants and a current prospectus relating to ordinary shares. Therefore, once the founder warrants and placement warrants become exercisable, the holders thereof will be able to exercise such warrants regardless of whether the issuance of the underlying ordinary shares is registered under the Securities Act, while public warrants might not be exercisable and may expire worthless. 25 There is currently no market for our securities and a market for our securities may not develop, which would adversely affect the liquidity and price of our securities. There is currently no market for our securities. Investors therefore have no access to information about prior market history on which to base their investment decision. Following our IPO, the price of our securities may vary significantly due to our reports of operating losses, one or more potential business combinations, the filing of periodic reports with the SEC, and general market or economic conditions. Furthermore, an active trading market for our securities may never develop or, if developed, it may not be sustained. You may be unable to sell your securities unless a market can be established and sustained. The absence of a market for our securities will likely have an adverse effect on the price of our securities. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to consummate our initial business combination or operate over the near term or long-term in our intended manner. We do not plan to operate as an investment fund or investment company, or to be engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Our plan is to acquire, hold, operate and grow for the long-term one or more operating businesses or a portion of such business or businesses. We do not plan to operate as a passive investor or as a merchant bank seeking dividends or gains from purchases and sales of securities. Our founders are experienced as officers and directors of operating companies. However, we may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act if, following our IPO and prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, we are viewed as engaging in the business of investing in securities or we own “investment securities” having a value in exceeding 40% of our total assets, and may be required to register as an investment company or a registered investment adviser under the U.S. securities laws. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination, including: ·corporate governance requirements and requirements regarding mergers and share exchanges; ·restrictions on the nature of our investments; ·restrictions on our capital structure and use of multiple classes of securities; and ·restrictions on our use of leverage and collateral; each of which may make it difficult for us to consummate our initial business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: ·registration as an investment company; ·adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and ·reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, and disclosure requirements, and other rules and regulations; compliance with which would reduce the funds we have available outside the trust account to consummate our initial business combination. We do not believe that our anticipated activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act as the net proceeds of our IPO and sale of the placement warrants that are to be held in the trust account may only be invested by the trust agent in “government securities” with specific maturity dates. By restricting the investment of the trust account to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act. If we were deemed to be subject to the Investment Company Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense for which we have not allotted. 26 We are dependent upon Yong Hui Li, Diana Chia-Huei Liu, William Tsu-Cheng Yu, Hui Kai Yan, and Gary Chang and the loss of one or more of them could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations are dependent upon a relatively small group of individuals and, in particular, upon Yong Hui Li, Diana Chia-Huei Liu, William Tsu-Cheng Yu, Hui Kai Yan, and Gary Chang. Each of these persons plays a key role in our search for a target business, and we believe that our success in identifying and completing a business combination with an attractive target business depends on the continued service of these persons, at least until we have consummated our initial business combination. Each of Yong Hui Li, Diana Chia-Huei Liu, William Tsu-Cheng Yu, Hui Kai Yan, and Gary Chang assists us in identifying perspective target businesses by sourcing and performing due diligence on target businesses in Greater China. In addition, each of these individuals assists us in closing a business combination and possibly integrating the target business following such closing. We expect that Messrs. Li, Yan, Yu, Chang and Ms. Liu will negotiate deal terms with target businesses and manage and oversee our advisors and consultants, including legal counsel, accounting professionals and investment banking advisors. In addition, Mr. Li and Mr. Yan will oversee our administrative functions in the PRC. We cannot assure you that such individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. In addition, none of Yong Hui Li, Diana Chia-Huei Liu, William Tsu-Cheng Yu, Hui Kai Yan, and Gary Chang are required to commit any specified amount of time to our affairs and, accordingly, they will have conflicts of interest in allocating management time among various business activities, including identifying potential business combinations and monitoring the related due diligence. We do not have employment or consulting agreements with, or key-man insurance on the life of, one or more of these individuals. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on us and impair our ability to identify and complete a business combination with an attractive target business. We may require shareholders who wish to redeem their shares in connection with a proposed business combination to comply with specific requirements for redemption that may make it more difficult for them to exercise their redemption rights prior to the deadline for exercising their rights. We may require shareholders who wish to exercise their redemption rights regarding their shares in connection with a business combination to either tender their certificates to our transfer agent or to deliver their shares to the transfer agent electronically using the Depository Trust Company’s DWAC (Deposit/Withdrawal At Custodian) System at any time up until the business day immediately preceding the consummation of our initial business combination. We may require these certification and delivery requirements because shareholders of blank check companies who elect to redeem sometimes fail to deliver their share certificates, effectively revoking their redemption election after the business combination, and resulting in an administrative burden for the company and uncertainty relating to its capital structure. In order to obtain a physical share certificate, a shareholder’s broker and/or clearing broker, the Depository Trust Company and our transfer agent will need to act to facilitate this request. It is our understanding that shareholders should generally allot at least two weeks to obtain physical certificates from the transfer agent. However, because we do not have any control over the process, it may take significantly longer than two weeks to obtain a physical share certificate and you may not be able to redeem your shares in time. While we have been advised that it takes a short time to deliver shares through the DWAC System, we cannot assure you of this fact. If it takes longer than we anticipate for shareholders to deliver their shares, shareholders who wish to exercise their redemption rights may be unable to meet the deadline for exercising their redemption rights and thus may be unable to redeem their shares. Because we must furnish our shareholders with audited financial statements of the target business prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, we may not be able to consummate a business combination with some prospective target businesses unless their financial statements are first reconciled to applicable accounting standards. The federal securities laws require that a business combination meeting certain financial significance tests include historical and pro forma financial statement disclosure in periodic reports, registration statements and other materials submitted to shareholders. Because our initial business combination must be with one or more target businesses whose fair market value, individually or collectively, is equal to at least to 80% of the balance in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of $1,022,833 and taxes payable) at the time of such acquisition, we will be required to provide historical and pro forma financial information to our shareholders in connection with their redemption rights pursuant to a business combination with one or more target businesses. These financial statements must be prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and the historical financial statements must be audited in accordance with the standards of the applicable oversight board. If a proposed target business, including one located outside of the United States, does not have or is unable to prepare financial statements that have been prepared and audited in accordance with applicable accounting standards, we will not be able to acquire that proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses with which we may combine. 27 We may qualify as a passive foreign investment company, or “PFIC,” which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. In general, we will be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (1) at least 75% of our gross income (looking through certain 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the average value of our assets (looking through certain 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) is attributable to assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. Passive income generally includes, without limitation, dividends, interest, rents, royalties, and gains from the disposition of passive assets. If we are determined to be a PFIC for any taxable year (or portion thereof) that is included in the holding period of a U.S. Holder (as defined in the section of this report captioned “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — General”) of our ordinary shares or redeemable warrants, the U.S. Holder may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. Because we believe that we had income in a prior taxable year (2010), and therefore that the PFIC start-up exception would not be available in our 2011 taxable year (see the section of this report captioned “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Company Rules”), and because we did not complete a business combination in our 2011 taxable year, we believe that it is likely that we will be treated as a PFIC for our 2011 taxable year. Our actual PFIC status for any subsequent taxable year, however, will not be determinable until after the end of such taxable year, although we do not plan to make annual determinations or otherwise notify U.S. Holders of our PFIC status. Accordingly, there can be no assurance with respect to our status as a PFIC for our 2012 taxable year or any subsequent taxable year. We urge U.S. investors to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. For a more detailed explanation of the tax consequences of PFIC classification to U.S. Holders, see the section of this report captioned “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” An investment in our ordinary shares may involve adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences because the redemption or liquidation price per share is greater than an investor’s initial tax basis in an ordinary share. Although we intend to take a contrary position, if our ordinary shares are not viewed as participating in our corporate growth (i.e., our future earnings or increases in our net asset values) to any significant extent (other than by reason of any “conversion” feature), due to our limited potential for corporate growth prior to a business combination, there is a risk that an investor’s entitlement to receive payments upon exercise of the investor’s redemption right or upon our liquidation in excess of the investor’s initial tax basis in our ordinary shares (see “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — Allocation of Purchase Price and Characterization of a Unit”) will result in constructive income to the investor. This could affect the timing and character of income recognition and result in U.S. federal income tax liability to the investor without the investor’s receipt of cash from us. Prospective investors are urged to consult their own tax advisors with respect to these tax risks, as well as the specific tax consequences to them of purchasing, holding or disposing of our ordinary shares, redeemable warrants, or units. Risks associated with acquiring and operating a target business in Greater China If we acquire control of a target business through contractual arrangements with one or more operating businesses in Greater China, such contracts may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of such business and may be difficult to enforce. We will only acquire a business or businesses that, upon the consummation of our initial business combination, will be our majority-owned subsidiaries and will be neither investment companies nor companies excluded from the definition of an investment company by Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. However, certain governments in Greater China (including the PRC) have restricted or limited foreign ownership of certain kinds of assets and companies operating in certain industries. The industry groups that are restricted are wide ranging, including, for example, certain aspects of telecommunications, food production, and heavy equipment manufacturers. In addition there can be restrictions on the foreign ownership of businesses that are determined from time to time to be in “important industries” that may affect the national economic security or having “famous brand names” or “well-established brand names.” Subject to the review and approval requirements of the relevant agencies for acquisitions of assets and companies in the relevant jurisdictions and subject to the various percentage ownership limitations that exist from time to time, acquisitions involving foreign investors and parties in the various restricted categories of assets and industries may nonetheless sometimes be consummated using contractual arrangements with permitted local parties. To the extent that such agreements are employed, they may be for control of specific assets such as intellectual property or control of blocks of the equity ownership interests of a company which may provide exceptions to the merger and acquisition regulations mentioned above since these types of arrangements typically do not involve a change of equity ownership in the operating company. The agreements would be designed to provide our company with the economic benefits of and control over the subject assets or equity interests similar to the rights of full ownership, while leaving the technical ownership in the hands of local parties who would be our nominees and, therefore, may exempt the transaction from certain regulations, including the application process required thereunder. 28 However, since there has been limited implementation guidance provided with respect to such regulations, the relevant government agency might apply them to a business combination effected through contractual arrangements. If such an agency determines that such an application should have been made or that our potential future target businesses are otherwise in violation of local laws or regulations, consequences may include confiscating relevant income and levying fines and other penalties, revoking business and other licenses, requiring restructure of ownership or operations, requiring discontinuation or restriction of the operations of any portion or all of the acquired business, restricting or prohibiting our use of the proceeds of our IPO to finance our businesses and operations and imposing conditions or requirements with which we or potential future target businesses may not be able to comply. These agreements likely also would provide for increased ownership or full ownership and control by us when and if permitted under local laws and regulations. If we choose to effect a business combination that employs the use of these types of control arrangements, we may have difficulty in enforcing our rights. Therefore, these contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with the same economic benefits, accounting consolidation or control over a target business as would direct ownership. For example, if the target business or any other entity fails to perform its obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend substantial resources to enforce such arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under local law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which we cannot assure will be sufficient to off-set the cost of enforcement and may adversely affect the benefits we expect to receive from the business combination. Contractual arrangements we enter into with potential future subsidiaries and affiliated entities or acquisitions of offshore entities that conduct operations through affiliates in Greater China may be subject to a high level of scrutiny by the relevant tax authorities. Under the laws of certain areas in Greater China (including the PRC), arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the relevant tax authorities. If any of the transactions we enter into with potential future subsidiaries and affiliated entities are found not to be on an arm’s-length basis, or to result in an unreasonable reduction in tax under local law, the relevant tax authorities may have the authority to disallow any tax savings, adjust the profits and losses of such potential future local entities and assess late payment interest and penalties. A finding by the relevant tax authorities that we are ineligible for any such tax savings, or that any of our possible future affiliated entities are not eligible for tax exemptions, would substantially increase our possible future taxes and thus reduce our net income and the value of a shareholder’s investment. In addition, in the event that in connection with an acquisition of an offshore entity that conducted its operations through affiliates in Greater China, the sellers of such entities failed to pay any taxes required under local law, the relevant tax authorities could require us to withhold and pay the tax, together with late-payment interest and penalties. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. If we effect our initial business combination with a business located in Greater China, the laws applicable to such business will likely govern all of our material agreements and we may not be able to enforce our legal rights. If we effect our initial business combination with a business located in Greater China, the laws of the country in which such business operates will govern almost all of the material agreements relating to its operations, including any contractual arrangements through which we acquire control of target business as described above. We cannot assure you that we or the target business will be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available in this new jurisdiction. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdiction may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. In addition, the judiciary of certain regions in Greater China is relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. In addition, to the extent that our target business’ material agreements are with governmental agencies in Greater China, we may not be able to enforce or obtain a remedy from such agencies due to sovereign immunity, in which the government is deemed to be immune from civil lawsuit or criminal prosecution. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. 29 If the government of the country finds that the agreements we entered into to acquire control of a target business through contractual arrangements with one or more operating businesses do not comply with local governmental restrictions on foreign investment, or if these regulations or the interpretation of existing regulations in a country change in the future, we could be subject to significant penalties or be forced to relinquish our interests in those operations. Certain governments in Greater China (including the PRC) currently prohibit or restrict foreign ownership in certain “important industries,” including telecommunications, food production and heavy equipment. There are uncertainties under certain regulations whether obtaining a majority interest through contractual arrangements will comply with regulations prohibiting or restricting foreign ownership in certain industries. For example, the PRC may apply restrictions in other industries in the future. In addition, there can be restrictions on the foreign ownership of businesses that are determined from time to time to be in “important industries” that may affect the national economic security or those having “famous brand names” or “well-established brand names.” If we or any of our potential future target businesses are found to be in violation of any existing or future local laws or regulations (for example, if we are deemed to be holding equity interests in certain of our affiliated entities in which direct foreign ownership is prohibited), the relevant regulatory authorities might have the discretion to: ·revoke the business and operating licenses of the potential future target business; ·confiscate relevant income and impose fines and other penalties; ·discontinue or restrict the operations of the potential future target business; ·require us or potential future target business to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; ·restrict or prohibit our use of the proceeds of our IPO to finance our businesses and operations in the relevant jurisdiction; or ·impose conditions or requirements with which we or potential future target business may not be able to comply. Exchange controls that exist in the PRC may limit our ability to utilize our cash flow effectively following a business combination. Following a business combination, we will be subject to the PRC’s rules and regulations on currency conversion. In the PRC, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) regulates the conversion of the Renminbi into foreign currencies. Currently, foreign investment enterprises (“FIEs”) are required to apply to the SAFE for “Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates for FIEs.” Under the PRC laws, FIE refers to a company incorporated in China with investments from non-PRC enterprises, organizations or individuals. The “FIEs” include the Sino-foreign equity joint venture (“EJV”), Sino-foreign cooperative joint venture (“CJV”) and wholly foreign-owned enterprise (“WFOE”) as regulated respectively by the Sino-foreign Equity Joint Venture Law (1979), as amended, the Sino-foreign Cooperative Joint Venture Law (1988), as amended, and the Wholly Foreign-Owned Enterprise Law (1986), as amended. Both the EJV and CJV are established with investments from PRC enterprises, organizations or individuals and non-PRC enterprises, organizations or individuals. The WFOE is established with investments solely from non-PRC enterprises, organizations or individuals. Both the EJV and the WFOE are limited liability companies, and a CJV is also usually a limited liability company unless contractual parties determine otherwise. Following a business combination, we will likely be an FIE as a result of our ownership structure. With such registration certificates, FIEs are allowed to open foreign currency accounts including a “current account” and “capital account.” Currency conversion within the scope of the “current account,” such as remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends, can be effected without requiring the approval of the SAFE. However, conversion of currency in the “capital account,” including capital items such as direct investment, loans and securities, still require approval of the SAFE. We cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose further restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. Any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use our cash flow for the distribution of dividends to our shareholders or to fund operations we may have outside of the PRC. 30 On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated a notice, or Circular 142, regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested enterprise of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. Circular 142 requires that the registered capital of a foreign-invested enterprise settled in Renminbi converted from foreign currencies may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC unless specifically provided for otherwise. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the registered capital of a foreign-invested enterprise settled in Renminbi converted from foreign currencies. The use of such Renminbi capital may not be changed without SAFE’s approval, and may not in any case be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used for purposes within the foreign-invested enterprise’s approved business scope. Violations of Circular 142 will result in severe penalties, including substantial fines as set forth in the PRC Foreign Exchange Administration Regulations. If relations between the United States and Greater China deteriorate, it could cause potential target businesses or their goods or services to become less attractive. The relationship between the United States and certain countries in Greater China is subject to sudden fluctuation and periodic tension. Relations may also be complicated if the United States becomes a more vocal advocate of Taiwan or proceeds to sell certain military weapons and technology to Taiwan. Changes in political conditions in China and changes in the state of relations with the United States are difficult to predict and could cause potential target businesses or their goods and services to become less attractive, resulting in it being less likely that we consummate a business combination. Because we are not limited to any specific industry, there is no basis for our shareholders to evaluate the possible extent of any impact on our ultimate operations if relations are strained between the United States and certain countries in Greater China. As a result of the M&A Rules, it is expected that acquisitions will take longer and be subject to economic scrutiny by the PRC government authorities such that we may not be able to complete a transaction. On August 8, 2006, the PRC’s Ministry of Commerce (“MOFCOM”), together with several other government agencies, promulgated the Provision on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rules, which took effect on September 8, 2006 and was amended on June 22, 2009, to more effectively regulate foreign investment in PRC domestic enterprises. The M&A Rules established, among other things, additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming, complex and uncertain, including but not limited to, the requirement in some instances that the approval of MOFCOM be obtained in advance when a foreign investor acquires equity or assets of a PRC domestic enterprise. Depending on the structure of the transaction, the M&A Rules will require the Chinese parties to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to the competent government agencies, some of which must be made within strict time limits and depending on approvals from one or the other of the government agencies. The application process has been supplemented to require the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, including appraisals of the business to be acquired and credit certification of the acquirer which will permit the government to assess the economics of a transaction in addition to the compliance with legal requirements. Moreover, acquisitions of Chinese domestic companies relating to “important industries” or affecting the national economic security or resulting in the transfer of “actual control” of companies having “famous Chinese brand names” or “well established Chinese brand names” must be reported and approved by MOFCOM and other relevant agencies. The M&A Rules also require offshore special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, formed for the purposes of overseas listing of equity interests in PRC companies and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals to obtain the approval of the China Securities Regulation Commission prior to the listing and trading of such SPV’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. We are a blank check company formed to acquire one or more operating businesses through a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase or similar business combination. Although our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association do not limit us to a particular geographic region, we intend to focus on operating businesses with primary operations in Greater China. When we evaluate a potential transaction in the PRC, we will consider the need to comply with these regulations which may result in our modifying or not pursuing a particular transaction. It is expected that compliance with the M&A Rules will be more time consuming than in the past, will be more costly and will permit the government much more extensive evaluation and control over the terms of the transaction. Therefore, the potential transaction in the PRC may not be able to be completed because the terms of the transaction may not satisfy aspects of the approval process and may not be completed even if approved. In extreme cases, the authorities could suspend or revoke the business license of the Chinese entities and cause an unwinding of the transaction. If the transaction was unwound, the consideration paid to the target business might be returned to us and we would then be forced to either attempt to complete a new business combination if it was prior to March 30, 2013 (assuming the period in which we need to consummate a business combination has been extended, as provided in our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association) or we would be required to return any amounts which were held in the trust account to our shareholders and dissolve and liquidate. 31 The M&A Rules set forth many requirements that have to be followed, but there are still many ambiguities in the meaning of many provisions. Although further regulations are anticipated in the future, until there has been clarification either by pronouncements, regulation or practice, there is some uncertainty in the scope of the regulations. Moreover, the ambiguities give the regulators wide latitude in the enforcement of the regulations and the transactions to which they may or may not apply. Therefore, we cannot predict the extent to which the regulations will apply to a transaction, and therefore, there may be uncertainty in whether or not a transaction will be completed until the approval process is under way or until the preliminary approvals are obtained. Because the M&A Rules permit the government agencies to have scrutiny over the economics of an acquisition transaction and require consideration in a transaction to be paid within stated time limits, we may not be able to negotiate a transaction that is acceptable to our shareholders or sufficiently protect their interests in a transaction. The M&A Rules have introduced aspects of economic and substantive analysis of the target business and the acquirer and the terms of the transaction by MOFCOM and the other governing agencies through submissions of an appraisal report and the acquisition agreement, all of which form part of the application for approval, depending on the structure of the transaction. The M&A Rules also prohibit a transaction at an acquisition price obviously lower than the appraised value of the Chinese business or assets. The M&A Rules require that in certain transaction structures, the consideration must be paid within strict time periods. Because the Chinese authorities have been unhappy with offshore flips which converted domestic companies into FIEs in order to take advantage of certain benefits, including reduced taxation, in the PRC, the M&A Rules require foreign sourced capital of not less than 25% of the domestic company’s post-acquisition capital in order to obtain FIE treatment. In asset transactions there must be no harm of third parties and the public interest in the allocation of assets and liabilities being assumed or acquired. These aspects of the M&A Rules will limit our ability to negotiate various terms of the acquisition, including aspects of the initial consideration, contingent consideration, holdback provisions, indemnification provisions and provisions relating to the assumption and allocation of assets and liabilities. Transaction structures involving trusts, nominees and similar entities are prohibited with respect to the acquisitions among related parties. Therefore, we may not be able to negotiate a transaction with terms that will satisfy our investors and protect our shareholders interests in an acquisition of a Chinese business or assets. Compliance with the PRC Antitrust Law may limit our ability to effect a business combination. The PRC Antitrust Law was promulgated on August 30, 2007 and became effective on August 1, 2008. The government authorities in charge of antitrust matters in China are the Antitrust Commission and other antitrust authorities under the State Council. The PRC Antitrust Law regulates (i) monopoly agreements, including decisions or actions in concert that preclude or impede competition, entered into by business operators; (ii) abuse of dominant market position by business operators; and (iii) concentration of business operators that may have the effect of precluding or impeding competition. The concentration of business operators refers to (i) merger with other business operators; (ii) gaining control over other business operators through acquisition of equity interest or assets of other business operators; and (iii) gaining control over other business operators through exerting influence on other business operators through contracts or other means. We are a blank check company formed to acquire one or more operating businesses through a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase or similar business combination. The business combination we contemplate may be considered the concentration of business operators, and to the extent required by the Antitrust Law, we must file with the antitrust authority under the PRC State Council prior to conducting the contemplated business combination. If the antitrust authority decides not to further investigate whether the contemplated business combination has the effect of precluding or impeding competition or fails to make a decision within 30 days from receipt of relevant materials, we may proceed to consummate the contemplated business combination. If antitrust authority decides to prohibit the contemplated business combination after further investigation, we must terminate such business combination and would then be forced to either attempt to complete a new business combination if it was prior to March 30, 2013 (assuming the period in which we need to consummate a business combination has been extended, as provided in our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association) or we would be required to return any amounts which were held in the trust account to our shareholders and dissolve and liquidate. When we evaluate a potential business combination transaction, we will consider the need to comply with the Antitrust Law and other relevant regulations which may limit our ability to effect an acquisition or may result in our modifying or not pursuing a particular transaction. 32 The MIIT issued regulations that regulate and limit ownership and investment in internet and other value-added telecommunications businesses in the PRC, which may limit the type of businesses we will be able to acquire. On July 13, 2006, the PRC’s Ministry of Information Industry (now known as the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or MIIT), issued a notice with the purpose of increasing the regulation of foreign investment in and operations of value added telecom services which includes internet and telecommunications businesses in the PRC. The regulations require Chinese entities to own and control the following: (i) internet domain names, (ii) registered trademarks, and (iii) servers and other infrastructure equipment used to host and operate web-sites and conduct business. The ownership requirements functionally limit foreign direct and indirect ownership and control of the intellectual property of these businesses even when attempted through various parallel control, licensing, use and management agreements. It is anticipated that these regulations will be strictly enforced, and it is provided that such regulations apply retroactively and provide for audit procedures. The failure to comply may cause the MIIT to terminate a telecommunications license. Any anticipated foreign investment in such businesses will be subject to prior approval by the MIIT, and it is expected that approval for investment may not be easily obtained for foreign investment in these businesses unless in strict compliance. Therefore, investment by us in this sector may not be actively pursued because certain assets may not be acquirable and accounting consolidation may be restricted or not permitted. If the PRC imposes restrictions to reduce inflation, future economic growth in the PRC could be severely curtailed, which could materially and adversely impact our profitability following a business combination. While the economy of the PRC has experienced rapid growth, this growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the supply of money and rising inflation. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. Imposition of similar restrictions may lead to a slowing of economic growth and decrease the interest in the services or products we may ultimately offer leading to a material and adverse impact on our profitability. Any devaluation of currencies used in the PRC could negatively impact our target business’ results of operations and any appreciation thereof could cause the cost of a target business as measured in dollars to increase. Because our objective is to complete a business combination with a target business likely to have its primary operating facilities located in the PRC, and because substantially all revenues and income following a business combination would be received in a foreign currency such as Renminbi, the main currency used in the PRC, the dollar equivalent of our net assets and distributions, if any, would be adversely affected by reductions in the value of the Renminbi. The value of the Renminbi fluctuates and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC’s political and economic conditions. To the extent that we need to convert United States dollars into Chinese Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of this currency against the United States dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into United States dollars for other business purposes and the United States dollar appreciates against this currency, the United States dollar equivalent of the Renminbi we convert would be reduced. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies such as the United States dollar has been generally based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China, which are set daily based on the previous day’s interbank foreign exchange market rates and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. Historically, the PRC “pegged” its currency to the United States dollar. This meant that each unit of Chinese currency had a set ratio for which it could be exchanged for United States currency, as opposed to having a floating value like other countries’ currencies. Many countries argued that this system of keeping the Chinese currency low when compared to other countries gave Chinese companies an unfair price advantage over foreign companies. Due to mounting pressure from other countries, the PRC recently reformed its economic policies and adopted a floating rate with respect to the Renminbi. Since July 21, 2005, the Renminbi has been pegged to a basket of currencies and permitted to fluctuate within a managed band. This floating exchange rate, and any appreciation of the Renminbi that may result from such rate, could cause the cost of a target business as measured in dollars to increase. Further, target companies may be adversely affected since the competitive advantages that existed as a result of the former policies will cease. We cannot assure you that a target business with which we consummate a business combination will be able to compete effectively with the new policies in place. 33 If the PRC enacts regulations in our target business’ proposed industry segments that forbid or restrict foreign investment, or if the interpretation and implementation of such existing laws changes, our ability to consummate a business combination could be severely impaired. Many of the rules and regulations that companies face in the PRC are not explicitly communicated. If new laws or regulations forbid foreign investment in industries in which we want to complete a business combination, they could severely limit the candidate pool of potential target businesses. Additionally, if the relevant Chinese authorities find us or the target business with which we ultimately complete a business combination to be in violation of any existing or future Chinese laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: ·levying fines; ·revoking our business and other licenses; ·requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; ·prohibiting possible future PRC subsidiaries or afficiates from returning the investments and profits abroad; and ·requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business. The imposition of any of the above penalties could result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business as well as our financial situation and we might be forced to relinquish our interests in operations. In many cases, existing regulations with regard to investments from foreign investors and domestic private capital lack detailed explanations and operational procedures, and are subject to interpretation, which may change over time. We thus cannot be certain how the regulations will be applied to our business, either currently or in the future. Moreover, new regulations may be adopted or the interpretation of existing regulations may change, any of which could result in similar penalties, resulting in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business as well as on our financial situation. Recent regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that may limit or adversely effect our ability to acquire PRC companies. SAFE issued a public notice on October 21, 2005 titled “Notice on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Administration for PRC Residents to Engage in Financing and Return Investments via Overseas Special Purpose Vehicles,” or Circular 75, requiring PRC residents, including both legal persons and natural persons, to register with an appropriate local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China, referred to as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of acquiring any assets of or equity interest in PRC companies and raising fund from overseas. When a PRC resident contributes the assets or equity interests it holds in a PRC company into the offshore special purpose company, or engages in overseas financing after contributing such assets or equity interests into the offshore special purpose company, such PRC resident shall modify its SAFE registration in light of its interest in the offshore special purpose company and any change thereof. In addition, any PRC resident that is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend its SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch, with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, long-term equity investment or creation of any security interest. To further clarify the implementation of Circular 75, SAFE issued Circular 106 on May 29, 2007. Under Circular 106, PRC subsidiaries of an offshore special purpose company are required to coordinate and supervise the filing in a timely manner of SAFE registrations by the offshore holding company’s shareholders who are PRC residents. If these shareholders fail to comply, the PRC subsidiaries can report to the local SAFE authorities to be exempted from liabilities. Failure to comply with the above SAFE registration requirements, the PRC subsidiaries may be prohibited from distributing their profits and proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to their offshore parent company and the offshore parent company may be restricted in its ability to contribute additional capital into its PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the above SAFE registration could result in liabilities under PRC laws for evasion of foreign exchange restrictions. We are committed to complying with the relevant rules. As a result of the foregoing, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of the target business we intend to acquire, as the case may be, will be able to complete the necessary approval, filings and registrations for a proposed business combination. This may restrict our ability to implement our business combination strategy and adversely affect our operations. 34 If our management following a business combination is unfamiliar with United States securities laws, they may have to expend time and resources becoming familiar with such laws, which could lead to various regulatory issues. Following a business combination, our management may resign from their positions as officers of the company and the management of the target business at the time of the business combination will remain in place. We cannot assure you that management of the target business will be familiar with United States securities laws. If new management is unfamiliar with our laws, they may have to expend time and resources becoming familiar with such laws. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues, which may adversely affect our operations. Because any target business with which we attempt to complete a business combination may be required to provide our shareholders with financial statements prepared in accordance with and reconciled to United States generally accepted accounting principles, prospective target businesses may be limited. In connection with providing our shareholders with their redemption rights pursuant to our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association in connection with a business combination, we will provide our public shareholders with a prospectus/proxy solicitation or tender offer materials which include information regarding a proposed target company that comply with requirements of United States Federal securities laws in connection with a proxy solicitation, including certain financial statements that are prepared in accordance with, or that can be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and audited in accordance with U.S. generally accepted auditing standards. To the extent that a proposed target business does not have financial statements that have been prepared with, or that can be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and audited in accordance with U.S. generally accepted auditing standards, we may not be able to complete a business combination with that proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses with which we may complete a business combination. Furthermore, to the extent that we seek to acquire a target business that does not have financial statements prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, it could make it more difficult for our management to analyze such target business and determine whether it has a fair market value in excess of 80% of our net assets. It could also delay our preparation of our proxy materials and/or tender offer materials that we will send to shareholders relating to the proposed business combination with such a target business, thereby making it more difficult for us to consummate such a business combination. If we consummate a business combination with a PRC subsidiary, our operating company in Greater China may be subject to restrictions on dividend payments. If we consummate a business combination with a PRC subsidiary, we will rely on dividends and other distributions from our operating company to provide us with cash flow and to meet our other obligations. Current regulations in the PRC would permit an operating company in the PRC to pay dividends to us only out of its accumulated distributable profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, an operating company as a wholly foreign-owned enterprise in the PRC will be required to set aside at least 10% (up to an aggregate amount equal to half of its registered capital) of its accumulated profits each year. Such reserve account may not be distributed as cash dividends. In addition, if an operating company in the PRC incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. 35 The PRC government has enacted a law on enterprise income tax, and as it implements this law the tax and fee benefits provided to foreign investors and companies to encourage development within the country may be reduced or removed, resulting in expenses which may impact margins and net income. On March 16, 2007, the PRC’s National People’s Congress approved and promulgated the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law (the “EIT Law”). The EIT Law took effect on January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law, foreign investment enterprises, or FIEs, and domestic companies are subject to a uniform tax rate of 25%. The EIT Law provides a five-year transition period starting from its effective date for those enterprises which were established before the promulgation date of the EIT Law and which were entitled to a preferential lower tax rate under the then-effective tax laws or regulations. On December 26, 2007, the PRC State Council issued a Notice on Implementing Transitional Measures for Enterprise Income Tax, providing that the enterprises that have been approved to enjoy a low tax rate prior to the promulgation of the EIT Law will be eligible for a five-year transition period since January 1, 2008, during which time the tax rate will be increased step by step to the 25% unified tax rate set out in the EIT Law. From January 1, 2008, for the enterprises whose applicable tax rate was 15% before the promulgation of the EIT Law, the tax rate will be increased to 18% for year 2008, 20% for year 2009, 22% for year 2010, 24% for year 2011, and 25% for year 2012. For the enterprises whose applicable tax rate was 24%, the tax rate was changed to 25% from January 1, 2008. For those enterprises which are enjoying tax holidays, such tax holidays may continue until their expiration, but where the tax holiday has not yet started because of losses, such tax holiday shall be deemed to commence from the first effective year of the EIT Law. While the EIT Law equalizes the tax rates for FIEs and domestic companies, preferential tax treatment would continue to be given to companies in certain encouraged sectors and to entities classified as high-technology companies supported by the PRC government, whether FIEs or domestic companies. According to the EIT Law, entities that qualify as high-technology companies especially supported by the PRC government are expected to benefit from a tax rate of 15% as compared to the uniform tax rate of 25%. Nevertheless, there can be no assurances that any particular company will continue to qualify as a high technology company supported by the PRC government in the future, and benefit from such preferential tax rate. Following the effectiveness of the EIT Law, a company’s effective tax rate may increase, unless it is otherwise eligible for preferential treatment. Any increase in our or any PRC subsidiary’s tax rate in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to Chinese corporate withholding taxes in respect of dividends we may receive following a business combination. In accordance with the EIT Law and its implementing rules, dividends payable by a FIE to its foreign (non-PRC resident) investors that are non-resident enterprises will be subject to a 10% withholding tax if such foreign investors do not have any establishment or place of business within China or if the dividends payable have no connection with the establishment or place of business of such foreign investors within China, to the extent that the dividends are deemed China-sourced income, unless such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with the PRC that provides for a different withholding arrangement. As a result, following a business combination, any of our subsidiaries operating in China will be required to deduct Chinese withholding taxes from dividends distributed to us as the parent entity (unless we are deemed to be a PRC resident enterprise), meaning that we would have less funds to use in connection with our operations as the parent entity or for distribution to our shareholders. Under PRC laws, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to a high level of scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities. Under PRC laws, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. Under the Regulation on the Implementation of the Enterprise Income Tax Law of the PRC, the “related party” means the enterprises, other organizations or individuals that have any of the following relations with an enterprise: ·direct or indirect control relationship with respect to capital, management, sale or purchase, etc.; ·directly or indirectly controlled by a common third-party; ·any other relationship of interest. If any of the transactions we enter into with possible future subsidiaries and affiliated entities are found not to be on an arm’s-length basis, or to result in an unreasonable reduction in tax under PRC law, the PRC tax authorities have the authority to disallow any tax savings, adjust the profits and losses of such possible future PRC entities and assess late payment interest and penalties. A finding by the PRC tax authorities that we are ineligible for any such tax savings, or that any of our possible future affiliated entities are not eligible for tax exemptions, would substantially increase our possible future taxes and thus reduce our net income and the value of your investment. 36 Under the EIT Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of the PRC for tax purposes and may be subject to PRC income tax on our taxable global income. Under the EIT Law, enterprises are classified as resident enterprises and non-resident enterprises. An enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define “de facto management bodies” as a managing body that in practice exercises “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise; however, it remains unclear whether the PRC tax authorities would deem our managing body as being located within China. Due to the short history of the EIT Law and lack of applicable legal precedents, the PRC tax authorities determine the PRC tax resident treatment of a foreign (non-PRC) company on a case-by-case basis. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income, as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Second, under the EIT Law and its implementing rules, dividends paid between “qualified resident enterprises” are exempt from enterprise income tax. It is unclear whether dividends we receive from any subsidiaries operating in China will constitute dividends between “qualified resident enterprises” and would therefore qualify for tax exemption, because the definition of “qualified resident enterprises” is unclear and the relevant PRC government authorities have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. If we are required to pay income tax on any dividends we receive from any subsidiaries operating in China, the amount of dividends we could pay to our shareholders would be materially reduced. Dividends payable by us to our foreign (non-PRC resident) investors and any gain derived by them on the sale or transfer of our ordinary shares or redeemable warrants may be subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. If we are determined to be a resident enterprise under the EIT Law, dividends payable by us to (or gains realized by) investors that are not tax residents of the PRC (“non-resident investors”) should be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC. In such event, the dividends that non-resident investors receive from us and any such gain derived by such investors on the sale or transfer of our ordinary shares or redeemable warrants should be subject to income tax under the PRC tax laws. Under the EIT Law and its implementing rules, PRC withholding tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable to non-resident investors that are enterprises (but not individuals) which (i) do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC or (ii) have an establishment or place of business in the PRC but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent that such dividends are deemed to be sourced within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of our ordinary shares or redeemable warrants by such investors is also subject to 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. Under the PRC Individual Income Tax Law and its implementing rules, a 20% PRC withholding tax is applicable to dividends payable to non-resident investors who are individuals, to the extent that such dividends are deemed to be sourced within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of our ordinary shares or redeemable warrants by such investors is subject to a 20% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. Under the PRC tax laws, we would not have an obligation to withhold PRC income tax in respect of gains that non-resident investors may realize from the sale or transfer of our ordinary shares or redeemable warrants (regardless of whether such gains would be regarded as income from sources within the PRC), but we would have an obligation to withhold PRC income tax at the applicable rate described above (subject to reduction by applicable tax treaties) on dividends that non-resident investors receive from us if such dividends are regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. If we are required under the PRC tax laws to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-resident investors, or if such investors are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or redeemable warrants under the circumstances mentioned above, the value of their investment in our shares or redeemable warrants may be materially and adversely affected. 37 If any such PRC tax applies, a non-PRC resident investor may be entitled to a reduced rate of PRC tax under an applicable income tax treaty and/or a deduction against such investor’s domestic taxable income or a foreign tax credit against such investor’s domestic income tax liability (subject to applicable conditions and limitations). In the case of a U.S. Holder (as defined in the section of this report captioned “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — General”), if a PRC tax applies to dividends paid on our ordinary shares, or to gain from the disposition of our ordinary shares or redeemable warrants, such tax should be treated as a foreign tax eligible for a deduction from such holder’s U.S. federal taxable income or a foreign tax credit against such holder’s U.S. federal income tax liability (subject to applicable conditions and limitations). In addition, the U.S. Holder should be entitled to certain benefits under the Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the People’s Republic of China for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Tax Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income (the “U.S.-PRC Tax Treaty”), including a possible reduction in PRC withholding tax on any such dividend income in the case of an individual U.S. Holder and/or the treatment of any such income or gain as arising in the PRC for purposes of calculating such foreign tax credit, if such holder is considered a resident of the United States for the purposes of, and otherwise meets the requirements of, the U.S.-PRC Tax Treaty. Prospective investors should consult with their own tax advisors regarding the applicability of any such taxes, the effects of any applicable income tax treaties, and any available deductions or foreign tax credits. For a further discussion of these issues, see the section of this report captioned “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation.” 