ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSWe may be required to make increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off loans in the future. Further, our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio.For 2013, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $982,000 compared to a provision for loan losses of $3.5 million in 2012 and $5.7 million in 2011. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $623,000 in 2013 compared to net loan charge-offs of $4.4 million in 2012 and $6.1 million in 2011. Our non-performing assets decreased to $15.0 million, or 1.4% of total assets and 10.4% of Tier 1 Bank capital, at December 31, 2013 from $25.6 million, or 2.4% of total assets and 18.3% of Tier 1 Bank capital, at December 31, 2012. Additionally, at December 31, 2013, loans that were criticized and classified as either special mention, substandard, doubtful or loss totaled $25.9 million, representing 2.3% of total assets, including nonaccruing loans of $8.8 million. Our level of nonperforming loans is primarily due to economic factors such as the level of unemployment and a soft real estate market. If the economy and/or the real estate market weakens, more of our criticized and classified loans may become nonperforming and we may be required to add further reserves to our allowance for loan losses for these assets as the value of the collateral may be insufficient to pay any remaining net loan balance, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results.In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth and seasoning of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume of and trends in our nonperforming, delinquent and criticized and classified loans. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. Finally, we also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, anticipated duration of the current business cycle, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are, by nature, more subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers' abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges, the effect of the current and future economic conditions on collateral values and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates.Our regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by our regulators, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Assets acquired through foreclosure are carried at values which may not be realized at the ultimate disposition of the underlying assets.We had assets acquired through foreclosure of $6.3 million and $8.5 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. For 2013, we recorded assets acquired through foreclosure expense of $5.2 million compared to $2.1 million in 2012 and $762,000 in 2011, which includes valuation adjustments of $5.0 million, $1.9 million and $657,000 for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Assets acquired through foreclosure is comprised of other real estate owned and financial assets acquired from debtors. Other real estate owned is initially recorded at fair value less costs to sell. In periods subsequent to acquisition, each real estate asset is carried at the lower of the fair value of the asset, less estimated selling costs, or the amount at which the asset was initially recorded. The fair value of other real estate owned is determined using appraisals obtained from approved independent appraisers or agreements of sale, where applicable. Financial assets acquired from debtors are carried at fair value as determined by agreements of sale or valuations obtained from a third party valuation firm who utilized a discounted cash flow model. We believe that our valuation of assets acquired through foreclosure is appropriate as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, we may not recover the respective carrying values at the time of ultimate disposition of the assets, which could result in a loss on the sale of assets acquired through foreclosure, and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our emphasis on commercial lending may expose us to increased lending risks.At December 31, 2013, $576.4 million, or 78.7%, of our loan portfolio consisted of multi-family and commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans. These types of loans have historically exposed us to greater risk of non-payment and loss and require a commensurately higher loan loss allowance than residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the business and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential mortgage loans. Also, many of our multi-family and commercial real estate and commercial business borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, 15Table of Contentsan adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a residential mortgage loan. Further, unlike residential mortgages or multi-family and commercial real estate loans, commercial and industrial loans may be secured by collateral other than real estate, such as inventory and accounts receivable, the value of which may be more difficult to appraise and may be more susceptible to fluctuation in value at default.The unseasoned nature of our commercial loan portfolio may result in changes in estimating collectability, which may lead to additional provisions or charge-offs, which could hurt our profits. Our multi-family and commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loan portfolios increased $383.4 million, or 198.7%, from $192.9 million at December 31, 2008 to $576.4 million at December 31, 2013. Accordingly, a large portion of our commercial loan portfolio remains unseasoned and does not provide us with a significant payment history pattern from which to judge future collectability, especially in this period of unfavorable economic conditions. As a result, it may be difficult to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience, which could adversely affect our future performance. Further, these types of loans generally have larger balances and involve a greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectability of our commercial loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred historically with our residential mortgage loan or consumer loan portfolios.Our residential mortgage loans and home equity loans expose us to a risk of loss due to recent declines in real estate values.At December 31, 2013, $127.5 million, or 17.4%, of our loan portfolio consisted of one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, and $22.5 million, or 3.1%, of our loan portfolio consisted of home equity loans, home equity lines of credit and other consumer loans. Recent declines in the housing market resulted in declines in real estate values in our market areas. These declines in real estate values may have caused some of our mortgage and home equity loans to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss if we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral. Because of our locations in southern New Jersey, many of the properties securing our residential mortgages are second homes or rental properties. At December 31, 2013, 21.0% of our one- to four-family mortgage loans were secured by second homes and 9.1% were secured by rental properties. These loans generally are considered to be more risky than loans secured by the borrower's permanent residence, since the borrower is typically more dependent on rental income to meet debt service requirements, in the case of rental property, and when in financial difficulty is more likely to make payments on the loan secured by the borrower's primary residence before a vacation home.Our construction loan portfolio may expose us to increased credit risk.At December 31, 2013, our construction loan portfolio totaled $5.9 million. In general, construction projects provide for an interest reserve that is utilized to pay the interest for a period of time until the project is expected to produce positive cash flows. It is possible that construction loan borrowers fully utilize their interest reserve before the project is able to generate cash flows. If a borrower has insufficient liquidity to pay interest on such projects, the loan could become impaired and require an increase in the allowance for loan losses, which would adversely impact our results of operations. Our ability to work with a borrower to modify or restructure their existing loan to avoid loss lessens as the loan approaches its maturity date.Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely upon whether our initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction equals or exceeds the cost of the property construction (including interest), the availability of permanent financing and the builder’s ability to ultimately sell the property. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays and cost overruns. If estimates of value are inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing the loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan or by seizure of collateral.Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our earnings.Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investments less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our interest rate spread is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our interest rate spread and, as a result, our net interest income and net interest margin. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. As of December 31, 2013, our models indicate that we are slightly liability sensitive indicating that our liabilities will tend to reprice faster than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to change in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, the yield we earn on assets may rise slower than our funding costs, causing our net interest margin to contract. This contraction could be more severe following a prolonged period of lower interest rates, as a larger proportion of our fixed-rate residential loan portfolio and fixed-rate residential related mortgage backed securities will have been originated at those lower rates and borrowers may be more reluctant to refinance or unable to sell their homes in a higher interest rate environment.16Table of ContentsChanges in the slope of the "yield curve"—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to reprice faster than our assets, when the yield curve rises, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. Changes in interest rates also can affect: (1) our ability to originate loans; (2) the value of our interest-earning assets, and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; (3) our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and (4) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans.Our procedures for managing interest rate risk exposure also involves monitoring exposure to interest rate increases and decreases of as much as 300 basis points. We report on a quarterly basis the impact on net portfolio value of an immediate and parallel increase of up 300 basis points in interest rates or a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates. As of December 31, 2013, the simulations indicated that the impact of an instantaneous and parallel 300 basis point increase in rates would result in approximately 21% decrease in net portfolio value and that the impact of an instantaneous and parallel 100 basis point decrease in rates over 12 months would result in approximately 5% increase in net portfolio value.Increases in mortgage interest rates could have a material adverse effect on stockholders’ equity.At December 31, 2013, we held mortgage related securities available-for-sale with an amortized cost of $253.0 million and a fair value of $246.1 million, resulting in a net unrealized loss of $6.9 million. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, unrealized gains and temporary unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities are classified as accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, and represent an adjustment to the Company’s stockholders’ equity. At December 31, 2013, the Company’s accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, was $4.4 million. The fair value of mortgage related securities tends to increase or decrease based on changes in mortgage interest rates. As mortgage rates decrease, fair value tends to increase and as mortgage rates increase fair value tends to decrease. Increases in mortgage rates could adversely affect the fair value of our mortgage related securities which would reduce our stockholders’ equity.If we conclude that the decline in value of any of our investment securities is other than temporary, we are required to write down the value of that security, which could hurt our financial conditions and results of operation.We review individual securities in our investment portfolio quarterly to determine whether the fair value is below the current carrying value. When the fair value of any of our investment securities has declined below its carrying value, we are required to assess whether the decline is other than temporary. If the decline in the market value of a security is determined to be other-than-temporary, the credit portion of the impairment is written down through earnings and the non-credit portion is an adjustment to other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2013, our investment portfolio included securities with an amortized cost of $331.8 million and an estimated fair value of $324.0 million. Additionally, as of December 31, 2013, $248.9 million of securities had unrealized losses of $11.0 million. Changes in the expected cash flows of these securities and/or prolonged price declines may result in our concluding in future periods that the impairment of these securities is other than temporary, which would require a charge to earnings to write down these securities to their fair value. Any charges for other-than-temporary impairment would not impact cash flows, tangible capital or liquidity.Negative developments in the financial industry, the domestic and international credit markets, and the economy in general pose significant challenges for our industry and us and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Negative developments that began in the latter half of 2007 and that have continued since then in the global credit and securitization markets have resulted in unprecedented volatility and disruption in the financial markets, a general economic downturn and a tepid economic recovery, both nationally and in our primary markets in Pennsylvania and New Jersey. As a result, commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances deteriorated at many institutions, and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. As a result, we may face the following risks:•economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job market may cause the credit quality of our loan portfolios to deteriorate; •market developments that affect consumer confidence may cause adverse changes in payment patterns by our customers, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities; •the assumptions that we use to estimate our allowance for loan losses and reserves may no longer be reliable because they rely on judgments; •the value of our securities portfolio may decline; and •we face increased regulation of our industry, and the costs of compliance with such regulation may increase. 17Table of ContentsThese conditions or similar ones may continue to persist or worsen, causing us to experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Strong competition within our market areas could reduce our profits.We face intense competition in making loans, attracting deposits and attracting and retaining key employees. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer lower rates on loans and increase rates on deposits, which negatively impacts net interest income. It has also made it more difficult and costly to attract and hire employees with the level of expertise we require to implement our strategic plan. Additional compensation expense increases noninterest expense, reducing net income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. At June 30, 2013, which is the most recent date for which data is available from the FDIC, we held less than 1% of total deposits in counties where our offices are located. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. Additionally, we expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market areas.Regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Act”) was passed , which imposes significant regulatory and compliance changes. The key effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business are:•changes to regulatory capital requirements; •creation of new government regulatory agencies (such as the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which oversees systemic risk, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which develops and enforces rules for bank and non-bank providers of consumer financial products);•potential limitations on federal preemption; •changes to deposit insurance assessments; •regulation of debit interchange fees we earn;•changes in retail banking regulations, including potential limitations on certain fees we may charge; and•changes in regulation of consumer mortgage loan origination and risk retention. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act restricts the ability of banks to engage in certain proprietary trading or to sponsor or invest in private equity or hedge funds. The Dodd-Frank Act also contains provisions designed to limit the ability of insured depository institutions, their holding companies and their affiliates to conduct certain swaps and derivatives activities and to take certain principal positions in financial instruments. Some provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective immediately upon its enactment. Many provisions, however, will require regulations to be promulgated by various federal agencies to be implemented, some but not all of which have been proposed or finalized by the applicable federal agencies. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may have unintended effects, which will not be clear until after implementation. Certain changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with the new requirements may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse.In addition to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal regulatory agencies recently have begun to take stronger supervisory actions against financial institutions that have experienced increased loan losses and other weaknesses as a result of the recent economic crisis. The actions include the entering into written agreements and cease and desist orders that place certain limitations on their operations. Federal bank regulators recently have also been using with more frequency their ability to impose individual minimal capital requirements on banks, which requirements may be higher than those imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act or which would otherwise qualify the bank as being "well capitalized" under the prompt corrective action regulations. If we were to become subject to a supervisory agreement or higher capital requirements, such action may have a negative impact on our ability to execute our business plan, as well as our ability to grow, pay dividends, repurchase treasury stock or engage in mergers and acquisitions and may result in restrictions in our operations.We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations.We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board, the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Securities, and the FDIC. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and18Table of Contentsborrowers of Fox Chase Bank rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations.We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers, and systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is highly dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers. We outsource many of our major systems, such as data processing, loan servicing and deposit processing systems. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to process new and renewal loans, gather deposits and provide customer service, compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we provide our customers the ability to bank remotely, including online over the Internet. The secure transmission of confidential information is a critical element of remote banking. Our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes, spam attacks, human error, natural disasters, power loss and other security breaches. We may be required to spend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. Further, we outsource some of the data processing functions used for remote banking, and accordingly we are dependent on the expertise and performance of our third-party providers. To the extent that our activities, the activities of our customers, or the activities of our third-party service providers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and could adversely affect our reputation, results of operations and ability to attract and maintain customers and businesses. In addition, a security breach could also subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability and cause reputational damage. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.