ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our nonperforming loans remain elevated and we may be required to make increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future. Further, our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. For 2012, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $3.5 million compared to a provision for loan losses of $5.7 million in 2011 and $6.2 million in 2010. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $4.4 million in 2012 compared to net loan charge-offs of $6.1 million in 2011 and $4.4 million in 2010. Our non-performing assets increased to $25.6 million, or 2.36% of total assets and 18.3% of Tier 1 capital, at December 31, 2012 from $23.4 million, or 2.30% of total assets and 15.1% of Tier 1 capital, at December 31, 2011. Additionally, at December 31, 2012, loans that were criticized and classified as either special mention, substandard, doubtful or loss totaled $37.4 million, representing 3.4% of total assets, including nonaccrual loans of $17.1 million. Our elevated level of nonperforming loans was primarily due to the weakened economy, elevated unemployment and the soft real estate market. If the economy and/or the real estate market continues to weaken, more of our criticized and classified loans may become nonperforming and we may be required to add further reserves to our allowance for loan losses for these assets as the value of the collateral may be insufficient to pay any remaining net loan balance, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume of and trends in our nonperforming, delinquent and criticized and classified loans. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. Finally, we also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, anticipated duration of the current business cycle, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are, by nature, more subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers' abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges, the effect of the current and future economic conditions on collateral values and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates. Our regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by our regulators, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Assets acquired through foreclosure are carried at values which may not be realized at the ultimate disposition of the underlying assets. The Company had assets acquired through foreclosure of $8.5 million and $2.4 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. For 2012, we recorded assets acquired through foreclosure expense of $2.1 million compared to $762,000 in 2011 and $543,000 in 2010, which includes valuation 21 Table of Contents adjustments of $1.9 million, $657,000 and $436,000 for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Assets acquired through foreclosure is comprised of other real estate owned and financial assets acquired from debtors. Other real estate owned is carried at the lower of cost or fair value, less estimated selling costs. The fair value of other real estate owned is determined using appraisals obtained from approved independent appraisers or agreements of sale, where applicable. Financial assets acquired from debtors are carried at fair value as determined using valuations obtained from a third party valuation firm who utilize a discounted cash flow model. We believe that our valuation of assets acquired through foreclosure is appropriate as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, we may not recover the respective carrying values at the time of ultimate disposition of the assets, which could result in a loss on the sale of assets acquired through foreclosure, and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A return to recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of nonperforming assets and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which would lead to lower revenue, higher loan losses and lower earnings. Following a national home price peak in mid-2006, falling home prices and sharply reduced sales volumes, along with the collapse of the United States' subprime mortgage industry in early 2007, significantly contributed to a recession that officially lasted until June 2009, although the effects continued thereafter. Dramatic declines in real estate values and high levels of foreclosures resulted in significant asset write-downs by financial institutions, which have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with other institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Concerns over the United States' credit rating (which was downgraded by Standard & Poor's), the European sovereign debt crisis, and continued high unemployment in the United States, among other economic indicators, have contributed to increased volatility in the capital markets and diminished expectations for the economy. A return of recessionary conditions and/or continued negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further declines in real estate values and sales volumes and continued elevated unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies, increases in our levels of nonperforming and criticized classified assets and a decline in demand for our products and services. These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity and financial condition. Our emphasis on commercial lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2012, $482.8 million, or 69.5%, of our loan portfolio consisted of multi-family and commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans. These types of loans have historically exposed a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss and require a commensurately higher loan loss allowance than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the business and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of our multi-family and commercial real estate and commercial business borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Further, unlike one- to four-family real estate loans or multi-family and commercial real estate loans, commercial and industrial loans may be secured by collateral other than real estate, such as inventory and accounts receivable, the value of which may be more difficult to appraise and may be more susceptible to fluctuation in value. 22 Table of Contents The unseasoned nature of our commercial loan portfolio may result in changes in estimating collectability, which may lead to additional provisions or charge-offs, which could hurt our profits. Our multi-family and commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loan portfolios increased $373.2 million, or 340.5%, from $109.6 million at December 31, 2007 to $482.8 million at December 31, 2012. A large portion of our commercial loan portfolio remains unseasoned and does not provide us with a significant payment history pattern from which to judge future collectability, especially in this period of unfavorable economic conditions. As a result, it may be difficult to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience, which could adversely affect our future performance. Further, these types of loans generally have larger balances and involve a greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectability of our commercial loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred historically with our residential mortgage loan or consumer loan portfolios. Our residential mortgage loans and home equity loans expose us to a risk of loss due to declining real estate values. At December 31, 2012, $158.8 million, or 22.9%, of our loan portfolio consisted of one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, and $30.6 million, or 4.4%, of our loan portfolio consisted of home equity loans, home equity lines of credit and other consumer loans. Recent declines in the housing market have resulted in declines in real estate values in our market areas. These declines in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage and home equity loans to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss if we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral. Because of our locations in southern New Jersey, many of the properties securing our residential mortgages are second homes or rental properties. At December 31, 2012, 19.5% of our one- to four-family mortgage loans were secured by second homes and 9.2% were secured by rental properties. These loans generally are considered to be more risky than loans secured by the borrower's permanent residence, since the borrower is typically more dependent on rental income to meet debt service requirements, in the case of rental property, and when in financial difficulty is more likely to make payments on the loan secured by the borrower's primary residence before a vacation home. Our construction loan portfolio may expose us to increased credit risk. At December 31, 2012, our construction loan portfolio totaled $22.6 million, of which $15.5 million represented loans to finance the construction of condominiums, apartment buildings and residential developments. In general, construction projects provide for an interest reserve that is utilized to pay the interest until a period of time until the project is expected to produce positive cash flows. To the extent such economic conditions continue, construction loan borrowers could fully utilize their interest reserve before the project is able to generate cash flows. If a borrower has insufficient liquidity to pay interest on such projects, the loan could become impaired and require an increase in the allowance for loan losses, which would adversely impact our results of operations. Our ability to work with a borrower to modify or restructure their existing loan to avoid loss lessens as the loan approaches its maturity date. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investments less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our interest rate spread is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our interest rate spread and, as a result, our net interest income and net interest margin. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. As of December 31, 2012, our models indicate 23 Table of Contents that our assets tend to reprice faster than our liabilities, so they may adjust faster in response to change in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates fall, the yield we earn on assets may fall faster than our funding costs, causing our net interest margin to contract. This contraction could be more severe following a prolonged period of lower interest rates, as a larger proportion of our fixed-rate residential loan portfolio and fixed-rate residential related mortgage backed securities will have been originated at those lower rates and borrowers may be more reluctant to refinance or unable to sell their homes in a higher interest rate environment. Changes in the slope of the "yield curve"—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our assets tend to reprice faster than our liabilities, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. Changes in interest rates also can affect: (1) our ability to originate loans; (2) the value of our interest-earning assets, and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; (3) our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and (4) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. Our procedures for managing interest rate risk exposure also involves monitoring exposure to interest rate increases and decreases of as much as 300 basis points. We report on a quarterly basis the impact on net portfolio value of an immediate and parallel increase of up 300 basis points in interest rates or a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates. As of December 31, 2012, the simulations indicated that the impact of an instantaneous and parallel 300 basis point increase in rates would result in approximately 18% decrease in net portfolio value and that the impact of an instantaneous and parallel 100 basis point decrease in rates over 12 months would result in approximately 2% increase in net portfolio value. The current low interest rate environment may cause an increase in the repayments of the Company's interest-earning assets at a rate faster than the Company's ability to reprice its interest-bearing liabilities. The United States ten-year Treasury rate and the one-month LIBOR are at historically low rates. The yield on the Company's loan and investment portfolios were 5.07% and 2.62%, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2012. In the current low interest rate environment, our current portfolio yields are at levels higher than yields that can be earned on new loan originations and new investment purchases. As customers repay or reprice these assets, the average yield on interest earning assets could decrease. Additionally, our ability to lower our rates on our deposits and borrowings, and accordingly reduce interest expense, may be limited at current interest rate levels. To the extent customers repay or reprice these assets at a pace faster than the Company's ability to reprice interest-bearing liabilities, the Company's net interest income could decrease which may adversely affect our capital and results of operations. Our business strategy includes the continuation of moderate growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. Our assets increased $275.4 million, or 33.9%, from $812.9 million at December 31, 2007, to $1.09 billion at December 31, 2012, primarily due to increases in investment securities and multi-family and commercial real estate loans and commercial and industrial loans funded by growth in deposits and borrowings. Over the long term, we expect to continue to experience growth in assets, deposits and the scale of our operations. However, achieving our growth targets requires us to successfully execute our business strategies, which include continuing to diversify our loan portfolio with more commercial lending thereby recognizing the value of our investments in personnel in that area. Our ability to successfully grow will also depend on the continued availability of loan opportunities that meet our stringent underwriting standards. While we believe we have the resources and internal systems in place 24 Table of Contents to successfully achieve and manage our future growth, growth opportunities may not be available and we may not be able to successfully grow. If we do not manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to achieve our business plan, and our business and prospects could be harmed. If we conclude that the decline in value of any of our investment securities is other than temporary, we are required to write down the value of that security, which could hurt our financial conditions and results of operation. We review individual securities in our investment portfolio at the end of each quarterly reporting period to determine whether the fair value is below the current carrying value. When the fair value of any of our investment securities has declined below its carrying value, we are required to assess whether the decline is other than temporary. If the decline in the market value of a security is determined to be other-than-temporary, the credit portion of the impairment is written down through earnings and the non-credit portion is an adjustment to other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2012, our investment portfolio included securities with an amortized cost of $317.5 million and an estimated fair value of $325.6 million. Changes in the expected cash flows of these securities and/or prolonged price declines may result in our concluding in future periods that the impairment of these securities is other than temporary, which would require a charge to earnings to write down these securities to their fair value. Any charges for other-than-temporary impairment would not impact cash flow, tangible capital or liquidity. A significant percentage of our assets are invested in securities which typically have a lower yield than our loan portfolio. Our results of operations are substantially dependent on our net interest income. At December 31, 2012, 29.8% of our assets were invested in investment and mortgage-backed securities. These investments yield substantially less than the loans we hold in our portfolio. While we intend to invest a greater proportion of our assets in loans with the goal of increasing our net interest income, we may not be able to increase the origination or purchase of loans acceptable to us. Regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") was passed. The Dodd-Frank Act restructured the regulation of depository institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Office of Thrift Supervision, which formerly regulated Fox Chase Bank, was merged into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which regulates national banks. Savings and loan holding companies became regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The Dodd-Frank Act also created a new federal agency to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that was formerly performed by the depository institution regulators. The federal preemption of state laws that was formerly accorded federally chartered depository institutions was reduced as well, and State Attorneys General now have greater authority to bring a suit against a federally chartered institution for violations of certain state and federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposed consolidated capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies effective in five years. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008 and 2009. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. In addition to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal regulatory agencies recently have begun to take stronger supervisory actions against financial institutions that have experienced increased loan losses and other weaknesses as a result of the recent economic crisis. The actions include the 25 Table of Contents entering into written agreements and cease and desist orders that place certain limitations on their operations. Federal bank regulators recently have also been using with more frequency their ability to impose individual minimal capital requirements on banks, which requirements may be higher than those imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act or which would otherwise qualify the bank as being "well capitalized" under the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency's prompt corrective action regulations. If we were to become subject to a supervisory agreement or higher capital requirements, such action may have a negative impact on our ability to execute our business plan, as well as our ability to grow, pay dividends, repurchase treasury stock or engage in mergers and acquisitions and may result in restrictions in our operations. Increased and/or special Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation assessments will hurt our earnings. The recent economic recession caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Increases in the base assessment rate increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, was $536,000. In lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation required all institutions to prepay their assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, which for us totaled $5.0 million. Additional increases in the base assessment rate or additional special assessments would negatively impact our earnings. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, our primary federal regulators, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of Fox Chase Bank rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. As a member bank, we own stock in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh, which has experienced financial difficulties. Our agreement with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh requires us to purchase capital stock in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh commensurate with the amount of our advances and unused borrowing capacity. This stock is carried at cost and was $8.1 million at December 31, 2012. If the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh is unable to meet minimum regulatory capital requirements or is required to aid the remaining Federal Home Loan Banks, our holding of Federal Home Loan Bank stock may be determined to be other than temporarily impaired and may require a charge to our earnings, which could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The FHLB of Pittsburgh has indicated it would only redeem from any member the lesser of the amount of the member's excess capital stock or 5% of the member's total capital stock. The FHLB also indicated and that it may increase its individual member stock investment requirements. The FHLB of Pittsburgh ceased paying a dividend on its common stock during the first quarter of 2009 and did not pay a dividend through December 31, 2011. Beginning in the first quarter of 2012, the FHLB of Pittsburgh reinstated its quarterly dividend. 26 Table of Contents Strong competition within our market areas could reduce our profits. We face intense competition in making loans, attracting deposits and attracting and retaining key employees. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. It has also made it more difficult and costly to attract and hire employees with the level of expertise we require to implement our strategic plan. Additional compensation expense increases noninterest expense, reducing net income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. At June 30, 2012, which is the most recent date for which data is available from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, we held less than 1% of total deposits in counties where our offices are located. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market areas. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 