ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Concentration of loans in our primary market area may increase risk. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in upstate New York, as nearly all of our loans are to customers in this market. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in upstate New York have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans. As such, a decline in real estate valuations in this market would lower the value of the collateral securing those loans. In addition, a significant weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, or other factors beyond our control, could negatively affect our financial results.Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Our financial results depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Because our interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would tend to result in a decrease in our net interest income. We have taken steps to mitigate this risk such as holding fewer longer-term residential mortgages as well as investing excess funds in shorter-term investments. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets and in particular our investment securities available-for-sale. Generally, the value of our investment securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. At 34December 31, 2014, our investment securities available-for-sale totaled $176.3 million. Unrealized gains on our securities available-for-sale totaled $767,000 and are reported in other comprehensive income as a separate component of our stockholders’ equity. Decreases in the fair value of our securities available-for-sale, therefore, could have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity or our earnings if the decrease in fair value is deemed to be other than temporary. Changes in interest rates may also affect the average life of our loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on our existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. A majority of our real estate loans held for investment are adjustable-rate loans. Any rise in market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable rate mortgage loans, increasing the possibility of default. In addition, although adjustable-rate mortgage loans help make our loan portfolio more responsive to changes in interest rates, the extent of this interest sensitivity is limited by the annual and lifetime interest rate adjustment limits. At December 31, 2014, approximately 51.5% of our total loans had adjustable rates of interest. We could record future losses on our securities portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we recognized no impairment losses on securities. At December 31, 2014, we held corporate debt securities with unrealized losses of $1.5 million. A number of factors or combinations of factors could require us to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that an unrealized loss that exists with respect to these securities constitutes an impairment that is other than temporary, which could result in material losses to us. These factors include, but are not limited to, continued failure by the issuer to make scheduled interest payments, an increase in the severity of the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the continuous duration of the unrealized loss without an improvement in value or changes in market conditions and/or industry or issuer specific factors that would render us unable to forecast a full recovery in value. In addition, the fair values of securities could decline if the overall economy and the financial condition of some of the issuers continue to deteriorate and there remains limited liquidity for these securities.We also hold investment securities for which the fair value option has been elected, which are considered trading securities. Changes in the fair value of these securities are recorded in earnings and may result in higher volatility in our earnings. If our non-performing assets increase, our earnings will suffer. At December 31, 2014, our non-performing assets (which consist of non-accrual loans, loans 90 days or more delinquent, foreclosed real estate assets and non-accruing investment securities) totaled $552,000, which is a decrease of $48,000 over non-performing assets at December 31, 2013. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or investments or on real estate owned. We must reserve for probable losses, which are established through a current period charge to income in the provision for loan losses, and from time to time, write down the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our other real estate owned. Further, the resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract us from the overall supervision of operations and other income-producing activities of Oneida Savings Bank. Finally, if our estimate of the allowance for loan losses is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance accordingly. Increases to the allowance for loan losses would cause our earnings to decrease. Our customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the repayment of these loans may be insufficient to repay the remaining principal balance of the loan. Hence, we may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we rely on loan quality reviews, past loss experience, and an evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, which would require us to make additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease our net income. Our emphasis on the origination of commercial real estate and business loans is one of the more significant factors in determining the amount of our allowance for loan losses. As we continue to emphasize the origination of these loans, additional provisions for loan losses may be necessary which would decrease our earnings.35Bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities would have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Commercial real estate and business loans increase our exposure to credit risks. At December 31, 2014, our portfolio of commercial real estate and multi-family loans totaled $88.6 million, or 23.9% of total loans, and our commercial business loans totaled $53.7 million, or 14.5% of total loans. We plan to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans. Commercial real estate and commercial business loans generally expose us to a greater risk of nonpayment and loss than one-to-four family residential real estate loans because repayment of such loans often depends on the successful business operations and income stream of the borrowers. Additionally, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans. Many of our borrowers have more than one commercial loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship may expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four family residential real estate loan. Finally, if we foreclose on a commercial real estate or commercial business loan, our holding period for the collateral, if any, typically is longer than for one-to-four family residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. We target our business lending and marketing strategy towards small to medium-sized businesses. These small to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact these businesses, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our loan portfolio has greater risk due to the substantial number of home equity loans and consumer loans. At December 31, 2014, our home equity loans totaled $53.2 million, or 14.4% of our total loan portfolio. Our home equity loans are primarily secured by second mortgages, and the combined loan-to-value ratio (first and second mortgage liens) for home equity loans may have been as high as 90% at the time of origination and may be higher at present. At December 31, 2014, our consumer loans totaled $46.9 million, or 12.7% of our total loan portfolio, of which $40.1 million consisted of automobile loans. Our automobile loans include a substantial number of automobile loans that are referred to us by participating automobile dealerships located in our market area, although our lending staff underwrites and approves such loans. Our consumer loan portfolio also includes automobile loans originated directly by us, as well as unsecured loans and loans secured by other personal property. Home equity loans and consumer loans generally have greater risk than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans, particularly in the case of loans that are secured by second mortgages or by rapidly depreciable assets, such as automobiles, or that are unsecured. In these cases, we face the risk that collateral, when we have it, for a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance. Particularly with respect to our home equity loans, any decrease in real estate values that adversely affect the value of the property serving as collateral for our loans would have a greater effect on the value of collateral securing a second mortgage. Thus, the recovery of such property could be insufficient to compensate us for the value of these loans. As a result of our large portfolio of home equity loans and consumer loans, it may become necessary to increase our provision for loan losses, which could reduce our profits. Municipal deposits are price sensitive and could result in an increase in interest expense or funding fluctuations. In recent years we have had significant growth in our municipal deposits from sources within our market area. These deposits are price sensitive source of funds from both an interest and service charge perspective. We may experience a sudden increase in interest expense if market interest rates rise suddenly or risk the possibility of deposit outflows if we are unwilling to price these deposits as aggressively as our competition. This liquidity risk may require us to sell the investment securities collateralizing the municipal deposits at a loss or to access higher cost borrowings which would result in an increase in our interest expense.Our operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of our employees. Our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses, and to expand into new businesses and geographic regions depends on our ability to attract retain and motivate our employees. Competition for qualified employees is often intense. Moreover, future laws or regulations limiting the amount of compensation financial institutions may pay to senior management may adversely affect our ability to hire and retain qualified employees. 36We have continued to increase total revenue and net income from non-banking sources such as insurance commissions and employee benefit consulting and services. Key employees provide expertise in the management of these business lines and develop and maintain customer relationships. The loss of those key employees would adversely affect the growth of our non-banking businesses and their continued profitability. Conditions in insurance markets could adversely affect our earnings. As we have diversified our sources of income, we have become increasingly reliant on non-interest income, particularly insurance fees and commissions. Revenue from these sources could be negatively affected by fluctuating premiums in the insurance markets or other factors beyond our control. Other factors that affect our insurance revenue are the profitability and growth of our clients, continued development of new products and services, as well as our access to new markets. Our insurance revenues and profitability may also be adversely affected by new laws and regulatory developments impacting the healthcare and insurance markets. We hold certain intangible assets that in the future could be classified as either partially or fully impaired, which would reduce our earnings and the book values of these assets. We test our intangible assets for impairment at least annually. Our impairment testing incorporates the current market price of our common stock, the estimated fair value of our assets and liabilities, and certain information of similar companies. It is possible that future impairment testing could result in a decline in value of our intangible assets which would adversely affect our financial condition. If we determine an impairment exists at a given point in time, our earnings and the book value of the related intangibles would be reduced by the amount of the impairment. If an impairment loss is recorded, it will have little or no impact on the tangible book value of our shares of common stock or our regulatory capital levels. If we acquire additional financial institutions or financial services companies, it is likely that the amount of goodwill included in our intangible assets will increase. We hold certain other assets representing an investment in a risk retention group that in the future could be classified as either partially or fully impaired, which would reduce our earnings and the book values of these assets. During 2012, the Company recorded an impairment charge related to an asset held by the Bank supporting sales activities in its insurance agency subsidiary. The asset represented surplus notes to an insurance company specializing in professional liability for long-term care facilities. At December 31, 2014, the Bank had surplus notes to an insurance company specializing in professional liability for medical malpractice of $2.0 million. These surplus notes were performing as of December 31, 2014 and were not considered impaired. A number of factors or combination of factors could require us to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that an impairment exists with respect to this asset and require us to realize the impairment which would reduce earnings.Strong competition may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. We compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors (whether regional or national institutions) have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our ability to successfully compete in our market area. Financial reform legislation enacted by Congress has, among other things, eliminated the Office of Thrift Supervision, tightened capital standards and increased capital requirments, created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and has resulted in new laws and regulations that have increased our costs of operations. In 2010, Congress enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which is significantly changing the bank regulatory structure and affecting the lending, investment, trading and operating activities of depository institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act provided for the elimination of the Office of Thrift Supervision and authorized the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to supervise and regulate all savings and loan holding companies, like Oneida Financial Corp., in addition to bank holding companies which it then regulated. The Dodd-Frank Act also required the Federal Reserve Board to set minimum capital levels for bank and savings and loan holding companies that are as stringent as those required for the insured depository subsidiaries; the components of Tier 1 capital must be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. The legislation also established a floor for capital of insured depository institutions that cannot be lower than the standards then in effect, and directed the federal banking regulators to implement new leverage and capital requirements within 18 months that take into account off-37balance sheet activities and other risks, including risks relating to securitized products and derivatives. Regulations implementing these requirements became effective, January 1, 2015. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions such as Oneida Savings Bank, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance by their applicable bank regulators. The new legislation also weakened the federal preemption available for national banks and federal savings associations, and gave state attorney generals' the ability to enforce applicable federal consumer protection laws. The legislation broadened the base for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a depository institution. The Dodd-Frank Act permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000. The Dodd-Frank Act also provided for regulations requiring that originators of securitized loans retain a percentage of the risk for transferred credits, directed the Federal Reserve Board to regulate the pricing of certain debit card interchange fees, repealed restrictions on paying interest on commercial checking accounts and contained a number of reforms related to mortgage originations. The Dodd-Frank Act increased stockholder influence over boards of directors by requiring companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and authorizing the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directed the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. It remains difficult to predict the effect that the legislation and implementing regulations will have on community banks. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have delayed effective dates and the legislation required various federal agencies to promulgate numerous and extensive implementing regulations. Although the full substance and scope of these regulations cannot be determined at this time, it is expected that the legislation and implementing regulations, particularly those relating to the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, will continue to increase our operating and compliance costs. Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and our income. In response to the financial crisis of 2008 and early 2009, Congress took various actions that were intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in depository institutions, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation took various actions, including increasing insurance coverage on deposit accounts. In addition, there have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount delinquent borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit an institution’s ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, or changes in policy, affecting lending and funding practices and liquidity standards. Moreover, bank regulatory agencies have been active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, and have issued many formal enforcement orders requiring capital ratios in excess of regulatory requirements. Bank regulatory agencies, such as the New York State Department of Financial Services, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Federal Reserve Board, govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors, and not for the protection or benefit of potential investors. In addition, new laws and regulations may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws and regulations may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, the fees we can charge, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further, legislative proposals limiting our rights as a creditor could result in credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the New York State Department of Financial Services and the Federal Reserve Board. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding companies may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form 38of regulatory policy, new regulations or legislation or additional deposit insurance premiums could have a material impact on our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws and applicable regulations are subject to frequent change. Any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. If our investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York becomes impaired, our earnings and stockholders’ equity could decrease. We are required to own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank’s advance program. The aggregate carrying value of our Federal Home Loan Bank common stock as of December 31, 2014 was $1.4 million. Federal Home Loan Bank common stock is not a marketable security and can only be redeemed by the Federal Home Loan Bank. Federal Home Loan Banks may be subject to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could materially lower their regulatory capital. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, there is a risk that our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank of New York common stock could be deemed impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause our earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the amount of the impairment charge.System failure or breaches of our information systems could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems, including risk to data integrity. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.The Company will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger is pending. On February 24, 2015, the board of directors of the Company unanimously approved an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) between the Company and Community Bank System, Inc. (“Community Bank System”), wherein the Company will merge with and into Community Bank System (the “Merger”). Uncertainty about the effect of the Merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on the Company. These uncertainties may impair the Company’s ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the Merger is consummated, and could cause customers and others that deal with the Company to seek to change existing business relationships with the Company. Retention of certain employees by the Company may be challenging while the Merger is pending, as certain employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with Community Bank System. In addition, the Merger Agreement restricts the Company from operating its business other than in the ordinary course, and prohibits it from taking specified actions until the Merger occurs without the consent of Community Bank System. These restrictions may prevent the Company from pursuing business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the Merger. Two class action lawsuits have been filed against the Company and the members of the Company’s Board of Directors, as well as Community Bank System, challenging the Merger, and an adverse judgment in such lawsuits may prevent the Merger from becoming effective or from becoming effective within the expected timeframe. In addition, the Company has filed for declaratory judgment against FinPro, Inc., and an adverse judgment in such lawsuit could adversely impact the Company.The Company and the members of the Company’s Board of Directors are named as defendants in the purported class action lawsuits brought by certain stockholders of the Company challenging the Merger, seeking, among other things, to enjoin the defendants from consummating the Merger on the agreed-upon terms. Community Bank System is also named as a defendant in the lawsuits. One of the conditions to the closing of the Merger is that no action has been instituted, pending or threatened in writing, nor any order, decree or injunction issued by a court or agency of competent jurisdiction that enjoins or prohibits the consummation of the Merger shall be in effect. As such, if the plaintiffs are successful in obtaining a final injunction prohibiting the defendants 39from consummating the Merger on the agreed upon terms, then such injunction may prevent the Merger from becoming effective, or from becoming effective within the expected timeframe, even if the Company and Community Bank System waive this closing condition.The Company has filed a complaint that FinPro has wrongfully demanded a $1.42 million service fee in connection with the Merger for which it has provided no services and for which fee has no right to receive, contractually or otherwise. As a result, the Company is seeking declaratory judgment nullifying the improper demand made by FinPro, and any purported agreement on which the demand is allegedly based. An adverse judgment in such lawsuit could adversely impact the Company and could prevent or delay the Merger from becoming effective or from becoming effective within the expected timeframe. Termination of the Merger Agreement with Community Bank System, Inc. could adversely impact the Company.If the Merger Agreement is terminated, there may be various adverse consequences to the Company and its subsidiaries. For example, the Bank’s business may be adversely affected by the failure to pursue other potential business opportunities due to management's focus on the Merger, without realizing any of the anticipated benefits from completing the Merger. The Company has incurred substantial costs in connection with the Merger, including legal, accounting or investment banking fees associated with the negotiation of the Merger Agreement, reviewing and preparing applications to obtain regulatory approval of the Merger, preparing and reviewing offering and proxy materials, obtaining shareholder approval of the Merger, and defending against litigation as described above. Additionally, if the Merger Agreement is terminated, the market price of the Company’s common stock could decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the Merger will be completed. If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, the Company will be required to pay Community Bank System, Inc. a termination fee of $4.93 million. ITEM 1.B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable.40