Item 1A. Risk Factors—Fees for financial services are subject to increasingly intense legislative and regulatory scrutiny, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects for future growth" of our annual report on Form 10-K for additional discussion. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Money Transmitter Regulations. Because our technology services are provided in connection with the financial products of our Bank Partners, our activities are occasionally reviewed by regulatory agencies to ensure that we do not impermissibly engage in activities that require licensing at the state or federal level. In the ordinary course of business, we receive letters and inquiries concerning the nature of our business as it applies to state "money transmitter" licensing and regulations from different state regulatory agencies. If a state agency were to conclude that we are required to be licensed as a "money transmitter," we may need to undergo a costly licensing process in that state, and failure to comply could be a violation of state and potentially federal law. Privacy and Data Regulation We are subject to laws and regulations relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable information and data regarding our customers and their financial information. In addition, we are bound by our own privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data, which are posted on certain of our website pages. In conjunction with the disbursement, payroll and tuition payment services we make available through our Bank Partners, it is necessary to collect certain information from our customers (such as bank account and routing numbers) to transmit to our Bank Partners. Our Bank Partners use this information to execute the funds transfers requested by our customers, which are effected primarily by means of ACH networks and other wire transfer systems, such as FedWire. To the extent the data required by these electronic funds networks change, the information that we will be required to request from our clients may also change. We are subject, either directly or by virtue of our contractual relationship with our Bank Partners, to the privacy and security standards of the GLBA privacy regulations, as well as certain state data protection laws and regulations. The GLBA privacy regulations require that we develop, implement and maintain a written comprehensive information security program prescribing safeguards that are appropriate to our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities and the sensitivity of any personally identifiable information we access for processing purposes or otherwise maintain. As a service provider of our Bank Partners, we also are limited in our use and disclosure of the personal information we receive from our Bank Partners, which we may use and disclose only for the purposes for which it was provided to us and consistent with the bank's own data privacy and security obligations. We also are subject to the standards set forth in guidance on data security issued by the Federal Financial Institution Examination Council, as well as the data security standards imposed by the card associations, including Visa, Inc., and MasterCard. In addition, we are subject to similar data security breach laws enacted by a number of states. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with any legal or regulatory requirements or orders or other federal or state privacy or consumer protection-related laws and regulations, or with our own privacy policies, could result in fines, sanctions, litigation, negative publicity, limitation of our ability to conduct our business and injury to our reputation, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. New legislation and regulations in this area have been proposed, both at the federal and state level. Such measures, including pending Federal legislation, would potentially impose additional obligations on us, including requiring that we provide notifications to consumers and government authorities in the event of a data breach or unauthorized access or disclosure, beyond what state law already requires. These laws and regulations could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business. Compliance We monitor our compliance through an internal audit program. Our full-time internal auditor works with a third-party internal audit firm to conduct annual reviews to ensure compliance with the regulatory requirements described above. The costs of these audits and the costs of complying with the applicable regulatory requirements are significant. Increased regulatory requirements on our products and services, such as in connection with the matters described above, could materially increase our costs or reduce revenue. It is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. The imposition of any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business. In addition, many of these laws and regulations are evolving, unclear and inconsistent across various jurisdictions. If we were deemed to be in violation of any laws or regulations that are currently in place or that may be promulgated in the future, including but not limited to those described above, we could be exposed to financial liability and adverse publicity or forced to change our business practices or stop offering some of our products and services. We also could face significant legal fees, delays in extending our product and services offerings, and damage to our reputation that could harm our business and reduce demand for our products and services. Even if we are not required to change our business practices, we could be required to obtain licenses or regulatory approvals that could cause us to incur substantial costs and delays. 13 table of contents The convenience fees that we charge in connection with payment transactions are subject to change. Most credit and debit card associations and networks permit us to charge convenience fees to students, parents or other payers who make online payments to our higher education institution clients through the SmartPay feature of our ePayment product using a credit or debit card. In 2012, these convenience fees accounted for substantially all of our payment transaction revenue, which is a trend we expect to continue going forward. While the majority of credit and debit card associations and networks routinely permit merchants and other third parties to charge these fees, it is not a ubiquitous practice in the payment industry. If these credit and debit card associations and networks change their policies in permitting merchants and other third-parties to charge these fees or otherwise restrict our ability to do so, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. There are risks associated with charging convenience fees. Through our SmartPay service, which we acquired in connection with our acquisition of IDC in 2009, some of our higher education institution clients charge convenience fees to students, parents or other payers who make online payments using a credit or debit card. In light of the ongoing legislative efforts at financial regulatory reform, we examined the laws and regulations related to convenience fees. We found that these laws and regulations vary from state to state and certain states, including California, Massachusetts and New York, have laws that to varying degrees prohibit the imposition of a surcharge on a credit or debit cardholder who elects to use a credit or debit card in lieu of payment by cash, check or other means. The penalties for violating these laws vary from state to state and include, in certain circumstances, fines that could be significant. We are not aware of any enforcement or civil action against a higher education institution or a third party service provider for charging convenience fees. We have nevertheless worked with our higher education institution clients to ensure that we can continue to provide the services they demand, while ensuring we are in compliance with these laws and regulations prospectively. The affected revenues to us are not significant. However, if one or more states or other parties initiate an action against us, we could be subject to a claim for significant fines or damages. Moreover, the institution of any such action could disrupt our operations or result in negative publicity, which could diminish our ability to attract new and retain existing clients, and could materially and adversely affect our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends on the current government financial aid regime that relies on the outsourcing of financial aid disbursements through higher education institutions. In general, the U.S. federal government distributes financial aid to students through higher education institutions as intermediaries. Our OneDisburse® service provides our higher education institution clients an electronic system for improving the administrative efficiency of this refund disbursement process. If the government, through legislation or regulatory action, restructures the existing financial aid regime in such a way that reduces or eliminates the intermediary role played by financial institutions serving higher education institutions or limits or regulates the role played by service providers such as us, our business, results of operations and prospects for future growth could be materially and adversely affected. A change in the availability of financial aid, as well as U.S. budget constraints, could materially and adversely affect our financial performance by reducing demand for our services. The higher education industry depends heavily upon the ability of students to obtain financial aid. As part of our contracts with our higher education institution clients that use OneDisburse, students' financial aid and other refunds are sent to us for disbursement. The fees that we charge most of our OneDisburse higher education institution clients are based on the number of financial aid disbursements that we make to students. In addition, our relationships with OneDisburse higher education institution clients provide us with a market for OneAccounts, from which we derive a significant proportion of our revenues. Consequently, a change in the availability of financial aid that restricted client use of our OneDisburse product or otherwise limited our ability to attract new higher education institution clients could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Future legislative and executive branch efforts to reduce the U.S. federal budget deficit or worsening economic conditions may require the government to severely curtail its financial aid spending, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Termination of, or changes to, the MasterCard association registration could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and our Bank Partners, which issue our Higher One debit MasterCards, are subject to MasterCard association rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by MasterCard for acts or omissions by us or businesses that work with us. The termination of the card association registration held by us or our Bank Partners or any changes in card association or other network rules or standards, including interpretation and implementation of existing rules or standards, that increase the cost of doing business or limit our ability to provide our products and services could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Intellectual property infringement claims against us could be costly and time-consuming to defend and if we are unsuccessful in our defense could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third parties may assert, including by means of counter-claims against us as a result of the assertion of our intellectual property rights, that our products, services or technology, or the operation of our business, violate their intellectual property rights. As the number of competitors in our industry increases and the functionality of technology offerings further overlap, such claims and counter-claims could become more common. We cannot be certain that we do not or will not infringe third parties' intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property claim against us, regardless of its merit, could result in significant liabilities to our business. Depending on the nature of such claim, our business may be disrupted, our management's attention and other company resources may be diverted and we may be required to redesign our products and services or to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the rights to use necessary technologies, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we cannot redesign our products and services or license necessary technologies, we may be subject to the risk of injunctive relief and/or significant damage awards, which are complex, subjective and hard to predict, and subsequently we may not be able to offer or sell a particular product or service, or a family of products or services. Any intellectual property claim against us could be expensive and time consuming to defend. Insurance may not cover or be insufficient for such claim, or may not be available on terms acceptable to us. A claim brought against us that is uninsured or underinsured could result in unanticipated costs, thereby having a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we have an indemnification arrangement with a third party to indemnify us against an intellectual property claim, such indemnifying party may be unable or fail to uphold its contractual obligations to us. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim that is brought against us is successful, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 14 table of contents The terms of our credit agreement may restrict our current and future operations, which could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and to manage our operations. Our credit agreement contains, and any future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things: • create liens; • make investments and acquisitions; • incur additional debt; • transfer all or substantially all of our assets or enter into merger or consolidation transactions; • dispose of assets; • pay dividends or make any other distributions with respect to our stock; • issue stock, warrants, options or other rights to purchase stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of stock; • engage in any material line of business substantially different from the lines of business we currently conduct or any business substantially related or incidental thereto; and • enter into transactions with affiliates. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and any material deviations from our forecasts could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants or alternative sources of funding. We cannot be sure that such waivers, amendments or alternative sources of funding could be obtained, or if obtained, would be on terms acceptable to us. Our credit agreement also requires us to maintain certain liquidity levels and satisfy certain financial ratios, including a maximum total leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. A failure by us to comply with the covenants contained in our credit agreement could result in an event of default which could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and manage our operations. An event of default would also occur under our credit agreement if we undergo a change of control or if we experience a material adverse change in our operations, condition or prospects. In the event of any default under our credit agreement, the lender could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be due and payable and require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these amounts. The acceleration of indebtedness under our credit agreement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We outsource critical operations, which exposes us to risks related to our third-party vendors, and we have begun to in-source certain technology functions, which exposes us to other risks. We have entered into contracts with third-party vendors to provide critical services, technology and software in our operations. These outsourcing partners include: Fiserv, which provides back-end account and transaction data processing for OneAccounts; MasterCard, which provides the payment network for our debit MasterCard ATM cards, as well as for certain other transactions; Comerica and Global Payments, which provide transaction processing and banking services for payment processing related to the SmartPay feature of our ePayment service; and Verizon Terremark, which provides web and application hosting services in secure data centers. In the event that these service providers fail to maintain adequate levels of support, do not provide high quality service, discontinue their lines of business, terminate our contractual arrangements or cease or reduce operations, we may be required to pursue new third-party relationships, which could materially disrupt our operations and our ability to provide our products and services, and could divert management's time and resources. Replacement technology or services provided by replacement third-party vendors could be more expensive than those we have currently, while the process of transitioning services and data from one provider to another can be complicated and time consuming. If we are unable to complete a transition to a new provider on a timely basis, or at all, we could be forced to temporarily or permanently discontinue certain services, which could disrupt services to our customers and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to establish comparable new third-party relationships on as favorable terms or at all, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. With respect to the technology and operational support functions that we have in-sourced to date or that we seek to in-source, we may encounter difficulty or delays in developing and supporting an appropriate infrastructure to be able to perform these functions ourselves. We may also not realize the full value of our investments in these projects. Breaches of security measures, unauthorized access to or disclosure of data relating to our clients, fraudulent activity, and infrastructure failures could materially and adversely affect our reputation or harm our business. Our higher education institution clients and student OneAccount holders disclose to us certain "personally identifiable" information, including student contact information, identification numbers and the amount of credit balances, which they expect we will maintain in confidence. It is possible that hackers, customers or employees acting unlawfully or contrary to our policies, or other individuals, could improperly access our or our vendors' systems and obtain or disclose data about our customers. Further, because customer data may also be collected, stored, or processed by third party vendors, it is possible that these vendors could intentionally, negligently or otherwise disclose data about our clients or customers. We rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems, databases, and infrastructure, and take reasonable steps to protect them. However, due to their size, complexity, content and integration with or reliance on third party systems they are potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion, natural disaster and random attack, all of which pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. A cybersecurity breach of our information systems could lead to fraudulent activity, including with respect to our debit MasterCard ATM cards, such as identity theft, losses on the part of our banking customers, additional security costs, negative publicity and damage to our reputation and brand. In addition, our customers could be subject to scams that may result in the release of sufficient information concerning themselves or their accounts to allow others unauthorized access to their accounts or our systems (e.g., "phishing" and "smishing"). Claims for compensatory or other damages may be brought against us as a result of a breach of our systems or fraudulent activity. If we are unsuccessful in defending against any resulting claims against us, we may be forced to pay damages, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a significant incident of fraud or an increase in fraud levels generally involving our products, such as our debit MasterCard ATM cards, could result in reputational damage to us, which could reduce the use of our products and services. Such incidents of fraud could also lead to regulatory intervention, which could increase our compliance costs. Compliance with the various complex laws and regulations is costly and time consuming, and failure to comply could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, increased regulatory requirements on our services may increase our costs, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, account data breaches and related fraudulent activity could have a material adverse effect on our future growth prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations. A disruption to our systems or infrastructure could damage our reputation, expose us to legal liability, cause us to lose customers and revenue, result in the unintentional disclosure of confidential information or require us to expend significant efforts and resources or incur significant expense to eliminate these problems and address related data and security concerns. The harm to our business could be even greater if such an event occurs during a period of disproportionately heavy demand for our products or services or traffic on our systems or networks. 15 table of contents Providing disbursement services to higher education institutions is an emerging and uncertain business; if the market for our products does not continue to develop, we will not be able to grow this portion of our business. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to generate revenues by providing financial transaction services to higher education institutions and their students. The market for these services has only recently developed and the long-term viability and profitability of this market is unproven. Our business will be materially and adversely affected if we do not develop and market products and services that achieve and maintain market acceptance. Outsourcing disbursement services may not become as widespread in the higher education industry as we anticipate, and our products and services may not achieve continued commercial success. In addition, higher education institution clients could discontinue using our services and return to in-house disbursement and payment solutions. If outsourcing disbursement services does not become widespread or if higher education institution clients return to their prior methods of disbursement, our growth prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our business depends on a strong brand and a failure to maintain and develop our brand in a cost-effective manner may hurt our ability to expand our customer base. Maintaining and developing the "Higher One®," "OneDisburse®," "CASHNet®" and "Campus Labs®" brands is critical to expanding and maintaining our base of higher education institution clients and student OneAccount holders. We believe the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market further intensifies. Maintaining and developing our brands will depend largely on our ability to continue to provide high-quality products and services at cost effective and competitive prices, as well as after-sale customer service. While we intend to continue investing in our brands, we cannot predict the success of these investments. If we fail to maintain and enhance our brands, if we incur excessive expenses in this effort or if our reputation is otherwise tainted, including by association with the wider financial services industry, we may be unable to maintain loyalty among our existing customers or attract new customers, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to generate revenue could suffer if we do not continue to update and improve our existing products and services and develop new ones. The industry for electronic financial transactions, including disbursement services, is generally subject to rapid and significant technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in the areas of smart cards, radio frequency and proximity payment devices (such as contactless cards), electronic commerce and mobile commerce, among others. While we cannot predict how these technological changes will affect our business, we believe that disbursement services to the higher education industry will be subject to a similar degree of technological change and that new services and technologies for the industry will emerge in the medium-term. As a result, these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our products and services. In addition, the products and services we develop may not be able to compete with the alternatives available to our customers. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. We make substantial investments in improving our products and services, but we have no assurance that our investments will be successful. Our growth prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected if we do not develop products and services that achieve broad market acceptance with our current and potential customers. Our business will suffer if we fail to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies or to appropriately assess the risks in transactions. We have in the past acquired, and may in the future acquire, businesses, technologies, services, product lines and other assets. The successful integration of any business, technology, service, product line or other asset that we acquire in the future, on a cost-effective basis, may be critical to our future performance. If we do not successfully integrate a strategic acquisition, such as our recent acquisition of Campus Labs, or if the benefits of the transaction do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of our common stock may decline. The amount and timing of the expected benefits of any acquisition, including potential synergies between our current business and the acquired business, are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. As a result of these risks, we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of any acquisition. If we are unsuccessful in completing an acquisition that we may pursue in the future, we would be required to reevaluate our growth strategy. Even if we successfully integrate other assets or businesses we may acquire, we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources in seeking to complete and integrate the acquisition, and the acquired businesses may not perform as we expect or enhance the value of our business as a whole. We may be liable to our customers or lose customers if we provide poor service or if our systems or products experience failures. Because of the large amount of data we collect and manage, hardware failures and errors in our systems could result in data loss or corruption or cause the information that we collect to be incomplete or contain significant inaccuracies. For example, errors in our processing systems could delay disbursements or cause disbursements to be made in the wrong amounts or to the wrong person. Our systems may also experience service interruptions as a result of undetected errors or defects in our software, fire, natural disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism, accident or other similar reason, in which case we may experience delays in returning to full service, especially with regard to our data centers and customer service call centers. If problems such as these occur, our customers may seek compensation, withhold payments, seek full or partial refunds, terminate their agreements with us or initiate litigation or other dispute resolution procedures. In addition, we may be subject to claims made by third parties also affected by any of these problems. Our ability to limit our liabilities by contract or through insurance may be ineffective or insufficient to cover our future liabilities. We attempt to limit, by contract, our liability for damages arising from our negligence, errors, mistakes or security breaches. Contractual limitations on liability, however, may not be enforceable or may otherwise not provide sufficient protection to us from liability for damages. For example, as we may be deemed by the Department of Education to be a third-party servicer to our higher education institution clients, we are required to agree to be held jointly and severally liable with our clients for violations of the federal regulations that govern the disbursement of financial aid refunds. Additionally, some of our public higher education institution clients are prohibited by state law from contractually indemnifying us for liability resulting from such violations. We maintain liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors and omissions. It is possible, however, that claims could exceed the amount of our applicable insurance coverage, if any, or that this coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, investigating and defending against them could be expensive and time consuming and could divert management's attention away from our operations. In addition, negative publicity caused by these events may delay market acceptance of our products and services, any of which could materially and adversely affect our reputation and our business. If we are unable to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, we may lose a competitive advantage and incur significant expenses. Our business depends on certain registered and unregistered intellectual property rights and proprietary information. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and technical measures (such as the password protection and encryption of our data and systems) to protect our technology and intellectual property rights, including our proprietary software. Existing laws afford only limited protection for our intellectual property rights. Intellectual property rights or registrations granted to us may provide an inadequate competitive advantage to us or be too narrow to protect our products and services. Similarly, there is no guarantee that our pending applications for intellectual property protection will result in registrations or issued patents or sufficiently protect our rights. The protections outlined above may not be sufficient to prevent unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of our intellectual property or technology and may not prevent our competitors from copying, infringing, or misappropriating our products and services. We cannot be certain that others will not independently develop, design around or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology or intellectual property rights. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our business and growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. 16 table of contents One or more of our issued patents or pending patent applications may be categorized as so-called "business method" patents. The general validity of software patents and business method patents has been challenged in a number of jurisdictions, including the United States. On June 28, 2010, the United States Supreme Court determined that a certain "business method" amounting to abstract ideas was not patentable. Although the Court's decision provides little guidance on patentability of our business methods, our patents could become less valuable or unenforceable if additional requirements are imposed that our patents do not meet. From time to time, we seek to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties, such as through our current litigation against TouchNet Information Systems, Inc. See "Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings" of this report. The fact that we have intellectual property rights, including registered intellectual property, may not guarantee success in our attempts to enforce these rights against third parties. Our ability and potential success in enforcing our rights is also subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our intellectual property rights. When we seek to enforce our rights, we may be subject to claims that our intellectual property rights are invalid, otherwise unenforceable, or are licensed to the party against whom we are asserting the claim. In addition, our assertions of intellectual property rights may result in the other party seeking to assert various claims against us, including its own alleged intellectual property rights, claims of unfair competition, or other claims. Furthermore, enforcing our intellectual property and other proprietary rights can be expensive. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive or less profitable to do business and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a holding company, our main source of cash is distributions from our operating subsidiaries. We conduct all of our operations through our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our main cash source is dividends and other distributions from these subsidiaries. The ability of each subsidiary to make distributions depends on the funds that a subsidiary has from its operations in excess of the funds necessary for its operations, obligations or other business plans. If our operating subsidiaries are unable to make distributions, we may not be able to implement our growth strategy, unless we are able to obtain additional debt or equity financing. In the event of a subsidiary's liquidation, there may not be assets sufficient for us to recoup our investment in the subsidiary. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 