Item 1A. Risk Factors.” These factors should be considered in evaluating the forward-looking statements and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements. FedFirst Financial Corporation assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General FedFirst Financial Corporation (“FedFirst Financial” or the “Company”) is a stock holding company established in 2010, whose wholly owned subsidiary is First Federal Savings Bank (“First Federal” or the “Bank”), a federally chartered stock savings bank. Through its wholly-owned subsidiary FedFirst Exchange Corporation (“FFEC”), the Bank has an 80% controlling interest in Exchange Underwriters, Inc. (“Exchange Underwriters”). Exchange Underwriters is a full-service, independent insurance agency that offers property and casualty, commercial liability, surety and other insurance products. The Company completed its conversion from the mutual holding company form of organization to the stock holding company form on September 21, 2010. As a result of the conversion, FedFirst Financial Corporation, a newly formed state-chartered corporation, became the holding company for First Federal Savings Bank, and FedFirst Financial Mutual Holding Company and the former FedFirst Financial Corporation ceased to exist. As part of the conversion, all outstanding shares of the former FedFirst Financial Corporation common stock (other than those owned by FedFirst Financial Mutual Holding Company) were converted into the right to receive 0.4735 of a share of the new FedFirst Financial common stock resulting in 1,270,484 shares issued in the exchange. In addition, a total of 1,722,185 shares of common stock were sold in the subscription, community and syndicated community offerings at the price of $10.00 per share or $17.2 million in the aggregate. The completion of the Company’s public offering raised $15.4 million in proceeds, net of $1.9 million in offering expenses. The Bank operates as a community-oriented financial institution offering residential, multi-family and commercial mortgages, consumer loans and commercial business loans as well as a variety of deposit products for individuals and businesses from eight locations in southwestern Pennsylvania. The Bank conducts insurance brokerage activities through Exchange Underwriters. The Bank is subject to competition from other financial institutions and to the regulations of certain federal and state agencies and undergoes periodic examinations by those regulatory authorities. Under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), on July 21, 2011 the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) assumed responsibility from the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”) for the ongoing examination, supervision, and regulation of federal savings associations and rulemaking for all savings associations. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act transferred OTS functions related to the supervision of savings and loan holding companies to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. K-1 Table of Contents Our website address is www.firstfederal-savings.com. Information on our website should not be considered a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Market Area Our eight banking offices are located in Fayette, Washington and Westmoreland counties, which are located in the southern suburban area of metropolitan Pittsburgh. Generally, our offices are located in small industrial communities that, in the past, relied extensively on the steel industry. Until the mid-1970s, these communities flourished. However, in the past 30 years, the economy of our market area has diminished in direct correlation with the decline in the United States steel industry. With the decline of the steel industry, Fayette, Washington and Westmoreland counties now have smaller and more diversified economies, with employment in services constituting the primary source of employment in all three counties. The largest private-sector employers in our market area are providers of health care services. In the past, the communities in which our offices are located provided a stable customer base for traditional thrift products, such as statement savings, certificates of deposit and residential mortgages. Following the closing of the area’s steel mills, population and employment trends declined. The population in many of the smaller communities in our market area continues to shrink as the younger population leaves to seek better and more reliable employment. As a result, the median age of our customers has been increasing. With an aging customer base and little new real estate development, the lending opportunities in our primary market area are limited. To counter these trends, we expanded into communities that are experiencing population growth and economic expansion. In July 2006, we opened an office in Peters Township in Washington County. In June 2007, we opened an office in the downtown area of Washington, Pennsylvania. Competition We face significant competition for the attraction of deposits and origination of loans. Our most direct competition for deposits has historically come from the several financial institutions operating in our market area and from other financial service companies, such as brokerage firms, credit unions and insurance companies. We also face competition for investors’ funds from money market funds, mutual funds and other corporate and government securities. At June 30, 2011, which is the most recent date for which data is available from the FDIC, we held approximately 0.29% of the deposits in the Pittsburgh metropolitan area. Banks owned by The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc., Citizens Financial Group, Inc. and BNY Mellon also operate in our market area. These institutions, as well as many other banking institutions operating in our market area, are significantly larger than us and, therefore, have significantly greater resources. Our competition for loans comes primarily from financial institutions in our market area and, to a lesser extent, from other financial service providers, such as mortgage companies and mortgage brokers. Competition for loans also comes from the increasing number of non-depository financial service companies entering the mortgage market, such as insurance companies, securities companies and specialty finance companies. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Technological advances, for example, have lowered barriers to entry, allowed banks to expand their geographic reach by providing services over the Internet and made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally have been provided by banks. Competition for deposits and the origination of loans could limit our growth in the future. Lending Activities Residential Mortgage Loans. Our primary lending activity is the origination of mortgage loans to enable borrowers to purchase or refinance existing homes located in the greater Pittsburgh metropolitan area. We offer fixed and adjustable rate mortgage loans with terms up to 30 years. K-2 Table of Contents Interest rates and payments on our adjustable rate mortgage loans generally adjust annually after an initial fixed period that ranges from one to ten years. Interest rates and payments on our adjustable rate loans generally are adjusted to a rate typically equal to 2.75% or 3.00% above the applicable index. We use the one year constant maturity Treasury index for loans that adjust annually and the three year constant maturity Treasury index for loans that adjust every three years. The maximum amount by which the interest rate may be increased or decreased is generally 2% per adjustment period and the lifetime interest rate cap is generally 6% over the initial interest rate of the loan. Borrower demand for adjustable versus fixed rate loans is a function of the level of interest rates, the expectations of changes in the level of interest rates, and the difference between the interest rates and loan fees offered for fixed rate mortgage loans and the initial period interest rates and loan fees for adjustable rate loans. The relative amount of fixed and adjustable rate mortgage loans that can be originated at any time is largely determined by the demand for each in a competitive environment. We currently have a low demand for our adjustable rate mortgage loans. The loan fees charged, interest rates and other provisions of mortgage loans are determined by us on the basis of our own pricing criteria and competitive market conditions. Prior to 2006, we purchased newly originated, single family, fixed rate mortgage loans to supplement our origination activities. The properties securing the loans are located in 13 states around the country. We underwrote all of the purchased loans to the same standards as loans originated by us. We may purchase additional loans in the future to supplement our origination activities. At December 31, 2011, we had 103 purchased residential loans that totaled $16.3 million. Of these, 40 loans totaling $5.1 million were secured by homes in Michigan and 25 loans totaling $5.1 million were secured by homes in Ohio. While residential real estate loans are normally originated with up to 30 year terms, such loans may remain outstanding for shorter periods because borrowers often prepay their loans in full upon sale of the property pledged as security or upon refinancing the original loan. Therefore, average loan maturity is a function of, among other factors, the level of purchase and sale activity in the real estate market, prevailing interest rates and the interest rates payable on outstanding loans. We generally do not make conventional loans with loan-to-value ratios exceeding 97%. Loans with loan-to-value ratios in excess of 80% generally require private mortgage insurance or additional collateral. We require all properties securing mortgage loans to be appraised by a board-approved, independent appraiser. We generally require title insurance on all first mortgage loans. Borrowers must obtain hazard insurance, and flood insurance for loans on property located in a flood zone, before closing the loan. In an effort to provide financing for low and moderate income and first-time buyers, we offer a special home buyers program. We offer residential mortgage loans through this program to qualified individuals and originate the loans using modified underwriting guidelines, including reduced fees and loan conditions. We do not engage in subprime or Alt-A lending. Commercial and Multi-Family Real Estate Loans. We offer a variety of fixed and adjustable rate mortgage loans secured by commercial property and multi-family real estate. These loans generally have terms of ten years with a 20 year amortization and are typically secured by apartment buildings, office buildings, or manufacturing facilities. Loans are secured by first mortgages, and amounts generally do not exceed 80% of the property’s appraised value. In addition to originating these loans, we also purchase and sell participation loans originated with other financial institutions in the region. Prior to 2006, we purchased newly originated multi-family real estate loans as part of our efforts to increase our loan portfolio. The properties securing the loans are located in six states throughout the country. We sought geographic diversification among the purchased loans so that we would not concentrate exposure to changes in any particular local or regional economy. We underwrote all of the purchased loans to the same standards as loans originated by us. At December 31, 2011, purchased multi-family real estate loans totaled $5.1 million. K-3 Table of Contents At December 31, 2011, our largest multi-family real estate loan was $3.6 million and was secured by a 10 building apartment complex. Our largest commercial real estate loan was a $2.4 million line of credit secured by a commercial property with $1.6 million outstanding. These loans were performing in accordance with their original terms at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2011, loan participations at other financial institutions totaled $9.3 million. All of the properties securing these loans are located in the Pittsburgh metropolitan area. Our largest participation loan was $1.3 million. Construction Loans. We originate loans to individuals to finance the construction of residential dwellings. We also make loans for the construction of commercial properties, including apartment buildings and owner-occupied properties used for businesses. Our construction loans generally provide for the payment of interest only during the construction phase, which is usually 12 months. At the end of the construction phase, the loan generally converts to a permanent mortgage loan. Loans generally can be made with a maximum loan-to-value ratio of 97% on residential construction and 80% on commercial construction. Loans with loan-to-value ratios in excess of 80% on residential construction generally require private mortgage insurance or additional collateral. Before making a commitment to fund a construction loan, we require an appraisal of the property by an independent licensed appraiser. We also will require an inspection of the property before disbursement of funds during the term of the construction loan. At December 31, 2011, our largest outstanding residential construction loan commitment was for $1.3 million, of which $123,000 had been disbursed. At December 31, 2011, our largest outstanding commercial construction commitment was a $7.3 million participation loan that was originated internally. The Bank has retained a $2.1 million interest in the loan, of which $1.7 million had been disbursed. These loans were performing in accordance with their original terms at December 31, 2011. Commercial Business Loans. We originate commercial business loans to professionals and small businesses in our market area. We offer installment loans for a variety of business needs including capital improvements and equipment acquisition. Other commercial loans are secured by business assets such as accounts receivable, inventory, and equipment, and are typically backed by the personal guarantee of the borrower. We originate working capital lines of credit to finance the short-term needs of businesses. These credit lines are repaid by seasonal cash flows from operations and are also typically backed by the personal guarantee of the borrower. We also originate commercial leases through a Pittsburgh area machinery and equipment leasing company. These leases are secured by machinery and equipment. At December 31, 2011, we had 15 equipment leases totaling $3.6 million. When evaluating commercial business loans, we perform a detailed financial analysis of the borrower and/or guarantor which includes but is not limited to: cash flow and balance sheet analysis, debt service capabilities, review of industry (geographic and economic conditions) and collateral analysis. We independently underwrite in accordance with our commercial loan policy all of the equipment leases that we originate through the third-party leasing company. At December 31, 2011, our largest commercial business loan relationship was a $2.0 million warehouse line of credit, of which $1.7 million was outstanding. This loan was performing in accordance with its original terms at December 31, 2011. Consumer Loans. Our consumer loans include home equity lines of credit, home equity installment loans, loans on savings accounts, and personal lines of credit and installment loans. The procedures for underwriting consumer loans include an assessment of the applicant’s payment history on other debts and ability to meet existing obligations and payments on the proposed loan. Although the applicant’s creditworthiness is a primary consideration, the underwriting process also includes a comparison of the value of the collateral, if any, to the proposed loan amount. K-4 Table of Contents We offer home equity installment loans and home equity lines of credit. In 2007, we discontinued offering home equity loans with a maximum loan-to-value ratio greater than 100%. Home equity lines of credit have adjustable rates of interest that are indexed to the prime rate. Home equity installment loans have fixed interest rates and terms that range up to 30 years. We also offer secured and unsecured consumer loans that have fixed interest rates and terms that can range from one to 10 years. Loan Underwriting Risks Adjustable Rate Loans. While we anticipate that adjustable rate loans will better offset the adverse effects of an increase in interest rates as compared to fixed rate mortgages, the increased mortgage payments required of adjustable rate loan borrowers in a rising interest rate environment could cause an increase in delinquencies and defaults. In addition, although adjustable rate mortgage loans help make our asset base more responsive to changes in interest rates, the extent of this interest sensitivity is limited by the annual and lifetime interest rate adjustment limits. Commercial and Multi-Family Real Estate Loans. Loans secured by commercial and multi-family real estate generally have larger balances and involve a greater degree of risk than residential mortgage loans. Of primary concern in commercial and multi-family real estate lending is the borrower’s creditworthiness and cash flow potential of the project. Payments on loans secured by income properties often depend on successful operation and management of the properties. As a result, repayment of such loans may be subject to a greater extent than residential real estate loans to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy. To monitor cash flow on income properties, we require borrowers and/or guarantors to provide annual financial statements regarding the commercial and multi-family real estate. In reaching a decision on whether to grant a commercial or multi-family real estate loan, we consider the cash flow of the property, the borrower’s expertise, credit history and profitability, and the value of the underlying property. We also may look to the financial strength of any related entities in approving the request. We have generally required that the properties securing these real estate loans have a debt service coverage ratio (cash flow available to service debt/debt service) of at least 1.25x and a leverage ratio (debt-to-worth) of less than 3.0x. Environmental surveys are obtained for requests greater than $1.0 million or when circumstances suggest the possibility of the presence of hazardous materials. We underwrite all commercial loan participations to the same standards as loans originated by us. In addition, we also consider the financial strength and reputation of the lead lender. We require the lead lender to provide a full closing package as well as annual financial statements for the borrower and related entities so that we can conduct an annual loan review for all loan participations. Construction Loans. Construction financing is generally considered to involve a higher degree of risk of loss than long-term financing on improved, occupied real estate. Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely upon the accuracy of the initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost (including interest) of construction. During the construction phase, a number of factors could result in delays and cost overruns. If the estimate of construction costs proves to be inaccurate, we may be required to advance funds beyond the amount originally committed to permit completion of the building. If the estimate of value proves to be inaccurate, we may be confronted, at or before the maturity of the loan, with a building having a value which is insufficient to assure full repayment. If we are forced to foreclose on a building before or at completion due to a default, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover all of the unpaid balance of, and accrued interest on, the loan as well as related foreclosure and holding costs. Commercial Business Loans. Commercial business loans are higher risk and typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the business. As a result, the availability of funds for the repayment of commercial loans may depend substantially on the success of the business itself. A debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.25x and a leverage ratio of less than 3.0x are also applicable to commercial business loans. Further, any collateral securing such loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value. We also maintain allowable advance rates for each collateral type to ensure coverage. K-5 Table of Contents Consumer Loans. Consumer loans may entail greater risk than do residential mortgage loans, particularly in the case of consumer loans that are unsecured or secured by assets that depreciate rapidly. In such cases, repossessed collateral for a defaulted consumer loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment for the outstanding loan and the remaining deficiency often does not warrant further substantial collection efforts against the borrower. In addition, consumer loan collections depend on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and therefore are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness or personal bankruptcy. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including federal and state bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on such loans. Loan Originations, Purchases and Sales. Loan originations come from a number of sources. The primary source of loan originations are telephone marketing efforts, existing customers, walk-in traffic, loan brokers, advertising and referrals from customers. We have a relationship with a mortgage broker through which we originate a substantial portion of our residential mortgage loans, and we have a relationship with a commercial leasing company through which we originate commercial equipment leases. We generally originate loans for our portfolio and have not sold any loans in recent years. Prior to 2006, we had purchased loans to supplement our own loan originations. Loan Approval Procedures and Authority. Our lending activities follow written, nondiscriminatory, underwriting standards and loan origination procedures established by our board of directors and management. The board of directors has granted certain loan approval authority to a committee of officers. The loan committee approves all residential mortgages, construction loans and consumer loans. All commercial and multi-family loans over $500,000 and loans or extensions of credit to insiders require the approval of the board of directors. All commercial loans up to $500,000 require approval from a committee that includes two executive officers. Loans to One Borrower. The maximum amount that we may lend to one borrower and the borrower’s related entities is limited, by regulation, to generally 15.0% of our unimpaired capital and surplus. At December 31, 2011, our regulatory limit on loans to one borrower was $6.8 million. At that date, our largest lending relationship was a $3.6 million multi-family loan. This loan was performing in accordance with its original terms at December 31, 2011. Loan Commitments. We issue commitments for fixed and adjustable rate mortgage and commercial loans conditioned upon the occurrence of certain events. Commitments to originate mortgage loans are legally binding agreements to lend to our customers. Generally, our loan commitments expire after 45 days. Investment Activities We have legal authority to invest in various types of liquid assets, including U.S. Treasury obligations, Government-sponsored enterprise securities and securities of various federal agencies and of state and municipal governments, mortgage-backed securities and certificates of deposit of federally insured institutions. Within certain regulatory limits, we also may invest a portion of our assets in corporate securities and mutual funds. We also are required to maintain an investment in Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Pittsburgh stock. While we have the authority under applicable law and our investment policies to invest in derivative securities, we have never invested in such investments. At December 31, 2011, our investment portfolio consisted of Government-sponsored enterprise securities, municipal bonds, mortgage-backed securities issued primarily by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, guaranteed REMIC pass-through certificates, and corporate debt securities. Our investment objectives are to provide and maintain liquidity, to provide collateral for pledging requirements, to establish an acceptable level of interest rate and credit risk, to provide an alternate source of investment when demand for loans is weak and to generate a favorable return. Our board of directors has the overall responsibility for the investment portfolio, including approval of the investment policy and appointment of the Investment Committee. The Investment Committee consists of four of our executive officers. The Investment Committee is responsible for implementation of the investment policy and monitoring our investment performance. Individual investment transactions are reviewed and ratified by the board of directors on a monthly basis. K-6 Table of Contents Insurance Activities We conduct insurance brokerage activities through our 80%-owned subsidiary, Exchange Underwriters. Exchange Underwriters is a full-service, independent insurance agency that offers a variety of property and casualty, liability, and other insurance products for small businesses and individuals through over 25 insurance carriers. Exchange Underwriters is licensed in more than 35 states. In addition to serving businesses and individuals in the Pittsburgh metropolitan areas, Exchange Underwriters has developed specialty programs that are sold nationwide. Exchange Underwriters generates revenues primarily from commissions paid by insurance companies with respect to the placement of insurance products. Commission revenue includes contingent commissions, which are commissions paid by an insurance carrier that are based on the overall profit and/or volume of the business placed with that insurance carrier during a particular calendar year. In March 2009, Exchange Underwriters expanded its operation through the acquisition of the Allsurance Insurance Agency, which is a full-service, independent insurance agency that offers insurance for individuals and small businesses. Deposit Activities and Other Sources of Funds General. Deposits, borrowings and loan repayments are the major sources of our funds for lending and other investment purposes. Loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, while deposit inflows and outflows and loan prepayments are significantly influenced by general interest rates and economic conditions. Deposit Accounts. Substantially all of our depositors are residents of Pennsylvania. Deposits are attracted from within our market area through the offering of a broad selection of deposit products such as noninterest-bearing demand deposits (such as checking accounts), interest-bearing demand accounts (such as NOW and money market accounts), statement savings accounts and certificates of deposit (including individual retirement accounts). Deposit products are supported by services including internet banking, bill pay and telephone banking. Deposit account terms vary according to the minimum balance required, the time periods the funds must remain on deposit and the interest rate, among other factors. In determining the terms of our deposit accounts, we consider the rates offered by our competition, liquidity needs, profitability, matching deposit and loan products and customer preferences and concerns. We generally review our deposit mix and pricing weekly. Our current strategy is to offer competitive rates on all types of deposit products. In addition to accounts for individuals, we also offer deposit accounts designed for the businesses operating in our market area. Our business banking deposit products include commercial checking accounts, money market accounts, sweep services and remote electronic deposit. At December 31, 2011, we did not have any brokered deposits. Borrowings. We utilize advances from the FHLB and, to a limited extent, repurchase agreements to supplement our supply of investable funds. The Bank also has the ability to borrow from the Federal Reserve based upon eligible collateral. The FHLB functions as a central reserve bank providing credit for member financial institutions. As a member, we are required to own capital stock in the FHLB and are authorized to apply for advances on the security of such stock and certain of our mortgage loans and other assets (principally securities which are obligations of, or guaranteed by, the United States or Government-sponsored enterprises), provided certain standards related to creditworthiness have been met. Advances are made under several different programs, each having its own interest rate and range of maturities. Depending on the program, limitations on the amount of advances are based either on a fixed percentage of an institution’s net worth or on the FHLB’s assessment of the institution’s creditworthiness. Personnel At December 31, 2011, we had 86 full-time equivalent employees, including 17 employees of our insurance agency subsidiary, none of whom is represented by a collective bargaining unit. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good. K-7 Table of Contents Subsidiaries FedFirst Financial’s only direct subsidiary is First Federal Savings Bank. First Federal Savings Bank’s only direct subsidiary is FedFirst Exchange Corporation. FedFirst Exchange Corporation owns an 80% interest in Exchange Underwriters. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Our executive officers are elected annually by the board of directors and serve at the board’s discretion. The following individuals currently serve as executive officers of FedFirst Financial and First Federal Savings Bank. Name Position Patrick G. O’Brien President and Chief Executive Officer of FedFirst Financial and First Federal Savings Bank Jamie L. Prah Senior Vice President—Chief Financial Officer of FedFirst Financial and First Federal Savings Bank and Assistant Corporate Secretary of First Federal Savings. Richard B. Boyer Vice President—Insurance Operations of First Federal Savings Bank and President of Exchange Underwriters, Inc. Henry B. Brown III Senior Vice President—Chief Lending Officer of First Federal Savings Bank Geraldine A. Ferrara Vice President—Manager Branch Service and Sales of First Federal Savings Bank Jennifer L. George Senior Vice President—Chief Risk Officer of First Federal Savings Bank and Corporate Secretary of FedFirst Financial and First Federal Savings Bank. DaCosta Smith, III Vice President—Manager Human Resources of First Federal Savings Bank and Vice President of FedFirst Financial Below is information regarding our executive officers who are not also directors. Each executive officer has held his or her current position for at least the last five years unless stated otherwise. Ages presented are as of December 31, 2011. Jamie L. Prah was appointed as Senior Vice President – Chief Financial Officer of FedFirst Financial and First Federal in September 2011 after previously serving as Vice President—Controller and Treasurer of First Federal since February 2005. In 2010, Mr. Prah was also appointed Assistant Corporate Secretary of First Federal. Age 41. Henry B. Brown III was appointed as Senior Vice President – Chief Lending Officer in September 2011 after previously serving as Vice President—Manager Production & Credit of First Federal since August 2007. Prior to joining First Federal, Mr. Brown served as Senior Vice President—Treasury Management at WesBanco Bank, Inc. from May 2005 to August 2007. Age 60. Geraldine A. Ferrara was appointed as Vice President – Manager Branch Services and Sales in August 2006 after previously serving as Vice President—Consumer Sales Manager since October 2005. Prior to working with First Federal, Ms. Ferrara served as Vice President—Market Manager at PNC Bank from June 2004 to October 2005. Age 60. Jennifer L. George was appointed as Senior Vice President – Chief Risk Officer in September 2011 after previously serving as Vice President—Bank Operations since July 2007. Ms. George joined First Federal in January 2006 as Assistant Controller. In 2010, Ms. George was also appointed Corporate Secretary of FedFirst Financial and First Federal. Prior to working with First Federal, Ms. George served as Accounts Payable Manager with Del Monte Foods from April 2005 to December 2005. Age 40. DaCosta Smith, III has served as the Vice President—Manager Human Resources for First Federal since 1992. Age 56. K-8 Table of Contents REGULATION AND SUPERVISION General As a savings and loan holding company, FedFirst Financial is required by federal law to report to, and otherwise comply with the rules and regulations of, the Federal Reserve Board (“FRB”). The Bank, as an insured federal savings association, is subject to extensive regulation, examination and supervision by the OCC, as its primary federal regulator, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), as the insurer of its deposits. The Bank is a member of the FHLB System and, with respect to deposit insurance, of the Deposit Insurance Fund managed by the FDIC. The Bank must file reports with the OCC and the FDIC concerning its activities and financial condition and obtain regulatory approvals prior to entering into certain transactions such as mergers with, or acquisitions of, other savings associations. The OCC and/or the FDIC conduct periodic examinations to test the Bank’s safety and soundness and compliance with various regulatory requirements. This regulation and supervision establishes a comprehensive framework of activities in which an institution can engage and is intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. The regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. Any change in such regulatory requirements and policies, whether by the OCC, the FRB, the FDIC or Congress, could have a material adverse impact on FedFirst Financial, the Bank and their operations. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in 2010, makes extensive changes in the regulation and supervision of federal savings institutions like the Bank. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the OTS was eliminated, and responsibility for the supervision and regulation of federal savings banks was transferred to the OCC, the agency that regulates national banks. The OCC assumed primary responsibility for examining the Bank and implementing and enforcing many of the laws and regulations applicable to federal savings institutions. At the same time, the responsibility for supervising and regulating savings and loan holding companies, such as FedFirst Financial, was transferred to the FRB. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act created a new agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, as an independent bureau of the FRB, to take over the implementation of federal consumer financial protection and fair lending laws from the depository institution regulators. However, institutions of $10 billion or fewer in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with such laws and regulations by, and subject to the enforcement authority of, their primary federal regulator rather than the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Certain regulatory requirements applicable to the Bank and to FedFirst Financial are referred to below or elsewhere herein. The summary of statutory provisions and regulations applicable to savings associations and their holding companies set forth below and elsewhere in this document does not purport to be a complete description of such statutes and regulations and their effects on the Bank and FedFirst Financial and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual laws and regulations. K-9 Table of Contents Holding Company Regulation Activities Restrictions. FedFirst Financial is a unitary savings and loan holding company within the meaning of federal law. As a unitary savings and loan holding company that was in existence prior to May 4, 1999, FedFirst Financial is generally not restricted as to the types of business activities in which it may engage, provided that the Bank continues to be a qualified thrift lender. See “Federal Savings Association Regulation - QTL Test.” No company may acquire control of a savings association unless that company engages only in the financial activities permitted for financial holding companies under the law (which includes those permitted for bank holding companies) or for multiple savings and loan holding companies as described below. Upon any non-supervisory acquisition by FedFirst Financial of another savings association or savings bank that meets the qualified thrift lender test and is deemed to be a savings association by the OCC, FedFirst Financial would become a multiple savings and loan holding company (if the acquired institution is held as a separate subsidiary) and would generally be limited to activities permissible for bank holding companies, subject to the prior approval of the FRB, and certain activities authorized by FRB regulation. In addition, FedFirst Financial may also engage in activities permitted for financial holding companies under certain conditions, including the filing of an election to be treated as a financial holding company with the FRB. A savings and loan holding company is prohibited from, directly or indirectly, acquiring more than 5% of the voting stock of another savings association or savings and loan holding company, without prior written approval of the FRB and from acquiring or retaining control of a depository institution that is not insured by the FDIC. The FRB may not approve any acquisition that would result in a multiple savings and loan holding company controlling savings associations in more than one state, subject to two exceptions: (i) the approval of interstate supervisory acquisitions by savings and loan holding companies; and (ii) the acquisition of a savings association in another state if the laws of the state of the target savings association specifically permit such acquisitions. The states vary in the extent to which they permit interstate savings and loan holding company acquisitions. Capital. Savings and loan holding companies are not currently subject to specific regulatory capital requirements. The Dodd-Frank Act, however, requires the FRB to promulgate consolidated capital requirements for depository institution holding companies that are no less stringent, both quantitatively and in terms of components of capital, than those applicable to institutions themselves. There is a five-year transition period before the capital requirements will apply to savings and loan holding companies. Instruments such as cumulative preferred stock and trust preferred securities will not be includable as Tier 1 capital, except that instruments issued before May 19, 2010 will be grandfathered for companies with consolidated assets of $15 billion or less. The Dodd-Frank Act also extends the “source of strength” doctrine to savings and loan holding companies. The regulatory agencies must issue regulations requiring that all bank and savings and loan holding companies serve as a source of strength to their subsidiary depository institutions, which will require holding companies to provide capital and other support to their subsidiary institutions in times of financial distress. Source of Strength. The Dodd-Frank Act also extends the “source of strength” doctrine to savings and loan holding companies. The regulatory agencies must issue regulations requiring that all bank and savings and loan holding companies serve as a source of strength to their subsidiary depository institutions by providing capital, liquidity and other support in times of financial stress. K-10 Table of Contents Acquisition of FedFirst Financial. Under the Federal Change in Control Act, a notice must be submitted to the FRB if any person (including a company or savings association), or group acting in concert, seeks to acquire direct or indirect “control” of a savings and loan holding company or savings association. Under certain circumstances, a change of control may occur, and prior notice is required, upon the acquisition of 10% or more of FedFirst Financial’s outstanding voting stock, unless the FRB has found that the acquisition will not result in control of FedFirst Financial. A change in control definitively occurs upon the acquisition of 25% or more of FedFirst Financial’s outstanding voting stock. Under the Change in Control Act, the FRB generally has 60 days from the filing of a complete notice to act, taking into consideration certain factors, including the financial and managerial resources of the acquirer and the competitive effects of the acquisition. Any company that acquires control would then be subject to regulation as a savings and loan holding company. Federal Savings Association Regulation Business Activities. The activities of federal savings associations are governed by federal laws and regulations. Those laws and regulations delineate the nature and extent of the business activities in which federal savings associations may engage. In particular, certain lending authority for federal savings banks, e.g., commercial, non-residential real property loans and consumer loans, is limited to a specified percentage of the institution’s capital or assets. The Dodd-Frank Act authorized the payment of interest on commercial checking accounts, effective July 21, 2011. Capital Requirements. Federal savings associations must meet three minimum capital standards: a 1.5% tangible capital to total assets ratio; a 4% tier 1 capital to total assets leverage ratio (3% for institutions receiving the highest rating on the CAMELS examination rating system) and an 8% risk-based capital ratio. In addition, the prompt corrective action standards discussed below also establish, in effect, a minimum 2% tangible capital standard, a 4% leverage ratio (3% for institutions receiving the highest rating on the CAMELS system) and, together with the risk-based capital standard itself, a 4% Tier 1 risk-based capital standard. The risk-based capital standard for savings associations requires the maintenance of Tier 1 (core) and total capital (which is defined as core capital and supplementary capital less certain specified deductions from total capital such as reciprocal holdings of depository institution capital instruments and equity investments) to risk-weighted assets of at least 4% and 8%, respectively. In determining the amount of risk-weighted assets, all assets, including certain off-balance sheet activities, recourse obligations, residual interests and direct credit substitutes, are multiplied by a risk-weight factor of 0% to 100%, assigned by the OCC capital regulation based on the risks believed inherent in the type of asset. The OCC also has authority to establish individual minimum capital requirements in appropriate cases upon a determination that an institution’s capital level is or may become inadequate in light of the particular circumstances. At December 31, 2011, the Bank met each of its capital requirements. Prompt Corrective Regulatory Action. The OCC is required to take certain supervisory actions against undercapitalized institutions, the severity of which depends upon the institution’s degree of undercapitalization. In addition, numerous mandatory supervisory actions become immediately applicable to an undercapitalized institution, including, but not limited to, increased monitoring by regulators and restrictions on growth, capital distributions and expansion. The OCC could also take any one of a number of discretionary supervisory actions, including the issuance of a capital directive and the replacement of senior executive officers and directors. Significantly and critically undercapitalized institutions are subject to additional mandatory and discretionary measures. Insurance of Deposit Accounts. The Bank’s deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the FDIC. K-11 Table of Contents Under the FDIC’s risk-based assessment system, insured institutions are assigned to one of four risk categories based on supervisory evaluations, regulatory capital levels and certain other factors, with less risky institutions paying lower assessments. An institution’s assessment rate depends upon the category to which it is assigned, and certain adjustments specified by FDIC regulations. Assessment rates currently range from seven to 77.5 basis points. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has revised its procedures to base its assessments upon total assets less tangible equity instead of deposits. The FDIC may adjust the scale uniformly, except that no adjustment can deviate more than three basis points from the base scale without notice and comment. No institution may pay a dividend if in default of the federal deposit insurance assessment. The FDIC required insured institutions to prepay estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 through the fourth quarter of 2012. The estimated assessments, which included an assumed annual assessment base increase of 5%, were recorded as a prepaid expense asset as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, and each quarter thereafter, a charge to earnings is recorded for each regular assessment with an offsetting credit to the prepaid asset. Due to the recent difficult economic conditions, deposit insurance per account owner has been raised to $250,000. That coverage was made permanent by the Dodd-Frank Act. In addition, the FDIC adopted an optional Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program by which, for a fee, noninterest-bearing transaction accounts would receive unlimited insurance coverage until June 30, 2010, subsequently extended to December 31, 2010, and certain senior unsecured debt issued by institutions and their holding companies between October 13, 2008 and October 31, 2009 would be guaranteed by the FDIC through June 30, 2012, or in some cases, December 31, 2012. The Bank opted to participate in the unlimited noninterest-bearing transaction account coverage and the Bank and FedFirst Financial opted not to participate in the unsecured debt guarantee program. The Dodd-Frank Act extended the unlimited coverage for certain noninterest-bearing transaction accounts from January 1, 2011 until December 31, 2012 without the opportunity for opt out. The FDIC has authority to increase insurance assessments. A significant increase in insurance premiums would likely have an adverse effect on the operating expenses and results of operations of the Bank. Management cannot predict what insurance assessment rates will be in the future. Loans to One Borrower. Federal law provides that savings associations are generally subject to the limits on loans to one borrower applicable to national banks. Generally, subject to certain exceptions, a savings association may not make a loan or extend credit to a single or related group of borrowers in excess of 15% of its unimpaired capital and surplus. An additional amount may be lent, equal to 10% of unimpaired capital and surplus, if secured by specified readily-marketable collateral. QTL Test. Federal law requires savings associations to meet a qualified thrift lender test. Under the test, a savings association is required to either qualify as a “domestic building and loan association” under the Internal Revenue Code or maintain at least 65% of its “portfolio assets” (total assets less: (i) specified liquid assets up to 20% of total assets; (ii) intangibles, including goodwill; and (iii) the value of property used to conduct business) in certain “qualified thrift investments” (primarily residential mortgages and related investments, including certain mortgage-backed securities but also including education, credit card and small business loans) in at least 9 months out of each 12 month period. A savings association that fails the qualified thrift lender test is subject to certain operating restrictions, including dividend limitations. The Dodd-Frank Act made noncompliance with the qualified thrift lender test subject to agency enforcement action as a violation of law. As of December 31, 2011, the Bank maintained 84.3% of its portfolio assets in qualified thrift investments and, therefore, met the qualified thrift lender test. K-12 Table of Contents Limitation on Capital Distributions. FRB and OCC regulations impose limitations upon all capital distributions by a savings association, including cash dividends, payments to repurchase its shares and payments to shareholders of another institution in a cash-out merger. Under the regulations, a notice must be filed with the FRB 30 days prior to declaring a dividend, with a notice to the OCC. The FRB may disapprove a dividend notice if the proposed dividend raises safety and soundness concerns, the institution would be undercapitalized following the distribution or the distribution would otherwise be contrary to a statute, regulation or agreement with the OCC. In the event the Bank’s capital fell below its regulatory requirements or the OCC notified it that it was in need of increased supervision, the Bank’s ability to make capital distributions could be restricted. In addition, the FRB could prohibit a proposed capital distribution by any institution, which would otherwise be permitted by the regulation, if the FRB determines that such distribution would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Transactions with Related Parties. The Bank’s authority to engage in transactions with “affiliates” (e.g., any entity that controls or is under common control with the Bank, including FedFirst Financial and its other subsidiaries) is limited by federal law. The aggregate amount of covered transactions with any individual affiliate is limited to 10% of the capital and surplus of the savings association. The aggregate amount of covered transactions with all affiliates is limited to 20% of the savings association’s capital and surplus. Certain transactions with affiliates are required to be secured by collateral in an amount and of a type specified by federal law. The purchase of low quality assets from affiliates is generally prohibited. Transactions with affiliates must generally be on terms and under circumstances, that are at least as favorable to the institution as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with non-affiliated companies. In addition, savings associations are prohibited from lending to any affiliate that is engaged in activities that are not permissible for bank holding companies and no savings association may purchase the securities of any affiliate other than a subsidiary. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 generally prohibits loans by FedFirst Financial to its executive officers and directors. However, the law contains a specific exception for loans by a depository institution to its executive officers and directors in compliance with federal banking laws. Under such laws, the Bank’s authority to extend credit to executive officers, directors and 10% shareholders (“insiders”), as well as entities such persons control is limited. The laws limit both the individual and aggregate amount of loans that the Bank may make to insiders based, in part, on the Bank’s capital level and requires that certain board approval procedures be followed. Such loans are required to be made on terms substantially the same as those offered to unaffiliated individuals and not involve more than the normal risk of repayment. There is an exception for loans made pursuant to a benefit or compensation program that is widely available to all employees of the institution and does not give preference to insiders over other employees. Loans to executive officers are subject to additional limitations based on the type of loan involved. Enforcement. The OCC has primary enforcement responsibility over savings associations and has authority to bring actions against the institution and all institution-affiliated parties, including stockholders, and any attorneys, appraisers and accountants who knowingly or recklessly participate in wrongful action likely to have an adverse effect on an insured institution. Formal enforcement action may range from the issuance of a capital directive or cease and desist order to removal of officers and/or directors to institution of receivership, conservatorship or termination of deposit insurance. Civil penalties cover a wide range of violations and can amount to $25,000 per day, or even $1 million per day in especially egregious cases. The FDIC has the authority to recommend to the Director of the OCC that enforcement action be taken with respect to a particular savings association. If action is not taken by the Director, the FDIC has authority to take such action under certain circumstances. Federal law also establishes criminal penalties for certain violations. FHLB System The Bank is a member of the FHLB System, which consists of twelve (12) regional Federal Home Loan Banks. The FHLB provides a central credit facility primarily for member institutions. The Bank, as a member of the FHLB of Pittsburgh, is required to acquire and hold shares of capital stock in that FHLB. The Bank was in compliance with this requirement with an investment in FHLB of Pittsburgh stock at December 31, 2011 of $5.3 million. K-13 Table of Contents The Federal Home Loan Banks have been required to provide funds for the resolution of insolvent thrifts in the late 1980s and contribute funds for affordable housing programs. These and similar requirements, or general economic conditions, could reduce the amount of dividends that the Federal Home Loan Banks pay to their members and result in the Federal Home Loan Banks imposing a higher rate of interest on advances to their members. If dividends were reduced, or interest on future FHLB advances increased, the Bank’s net interest income would likely also be reduced. Federal Reserve System The FRB regulations require savings associations to maintain non-interest earning reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily Negotiable Order of Withdrawal (NOW) and regular checking accounts). For 2011, the regulations provided that reserves be maintained against aggregate transaction accounts as follows: a 3% reserve ratio was assessed on net transaction accounts up to and including $58.8 million; a 10% reserve ratio was applied above $58.8 million. The first $10.7 million of otherwise reservable balances were exempted from the reserve requirements. These amounts are adjusted annually and, for 2012, require a 3% ratio for up to $71.0 million and an exemption of $11.5 million. The Bank complies with the foregoing requirements. FEDERAL AND STATE TAXATION Federal Income Taxation General. We report our income on a fiscal year basis using the accrual method of accounting. The federal income tax laws apply to us in the same manner as to other corporations with some exceptions, including particularly, our reserve for bad debts, discussed below. The following discussion of tax matters is intended only as a summary and does not purport to be a comprehensive description of the tax rules applicable to us. Our federal income tax returns have been either audited or closed under the statute of limitations through tax year 2007. For its 2011 fiscal year, FedFirst Financial’s maximum federal income tax rate was 34%. FedFirst Financial and the Bank have entered into a tax allocation agreement. Because FedFirst Financial owns 100% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of the Bank, FedFirst Financial and the Bank are members of an affiliated group within the meaning of Section 1504(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, of which group FedFirst Financial is the common parent corporation. As a result of this affiliation, The Bank may be included in the filing of a consolidated federal income tax return with FedFirst Financial and, if a decision to file a consolidated tax return is made, the parties agree to compensate each other for their individual share of the consolidated tax liability and/or any tax benefits provided by them in the filing of the consolidated federal income tax return. Bad Debt Reserves. For fiscal years beginning before 1996, thrift institutions that qualified under certain definitional tests and other conditions of the Internal Revenue Code were permitted to use certain favorable provisions to calculate their deductions from taxable income for annual additions to their bad debt reserve. A reserve could be established for bad debts on qualifying real property loans, generally secured by interests in real property improved or to be improved, under the percentage of taxable income method or the experience method. The reserve for nonqualifying loans was computed using the experience method. Federal legislation enacted in 1996 repealed the reserve method of accounting for bad debts and the percentage of taxable income method for tax years beginning after 1995 and require savings institutions to recapture or take into income certain portions of their accumulated bad debt reserves. Approximately $2.5 million of FedFirst Financial’s accumulated bad debt reserves would not be recaptured into taxable income unless the Bank makes a “non-dividend distribution” to FedFirst Financial as described below. K-14 Table of Contents Distributions. If the Bank makes “non-dividend distributions” to FedFirst Financial, the distributions will be considered to have been made from the Bank’s unrecaptured tax bad debt reserves, including the balance of its reserves as of December 31, 1987, to the extent of the “non-dividend distributions,” and then from the Bank’s supplemental reserve for losses on loans, to the extent of those reserves, and an amount based on the amount distributed, but not more than the amount of those reserves, will be included in the Bank’s taxable income. Non-dividend distributions include distributions in excess of the Bank’s current and accumulated earnings and profits, as calculated for federal income tax purposes, distributions in redemption of stock, and distributions in partial or complete liquidation. Dividends paid out of the Bank’s current or accumulated earnings and profits will not be so included in the Bank’s taxable income. The amount of additional taxable income triggered by a non-dividend is an amount that, when reduced by the tax attributable to the income, is equal to the amount of the distribution. Therefore, if the Bank makes a non-dividend distribution to FedFirst Financial, approximately one and one-half times the amount of the distribution not in excess of the amount of the reserves would be includable in income for federal income tax purposes, assuming a 34% federal corporate income tax rate. The Bank does not intend to pay dividends that would result in a recapture of any portion of its bad debt reserves. State Taxation FedFirst Financial and its non-thrift Pennsylvania subsidiaries are subject to the Pennsylvania Corporation Net Income Tax and Capital Stock and Franchise Tax. The state Corporate Net Income Tax rate for fiscal years ended 2011, 2010 and 2009 was 9.99% and was imposed on FedFirst Financial’s and its non-thrift subsidiaries’ unconsolidated taxable income for federal purposes with certain adjustments. In general, the Capital Stock Tax is a property tax imposed at the rate of 0.289% of a corporation’s capital stock value, which is determined in accordance with a fixed formula. In addition, the Pennsylvania mutual thrifts institutions tax is imposed at the rate of 11.5% on savings institutions, savings banks, and savings and loan associations conducting business in Pennsylvania. The mutual thrift institutions tax applies to the net earnings or income received or accrued from all sources during the tax year. In 2011 and 2010, no mutual thrift institutions tax was paid due to the utilization of state net operating loss carryforwards. There are no remaining state net operating loss carryforwards as of December 31, 2011. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A return of recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Following a national home price peak in mid-2006, falling home prices and sharply reduced sales volumes, along with the collapse of the United States’ subprime mortgage industry in early 2007, significantly contributed to a recession that officially lasted until June 2009, although the effects continued thereafter. Dramatic declines in real estate values and high levels of foreclosures resulted in significant asset write-downs by financial institutions, which have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with other institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Concerns over the United States’ credit rating (which was downgraded by Standard & Poor’s), the European sovereign debt crisis, and continued high unemployment in the United States, among other economic indicators, have contributed to increased volatility in the capital markets and diminished expectations for the economy. A return of recessionary conditions and/or continued negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further declines in real estate values and sales volumes and continued high unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies and a decline in demand for our products and services. These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity, and financial condition. K-15 Table of Contents Our emphasis on residential mortgage loans exposes us to a risk of loss due to a decline in property values. At December 31, 2011, $133.9 million, or 52.4%, of our loan portfolio consisted of residential mortgage loans, and $38.4 million, or 15.1%, of our loan portfolio consisted of home equity loans. We currently originate home equity lines of credit with maximum combined loan-to-value ratios of up to 100%. Until 2007, such loans were offered with combined loan-to-value ratios of up to 125%. Recent declines in the housing market have resulted in declines in real estate values in our market areas. These declines in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage and home equity loans to be inadequately collateralized—particularly those home equity loans that were originated with combined loan-to-value ratios in excess of 100% – which would expose us to a greater risk of loss in the event that we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral. Commercial lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2011, $77.3 million, or 30.3%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and multi-family real estate loans, commercial construction loans and commercial business loans. Commercial lending is an important part of our business strategy, and we expect this portion of our loan portfolio to continue to grow. Commercial loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the borrower’s business. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential mortgage loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a residential mortgage loan. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and earnings. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investments less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our net interest spread is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates – up or down – could adversely affect our net interest spread and, as a result, our net interest income and net interest margin. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract. This contraction could be more severe following a prolonged period of lower interest rates, as a larger proportion of our fixed rate residential loan portfolio will have been originated at those lower rates and borrowers may be more reluctant or unable to sell their homes in a higher interest rate environment. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve” – or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates – could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. The unseasoned nature of our commercial loan portfolio may expose us to increased lending risks. Many of our commercial real estate and commercial business loans are unseasoned, meaning that they were originated recently. Our limited experience with these loans does not provide us with a significant payment history pattern with which to judge future collectability. As a result, it may be difficult to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our expectations, which could negatively affect our future performance. K-16 Table of Contents If we conclude that the decline in value of any of our investment securities is other than temporary, we are required to write down the value of that security through a charge to earnings. As of December 31, 2011, our investment portfolio included 5 securities with unrealized losses of $2.6 million that we considered for other-than-temporary impairment. We evaluate our securities portfolio for other-than-temporary impairment throughout the year. Each investment that has a fair value less than book value is reviewed on a quarterly basis. An impairment charge is recorded against individual securities if management concludes that the decline in value is other than temporary. Any charges for other-than-temporary impairment would not impact cash flow, tangible capital or liquidity. Included in securities with unrealized losses are three trust preferred securities with an amortized cost of $4.0 million and a fair value of $1.5 million at December 31, 2011. The trust preferred securities were issued by two issuer pools consisting of insurance companies. A number of factors or combinations of factors could cause us to conclude in future reporting periods that these securities have experienced other-than-temporary impairment. These factors include, but are not limited to, failure to make scheduled interest payments, an increase in the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the continuous duration of the unrealized loss without an improvement in value or changes in market conditions, and industry or issuer-specific factors that would render us unable to forecast a full recovery of the amortized cost basis. Higher loan losses could require us to increase our allowance for loan losses through a charge to earnings. When we loan money we incur the risk that our borrowers will not repay their loans. We reserve for loan losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might underestimate the loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have loan losses in excess of the amount reserved. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers with adjustable-rate loans could see their payments increase. There may be a significant increase in the number of borrowers who are unable or unwilling to repay their loans, resulting in our charging off more loans and increasing our allowance. In addition, when real estate values decline, the potential severity of loss on a real estate-secured loan can increase significantly, especially in the case of loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios. In addition, our determination as to the amount of our allowance for loan losses is subject to review by our primary regulator, the OCC, as part of its examination process, which may result in the establishment of an additional allowance based upon the judgment of the OCC after a review of the information available at the time of its examination. Our allowance for loan losses amounted to 1.21% of total loans outstanding and 144% of nonperforming loans at December 31, 2011. Our allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2011, may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. A large loss could deplete the allowance and require increased provisions to replenish the allowance, which would negatively affect earnings. Our inability to retain deposits as they become due may cause us to rely more heavily on wholesale funding strategies, which could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating margins and profitability. A large percentage of our certificates of deposit have maturities of less than one year. The Bank has marketing and pricing initiatives to retain these certificates of deposit when they mature, however, there can be no guarantee that we will retain the deposits necessary to continue to fund asset growth at reasonable prices. If we are not able to maintain sufficient deposits, we will have to rely more heavily on wholesale strategies to fund our asset growth, which historically are more expensive than retail sources of funding. If we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. K-17 Table of Contents We do not control the premiums on which our insurance commissions are based, and volatility or declines in premiums may negatively impact the revenues of our insurance agency. Exchange Underwriters derives most of its revenues from commissions for brokerage services. We do not determine insurance premiums on which our commissions are generally based. Fluctuations in premiums charged by the insurance carriers have a direct and potentially material impact on Exchange Underwriters’ results of operations. Commission levels generally follow the same trend as premium levels, as commissions are derived from a percentage of the premiums paid by the insureds. Due to their cyclical nature, insurance premiums may vary widely between periods. Such variations can have a potentially material impact on our commission revenues. Contingent commissions paid by insurance companies are less predictable than standard commissions, and any decrease in the amount of contingent commissions received by Exchange Underwriters could adversely affect its results of operations. Exchange Underwriters derives a portion of its revenues from contingent commissions paid by insurance companies. Contingent commissions are special revenue-sharing commissions paid by insurance companies based upon the profitability, volume and/or growth of the business placed with such companies during the prior year. If, due to the current economic environment or for any other reason, Exchange Underwriters is unable to meet insurance companies’ profitability, volume and/or growth thresholds, and/or insurance companies increase their estimate of loss reserves, over which Exchange Underwriters has no control, actual contingent commissions received by Exchange Underwriters could be less than anticipated, which could negatively affect Exchange Underwriters’ revenues. Our market area limits our growth potential. Our offices are located primarily in small industrial communities in the southern suburban area of metropolitan Pittsburgh. Most of these communities have experienced population and economic decline as a result of the decline of the United States steel industry. Because we have an aging customer base and there is little new real estate development in several of the communities where our offices are located, the opportunities for originating loans and growing deposits in our primary market area are limited. If we are unable to grow our business it will be difficult for us to increase our earnings. Our branching strategy may not be successful. A key component of our strategy to grow and improve profitability is to expand into communities that are experiencing population growth and economic expansion. In July 2006, we opened a new branch in Peters Township in Washington County, Pennsylvania. In June 2007, we opened a new branch located in the downtown area of Washington, Pennsylvania. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in increasing the volume of our loans and deposits by expanding our branch network. Building and/or staffing new branch offices will increase our operating expenses. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to manage the costs and implementation risks associated with this strategy so that expansion of our branch network will be profitable. We own stock in the FHLB of Pittsburgh, which is experiencing financial difficulties. Our agreement with the FHLB of Pittsburgh requires us to purchase capital stock in the FHLB commensurate with the amount of our advances and unused borrowing capacity. This stock is carried at cost and was $5.3 million at December 31, 2011. If the FHLB of Pittsburgh is unable to meet minimum regulatory capital requirements or is required to aid the remaining Federal Home Loan Banks, our holding of FHLB stock may be determined to be other than temporarily impaired and may require a charge to our earnings, which could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. K-18 Table of Contents Additionally, in December 2008, the FHLB of Pittsburgh suspended payment of dividends until further notice. In February 2012, the FHLB resumed payments of dividends and future declarations will be determined on a quarterly basis going forward. Repurchases of excess capital stock have also been limited to the lesser of five percent of the member’s total capital stock outstanding or its excess capital stock outstanding and are determined on a quarterly basis. The absence of a dividend, limitations on the redemption of our FHLB stock, and the obligation to increase our investment in the FHLB would hurt our interest income. Our purchase of out-of-state loans may expose us to increased lending risks. Prior to 2006, we purchased newly originated residential and multi-family real estate loans secured by properties throughout the United States in order to supplement our own loan originations. At December 31, 2011, we had $16.3 million of purchased residential mortgage loans, of which $1.4 million were non-performing, and $5.1 million of purchased multi-family real estate loans, of which all were performing. It is difficult to assess the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio because the properties securing these loans are located outside of our market area, which makes them more difficult to monitor. We can give no assurance that these loans will not have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience, which would adversely affect our future performance. We are dependent upon the services of key executives. We rely heavily on our President and Chief Executive Officer, Patrick G. O’Brien. We also rely heavily on the President of Exchange Underwriters, Richard B. Boyer, to manage our insurance operations. The loss of Mr. O’Brien or Mr. Boyer could have a material adverse impact on our operations because, as a small company, we have fewer management-level personnel that have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have employment agreements with Messrs. O’Brien and Boyer. We maintain life insurance covering Mr. Boyer under a bank-owned life insurance program. Increased and/or special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. The recent economic recession has caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, was $155,000. In lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the FDIC required all institutions to prepay their assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. Additional increases in the base assessment rate or special assessments would negatively impact our earnings. Strong competition within our market area could reduce our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. As of June 30, 2011, which is the most recent date for which information is available, we held 0.29% of the deposits in the Pittsburgh metropolitan area and 1.8% of the deposits in the counties in which our offices are located. Several of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. K-19 Table of Contents We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the FRB, which regulates savings and loan holding companies, the OCC, which regulates all national banks and federal savings associations, and by the FDIC, as our insurer of our deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Recently enacted regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in 2010, restructures the regulation of depository institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Office of Thrift Supervision, which previously regulated the Bank, was merged into the OCC, which until then only regulated national banks. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, savings and loan holding companies, including FedFirst Financial, are now regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new federal agency to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that was formerly performed by the depository institution regulators. The federal preemption of state laws previously accorded federally chartered depository institutions has been reduced, and State Attorneys General now have greater authority to bring a suit against a federally chartered institution, such as the Bank, for violations of certain state and federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act also will impose consolidated capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies effective in five years, which will limit our ability to borrow at the holding company level and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in the Bank that could be leveraged to support additional growth. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008-2009. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. In addition to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal regulatory agencies have taken stronger supervisory actions against financial institutions that have experienced increased loan losses and other weaknesses as a result of the recent economic crisis. The actions include the entering into of written agreements and cease and desist orders that place certain limitations on their operations. Federal bank regulators recently have also been using with more frequency their ability to impose individual minimal capital requirements on banks, which requirements may be higher than those imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act or which would otherwise qualify the bank as being “well capitalized” under the FDIC’s prompt corrective action regulations. If we were to become subject to a supervisory agreement or higher individual capital requirements, such action may have a negative impact on our ability to execute our business plans, as well as our ability to grow, pay dividends or engage in mergers and acquisitions and may result in restrictions in our operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. K-20 Table of Contents 