Item 1A. Risk Factors.” These factors should be considered in evaluating the forward-looking statements and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements. FedFirst Financial Corporation assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General FedFirst Financial Corporation (“FedFirst Financial” or the “Company”) is a stock holding company established in 2010, whose wholly owned subsidiary is First Federal Savings Bank (“First Federal” or the “Bank”), a federally chartered stock savings bank. Through its wholly-owned subsidiary FedFirst Exchange Corporation (“FFEC”), the Bank has an 80% controlling interest in Exchange Underwriters, Inc. (“Exchange Underwriters”). Exchange Underwriters is a full-service, independent insurance agency that offers property and casualty, commercial liability, surety and other insurance products. The Bank operates as a community-oriented financial institution offering residential, multi-family and commercial mortgages, consumer loans and commercial business loans as well as a variety of deposit products for individuals and businesses from seven locations in southwestern Pennsylvania. The Bank conducts insurance brokerage activities through Exchange Underwriters. The Bank is subject to competition from other financial institutions and to the regulations of certain federal and state agencies and undergoes periodic examinations by those regulatory authorities. Our website address is http://www.firstfederal-savings.com. Information on our website should not be considered a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Market Area Our seven banking offices are located in Fayette, Washington and Westmoreland counties, which are located in the southern suburban area of metropolitan Pittsburgh. Generally, our offices are located in small industrial communities that, in the past, relied extensively on the steel industry. Until the mid-1970s, these communities flourished. However, the economy of our market area has diminished in direct correlation with the decline in the United States steel industry. With the decline of the steel industry, Fayette, Washington and Westmoreland counties now have smaller and more diversified economies, with employment in services constituting the primary source of employment in all three counties. The largest private-sector employers in our market area are providers of health care services. The area has been impacted by the energy industry through the extraction of untapped natural gas reserves in the Marcellus Shale. The Marcellus Shale extends throughout much of the Appalachian Basin and most of Pennsylvania and is located near high-demand markets along the east coast. The proximity to these markets makes it an attractive target for energy development and has resulted in significant job creation through the development of gas wells and transportation of gas. K - 1 In the past, the communities in which our offices are located provided a stable customer base for traditional thrift products, such as savings, certificates of deposit and residential mortgages. Following the closing of the area’s steel mills, population and employment trends declined. The population in many of the smaller communities in our market area continues to shrink as the younger population leaves to seek better and more reliable employment. As a result, the median age of our customers has been increasing. With an aging customer base and little new real estate development, the lending opportunities in our primary market area are limited. To counter these trends, we expanded into communities that are experiencing population growth and economic expansion and consolidated two offices. In 2006, we opened an office in Peters Township in Washington County. In 2007, we opened an office in the downtown area of Washington, Pennsylvania. In 2011 and 2012, we consolidated our Park Centre and Donora offices in the Middle Monongahela Valley area due to the close proximity of other branch locations. Competition We face significant competition for the attraction of deposits and origination of loans. Our most direct competition for deposits has historically come from the several financial institutions operating in our market area and from other financial service companies, such as brokerage firms, credit unions and insurance companies. We also face competition for investors’ funds from money market funds, mutual funds and other corporate and government securities. At June 30, 2013, which is the most recent date for which data is available from the FDIC, we held approximately 0.24% of the deposits in the Pittsburgh metropolitan area. Banks owned by The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc., Citizens Financial Group, Inc. and BNY Mellon also operate in our market area. These institutions, as well as many other banking institutions operating in our market area, are significantly larger and, therefore, have significantly greater resources. Our competition for loans comes primarily from financial institutions in our market area and, to a lesser extent, from other financial service providers, such as mortgage companies and mortgage brokers. Competition for loans also comes from the increasing number of non-depository financial service companies entering the mortgage market, such as insurance companies, securities companies and specialty finance companies. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Technological advances, for example, have lowered barriers to entry, allowed banks to expand their geographic reach by providing services over the Internet and made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally have been provided by banks. Competition for deposits and the origination of loans could limit our growth in the future. Lending Activities Residential Mortgage Loans. We originate mortgage loans to enable borrowers to purchase or refinance existing homes located in the greater Pittsburgh metropolitan area. We offer fixed and adjustable rate mortgage loans with terms up to 30 years. The relative amount of fixed and adjustable rate mortgage loans that can be originated at any time is largely determined by the demand for each in a competitive environment. Borrower demand for adjustable versus fixed rate loans is a function of the level of interest rates, the expectations of changes in the level of interest rates, and the difference between the interest rates and loan fees offered for fixed rate mortgage loans and the initial period interest rates and loan fees for adjustable rate loans. The loan fees charged, interest rates and other provisions of mortgage loans are determined by us on the basis of our own pricing criteria and competitive market conditions. We currently have a low demand for our adjustable rate mortgage loans. Interest rates and payments on our adjustable rate mortgage loans generally adjust annually after an initial fixed period that ranges from one to ten years. Interest rates and payments on our adjustable rate loans generally are adjusted to a rate typically equal to 2.75% or 3.00% above the applicable index. The maximum amount by which the interest rate may be increased or decreased is generally 2% per adjustment period and the lifetime interest rate cap is generally 6% over the initial interest rate of the loan. Prior to 2006, we purchased newly originated, single family, fixed rate mortgage loans to supplement our origination activities. The properties securing the loans are located in 11 states around the country. We underwrote all of the purchased loans to the same standards as loans originated by us. At December 31, 2013, we had 64 purchased residential loans that totaled $6.9 million. Of these, 29 loans totaling $3.0 million were secured by homes in Michigan and 12 loans totaling $1.7 million were secured by homes in Ohio. While residential real estate loans are normally originated with up to 30 year terms, such loans may remain outstanding for shorter periods because borrowers often prepay their loans in full upon sale of the property pledged as security or upon refinancing the original loan. Therefore, average loan maturity is a function of, among other factors, the level of purchase and sale activity in the real estate market, prevailing interest rates and the interest rates payable on outstanding loans. K - 2 We generally do not make conventional loans with loan-to-value ratios exceeding 97%. Loans with loan-to-value ratios in excess of 80% typically require private mortgage insurance or additional collateral. We require all properties securing mortgage loans to be appraised by a board-approved, independent appraiser and title insurance on all first mortgage loans. Borrowers must obtain hazard insurance, and flood insurance for loans on property located in a flood zone, before closing the loan. In an effort to provide financing for low and moderate income and first-time buyers, we offer a special home buyers program. We offer residential mortgage loans through this program to qualified individuals and originate the loans using modified underwriting guidelines, including reduced fees and loan conditions. We do not engage in subprime or Alt-A lending. Commercial and Multi-Family Real Estate Loans. We offer a variety of fixed and adjustable rate mortgage loans secured by commercial and multi-family real estate. These loans generally have terms of ten years with a 20 year amortization and are typically secured by apartment buildings, office buildings, or manufacturing facilities. Loans are secured by first mortgages, and amounts generally do not exceed 80% of the property’s appraised value. In addition to originating these loans, we also purchase participation loans originated by and sell participation loans to other financial institutions in the region. A decision on whether to grant a commercial or multi-family real estate loan is based on the cash flow of the property, the borrower’s expertise, credit history and profitability, and the value of the underlying property. We also evaluate the financial strength of any related entities in approving the request. We generally require a debt service coverage ratio (cash flow available to service debt/debt service) of at least 1.25x and a leverage ratio (debt-to-worth) of less than 3.0x. Environmental surveys are obtained for requests greater than $1.0 million or when circumstances suggest the possibility of the presence of hazardous materials. To monitor cash flow on income properties, we require borrowers and/or guarantors to provide annual financial statements regarding the commercial and multi-family real estate. We underwrite commercial loan participations to the same standards as loans originated by us. In addition, we consider the financial strength and reputation of the lead lender. We require the lead lender to provide a full closing package as well as annual financial statements for the borrower and related entities so that we can conduct an annual loan review for all loan participations. Prior to 2006, we purchased newly originated multi-family real estate loans as part of our efforts to increase our loan portfolio. The properties securing the loans are located in four states throughout the country. We sought geographic diversification among the purchased loans so that we would not concentrate exposure to changes in any particular local or regional economy. We underwrote the purchased loans to the same standards as loans originated by us. At December 31, 2013, purchased multi-family real estate loans totaled $3.8 million. At December 31, 2013, our largest multi-family real estate loan was $1.9 million and was secured by an assisted living facility. Our largest commercial real estate loan was $3.5 million purchased participation loan secured by commercial property. These loans were performing in accordance with their original terms at December 31, 2013, however the multi-family real estate loan was rated special mention due to a potential weakness identified during an annual review that may result in a further deterioration of its credit rating if uncorrected. At December 31, 2013, commercial real estate and multi-family purchased loan participations totaled $17.9 million and sold loan participations totaled $5.3 million. All of the properties securing these loans are located in the Pittsburgh metropolitan area. Our largest purchased participation loan was $3.5 million and largest sold participation loan was $2.2 million. Construction Loans. We originate loans to individuals to finance the construction of residential dwellings. We also make loans for the construction of commercial properties, including apartment buildings and owner-occupied properties used for businesses. Our construction loans generally provide for the payment of interest only during the construction phase, which is usually 12 to 18 months. At the end of the construction phase, the loan generally converts to a permanent mortgage loan. Loans generally can be made with a maximum loan-to-value ratio of 97% on residential construction and 80% on commercial construction. Loans with loan-to-value ratios in excess of 80% on residential construction generally require private mortgage insurance or additional collateral. Before making a commitment to fund a construction loan, we require an appraisal of the property by an independent licensed appraiser. We also will require an inspection of the property before disbursement of funds during the term of the construction loan. At December 31, 2013, our largest outstanding residential construction loan commitment was for $1.0 million, of which $500,000 was disbursed. At December 31, 2013, our largest outstanding commercial construction commitment was a $3.2 million purchased participation loan of which there were no disbursements. These loans were performing in accordance with their original terms at December 31, 2013. K - 3 Commercial Business Loans. We originate commercial business loans to professionals and small businesses in our market area. We offer installment loans for a variety of business needs including capital improvements and equipment acquisition. Other commercial loans are secured by business assets such as accounts receivable, inventory, and equipment, and are typically backed by the personal guarantee of the borrower. We originate working capital lines of credit to finance the short-term needs of businesses. These credit lines are repaid by seasonal cash flows from operations and are also typically backed by the personal guarantee of the borrower. When evaluating commercial business loans, we perform a detailed financial analysis of the borrower and/or guarantor which includes but is not limited to: cash flow and balance sheet analysis, debt service capabilities, review of industry (geographic and economic conditions) and collateral analysis. We also provide financing to a Pittsburgh area machinery and equipment leasing company. These loans are secured with an assignment of machinery and equipment leases. At December 31, 2013, we had 13 loans for equipment leases totaling $8.3 million. At December 31, 2013, our largest commercial business loan relationship was a $3.5 million warehouse line of credit, of which $555,000 was outstanding. This loan was performing in accordance with its original terms at December 31, 2013. Consumer Loans. Our consumer loans include home equity installment loans, home equity lines of credit, loans on savings accounts, and personal lines of credit and installment loans. The procedures for underwriting consumer loans include an assessment of the applicant’s payment history on other debts and ability to meet existing obligations and payments on the proposed loan. Although the applicant’s creditworthiness is a primary consideration, the underwriting process also includes a comparison of the value of the collateral, if any, to the proposed loan amount. Home equity installment loans and home equity lines of credit are generally originated with a loan-to-value ratio of 80% or less. On occasion we originate home equity loans with a loan-to-value ratio greater than 80%. Home equity installment loans have fixed interest rates with terms that range up to 20 years. Home equity lines of credit have adjustable rates of interest that are indexed to the prime rate. We discontinued offering home equity loans with a loan-to-value ratio greater than 100% in 2007 or with terms greater than 20 years in 2013, but there are loans currently in our portfolio with these characteristics. We also offer secured and unsecured consumer loans that have fixed interest rates and terms that can range from one to 10 years. Loan Underwriting Risks Adjustable Rate Loans. While adjustable rate loans may better offset the adverse effects of an increase in interest rates as compared to fixed rate loans, the increased payments required of adjustable rate loan borrowers in a rising interest rate environment could cause an increase in delinquencies and defaults. In addition, although adjustable rate loans help make our asset base more responsive to changes in interest rates, the extent of this interest sensitivity may be limited by the annual and lifetime interest rate adjustment limits. Residential Loans. Residential loan collections depend on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and therefore are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness or personal bankruptcy. In the event of a default, if the collateral value declines below the outstanding balance on the loan; the sale of the collateral may not be sufficient to recoup the remaining principal owed and related foreclosure costs. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including federal and state bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on such loans. In recent years we have been exposed to prepayment risk when borrowers refinance their loans at a lower rate due to the declining interest rate environment, which results in a lower rate of return. Commercial and Multi-Family Real Estate Loans. Loans secured by commercial and multi-family real estate generally have larger balances and involve a greater degree of risk than residential mortgage loans. Of primary concern in commercial and multi-family real estate lending is the borrower’s creditworthiness and cash flow potential of the project. Payments on loans secured by income properties often depend on successful operation and management of the properties. As a result, repayment of such loans may be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy. K - 4 Construction Loans. Construction financing is generally considered to involve a higher degree of risk of loss than long-term financing on improved, occupied real estate. Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely upon the accuracy of the initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost (including interest) of construction. During the construction phase, a number of factors could result in delays and cost overruns. If the estimate of construction costs proves to be inaccurate, we may be required to advance funds beyond the amount originally committed to permit completion of the building. If the estimate of value proves to be inaccurate, we may be confronted, at or before the maturity of the loan, with a building having a value which is insufficient to assure full repayment. If we are forced to foreclose on a building before or at completion due to a default, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover all of the unpaid balance of, and accrued interest on, the loan as well as related foreclosure and holding costs. Commercial Business Loans. Commercial business loans are higher risk and typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the business. As a result, the availability of funds for the repayment of commercial loans may depend substantially on the success of the business itself. A debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.25x and a leverage ratio of less than 3.0x are also applicable to commercial business loans. Further, any collateral securing such loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value. We also maintain allowable advance rates for each collateral type to ensure coverage. Consumer Loans. Consumer loans may entail greater risk than do residential mortgage loans, particularly in the case of consumer loans that are secured in a junior lien position, unsecured, or secured by assets that depreciate rapidly. In such cases, repossessed collateral for a defaulted consumer loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment for the outstanding loan and the remaining deficiency often does not warrant further substantial collection efforts against the borrower. In addition, consumer loan collections depend on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and therefore are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness or personal bankruptcy. In the event of a default, if the collateral value declines below the outstanding balance on the loan; the sale of the collateral may not be sufficient to recoup the remaining principal owed and related foreclosure costs. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including federal and state bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on such loans. Loan Originations, Purchases and Sales Loan originations come from a number of sources. The primary source of loan originations are telephone marketing efforts, existing customers, walk-in traffic, loan brokers, advertising and referrals from customers. We have a relationship with a mortgage broker through which we originate a substantial portion of our residential mortgage loans, and we have a relationship with a commercial leasing company through which we originate commercial equipment leases. We also purchase and sell loan participations with other local community banks. Loan Approval Procedures and Authority Our lending activities follow written, nondiscriminatory, underwriting standards and loan origination procedures established by our board of directors and management. The board of directors has granted certain loan approval authority to a committee of officers. The loan committee approves all residential mortgages, construction loans and consumer loans and all commercial loans with CDHE up to $500,000. All commercial and multi-family loans with commercial direct hard exposure (“CDHE”) of $500,000 or more and loans or extensions of credit to insiders require the approval of the board of directors. Loans to One Borrower The maximum amount that we may lend to one borrower and the borrower’s related entities is limited, by regulation, to generally 15% of our unimpaired capital and surplus. At December 31, 2013, our regulatory limit on loans to one borrower was $6.7 million. At that date, our largest lending relationship was a $4.9 million commercial real estate relationship. The loans were performing in accordance with their original terms at December 31, 2013. Loan Commitments We issue commitments for fixed and adjustable rate mortgage and commercial loans conditioned upon the occurrence of certain events. Commitments to originate mortgage loans are legally binding agreements to lend to our customers. Generally, our residential loan commitments expire after 45 days and our commercial loan commitments expire after 90 days. K - 5 Investment Activities We have legal authority to invest in various types of liquid assets, including U.S. Treasury obligations, Government-sponsored enterprise securities and securities of various federal agencies and of state and municipal governments, mortgage-backed securities and certificates of deposit of federally insured institutions. Within certain regulatory limits, we also may invest a portion of our assets in corporate securities and mutual funds. We also are required to maintain an investment in Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Pittsburgh stock. While we have the authority under applicable law and our investment policies to invest in derivative securities, we have never invested in such investments. At December 31, 2013, our investment portfolio consisted of municipal bonds, mortgage-backed securities issued primarily by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, guaranteed real estate mortgage investment conduits (“REMIC”), and corporate debt obligations (“CDO”) collateralized by trust preferred securities (“TruPS”). Municipal bonds are a type of security issued by a state, municipality or county to finance its capital expenditures. Municipal bonds are typically exempt from federal taxes and from most state taxes in which they are issued. Municipal bonds may be general obligations of the issuer or secured by specific revenues. General obligation bonds are unsecured and backed by the full faith and credit of the municipality and are paid off with funds from taxes and other fees. Revenue bonds are used to fund projects that will eventually create revenue directly, such as a toll road or lease payments for a new building. Municipal bonds have traditionally had very low rates of default as they are backed either by government power to tax or revenue. Mortgage-backed securities are asset-backed securities that represent a claim on the cash flows from mortgage loans through securitization. Mortgage-backed securities are typically pass-through in nature with repayment of principal and interest to the security holder occurring over the life of the security. REMICs represent a participation interest in a pool of mortgages. REMICs are created by redirecting the cash flows from the pool of mortgages underlying those securities to create two or more classes (or tranches) with different maturity or risk characteristics designed to meet a variety of investor needs and preferences. REMICs may be sponsored by U.S. Government agencies and Government-sponsored enterprises. A CDO is a type of structured asset-backed security that makes payments in a sequence based on the cash flow the CDO collects from the pool of bonds or other assets it owns. The CDO typically has tranches and the cash flow of interest and principal payments occurs based on seniority. If an asset defaults and the cash collected by the CDO is insufficient to pay all of its investors, those in the lowest, junior tranches suffer losses first. The last to lose payment from default are the safest, most senior tranches. Consequently payments and interest rates vary by tranche with the most senior tranches paying the lowest and the most junior tranches paying the highest rates to compensate for higher default risk. We are subject to credit risk related to two pools of CDOs collateralized by TruPS of insurance companies. TruPS are generally longer-term, fixed maturity securities that allow early redemption by the issuer with fixed or variable payments typically occurring on a quarterly basis. In December 2013, the OCC adopted final regulations, commonly known as the “Volcker Rule”, which contains certain prohibitions and restrictions on the ability of a banking entity to engage in proprietary trading and have certain interests in, or relationships with, a hedge fund or private equity fund. The regulations prohibit a banking entity from having an ownership interest in, or certain relationships with, a hedge fund or private equity fund (referred to as a “covered fund”) unless an exception applies. A covered fund is defined to include any issuer that would be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, but relies on the exemption for funds sold to fewer than 100 investors or the exemption for funds sold only to qualified purchasers. An issuer that could rely on a different exemption from the definition of investment company under the Investment Company Act would not be considered a covered fund, and therefore would not be subject to the Volcker Rule. In particular, the federal banking regulators have noted that some issuers of CDOs may qualify for exemption under Investment Company Act Rule 3a-7, which exempts non-managed fixed income funds from the definition of investment company. Therefore, if the issuer meets the requirements of Rule 3a-7, the Notes will not be subject to the Volcker Rule. However, if a different exemption does not apply, then the CDOs would be considered a covered fund subject to the Volcker Rule and the banking entity would be required to divest its holdings by July 15, 2015. Based on our review, the CDOs held by the Bank as of December 31, 2013 satisfy all conditions for relying on the exemption under Investment Company Act rule 3a-7, and therefore are not considered a covered fund that require divesture by July 15, 2015. The CDOs were in an unrealized loss position of $405,000 at December 31, 2013. K - 6 Our investment objectives are to provide and maintain liquidity, to provide collateral for pledging requirements, to establish an acceptable level of interest rate and credit risk, to provide an alternate source of investment when demand for loans is weak and to generate a favorable return. Our board of directors has the overall responsibility for the investment portfolio, including approval of the investment policy and appointment of the Investment Committee. The Investment Committee is responsible for implementation of the investment policy and monitoring our investment performance. Individual investment transactions are reviewed and ratified by the board of directors on a monthly basis. Insurance Activities We conduct insurance brokerage activities through our 80%-owned subsidiary, Exchange Underwriters. Exchange Underwriters is a full-service, independent insurance agency that offers property and casualty, commercial liability, surety and other insurance products for small businesses and individuals through over 25 insurance carriers. Exchange Underwriters is licensed in more than 35 states. In addition to serving businesses and individuals in the Pittsburgh metropolitan areas, Exchange Underwriters has developed specialty programs that are sold nationwide. Exchange Underwriters generates revenues primarily from commissions paid by insurance companies with respect to the placement of insurance products. Commission revenue includes contingent commissions, which are commissions paid by an insurance carrier that are based on the overall profit and/or volume of the business placed with that insurance carrier during a particular calendar year. Deposit Activities and Other Sources of Funds General. Deposits, securities, borrowings and loan repayments are the major sources of our funds for lending and other investment purposes. Loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, while deposit inflows and outflows and loan prepayments are significantly influenced by general interest rates and economic conditions. Deposits. Substantially all of our depositors are residents of Pennsylvania. Deposits are attracted from within our market area through the offering of a broad selection of deposit products such as noninterest-bearing demand deposits, interest-bearing demand accounts, savings accounts, money market accounts and certificates of deposit (including individual retirement accounts). We consider demand deposits, savings accounts and money market accounts to be core deposits. Deposit products are supported by services including online banking with bill pay, mobile banking, and telephone banking. Deposit account terms vary according to the minimum balance required, the time periods the funds must remain on deposit and the interest rate, among other factors. In determining the terms of our deposit accounts, we consider the rates offered by our competition, liquidity needs, profitability, matching deposit and loan products and customer preferences and concerns. We generally review our deposit mix and pricing semi-monthly. Our current strategy is to offer competitive rates on all types of deposit products. In addition to accounts for individuals, we also offer deposit accounts designed for the businesses operating in our market area. Our business banking deposit products include commercial checking accounts, money market accounts, sweep and insured money sweep services, remote electronic deposit, online banking with bill pay and automated clearinghouse. At December 31, 2013, we did not have any brokered deposits. Borrowings. We utilize advances from the FHLB and, to a limited extent, repurchase agreements to supplement our supply of investable funds. The Bank also has the ability to borrow from the Federal Reserve based upon eligible collateral and has two unsecured discretionary lines of credit with other financial institutions. The FHLB functions as a central reserve bank providing credit for member financial institutions. As a member, we are required to own capital stock in the FHLB and are authorized to apply for advances on the security of such stock and certain of our mortgage loans and other assets (principally securities which are obligations of, or guaranteed by, the United States or Government-sponsored enterprises), provided certain standards related to creditworthiness have been met. Advances are made under several different programs, each having its own interest rate and range of maturities. Depending on the program, limitations on the amount of advances are based either on a fixed percentage of an institution’s net worth or on the FHLB’s assessment of the institution’s creditworthiness. Personnel At December 31, 2013, we had 88 full-time equivalent employees, including 18 employees of our insurance agency subsidiary, none of whom is represented by a collective bargaining unit. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good. K - 7 Subsidiaries FedFirst Financial’s only direct subsidiary is First Federal Savings Bank. First Federal Savings Bank’s only direct subsidiary is FedFirst Exchange Corporation. FedFirst Exchange Corporation owns an 80% interest in Exchange Underwriters. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Our executive officers are elected annually by the board of directors and serve at the board’s discretion. The following individuals currently serve as executive officers of FedFirst Financial and its subsidiaries. Name Position Patrick G. O’Brien President and Chief Executive Officer of FedFirst Financial, First Federal and Exchange Underwriters and President of FFEC. Jamie L. Prah Senior Vice President—Chief Financial Officer of FedFirst Financial, First Federal, FFEC and Exchange Underwriters and Assistant Corporate Secretary of First Federal. Richard B. Boyer Vice President—Insurance Operations of First Federal and President and Chief Operating Officer of Exchange Underwriters. Henry B. Brown III Senior Vice President—Chief Lending Officer of First Federal Jennifer L. George Senior Vice President—Chief Risk Officer of First Federal and Corporate Secretary of FedFirst Financial, First Federal and FFEC and Assistant Corporate Secretary of Exchange Underwriters. Below is information regarding our executive officers who are not also directors. Each executive officer has held his or her current position for at least the last five years unless stated otherwise. Ages presented are as of December 31, 2013. Jamie L. Prah was appointed as Senior Vice President – Chief Financial Officer of FedFirst Financial and First Federal in September 2011 after previously serving as Vice President—Controller and Treasurer of First Federal since February 2005. In 2010, Mr. Prah was also appointed Assistant Corporate Secretary of First Federal. Age 43. Henry B. Brown III was appointed as Senior Vice President – Chief Lending Officer in September 2011 after previously serving as Vice President—Manager Production & Credit of First Federal since August 2007. Prior to joining First Federal, Mr. Brown served as Senior Vice President—Treasury Management at WesBanco Bank, Inc. from May 2005 to August 2007. Age 62. Jennifer L. George was appointed as Senior Vice President – Chief Risk Officer in September 2011 after previously serving as Vice President—Bank Operations since July 2007. Ms. George joined First Federal in January 2006 as Assistant Controller. In 2010, Ms. George was also appointed Corporate Secretary of FedFirst Financial and First Federal. Age 42. REGULATION AND SUPERVISION General First Federal Savings Bank, as a federal savings association, is currently subject to extensive regulation, examination and supervision by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”), as its primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) as the insurer of its deposits. First Federal is a member of the FHLB System and its deposit accounts are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the FDIC. First Federal must file reports with the OCC concerning its activities and financial condition in addition to obtaining regulatory approvals before entering into certain transactions such as mergers with, or acquisitions of, other financial institutions. There are periodic examinations by the OCC to evaluate First Federal’s safety and soundness and compliance with various regulatory requirements. The regulatory structure gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to the classification of assets and the establishment of an adequate allowance for loan losses for regulatory purposes. Any change in such policies, whether by the OCC, the FDIC or Congress, could have a material adverse effect on FedFirst Financial and First Federal and their operations. K - 8 The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) is an independent bureau of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“FRB”) that has responsibility for the implementation of the federal financial consumer protection and fair lending laws and regulations and has authority to impose new requirements. Institutions of less than $10 billion in assets, such as First Federal, are subject to the regulations of the CFPB, but will continue to be examined for compliance with consumer protection and fair lending laws and regulations by, and be subject to the enforcement authority of, their prudential regulators. Certain of the regulatory requirements that are applicable to First Federal and FedFirst Financial are described below. This description of statutes and regulations is not intended to be a complete explanation of such statutes and regulations and their effects on First Federal and FedFirst Financial. Capital Requirements The applicable capital regulations require savings associations to meet three minimum capital standards: a 1.5% tangible capital to total assets ratio, a 4% Tier 1 capital to total assets leverage ratio (3% for institutions receiving the highest rating on the CAMELS examination rating system) and an 8% risk-based capital ratio. In addition, the prompt corrective action standards discussed below also establish, in effect, a minimum 2% tangible capital standard, a 4% leverage ratio (3% for institutions receiving the highest rating on the CAMELS system) and, together with the risk-based capital standard itself, a 4% Tier 1 risk-based capital standard. The regulations also require that, in meeting the tangible, leverage and risk-based capital standards, institutions must generally deduct investments in and loans to subsidiaries engaged in activities as principal that are not permissible for a national bank. The risk-based capital standard for savings associations requires the maintenance of Tier 1 (core) and total capital (which is defined as core capital and supplementary capital less certain specified deductions from total capital such as reciprocal holdings of depository institution capital instruments and equity investments) to risk-weighted assets of at least 4% and 8%, respectively. In determining the amount of risk-weighted assets, all assets, including certain off-balance sheet activities, recourse obligations, residual interests and direct credit substitutes, are multiplied by a risk-weight factor of 0% to 100%, assigned by the capital regulation based on the risks believed inherent in the type of asset. Tier 1 (core) capital is generally defined as common stockholders’ equity (including retained earnings), certain noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus and minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less intangibles other than certain mortgage servicing rights and credit card relationships. The components of supplementary capital (Tier 2 capital) include cumulative preferred stock, long-term perpetual preferred stock, mandatory convertible debt securities, subordinated debt and intermediate preferred stock, the allowance for loan and lease losses limited to a maximum of 1.25% of risk-weighted assets and up to 45% of unrealized gains on available-for-sale equity securities with readily determinable fair market values. Overall, the amount of supplementary capital included as part of total capital cannot exceed 100% of core capital. The OCC also has authority to establish individual minimum capital requirements in appropriate cases upon a determination that an institution’s capital level is or may become inadequate in light of the particular risks or circumstances. At December 31, 2013, First Federal met each of its capital requirements. Basel Committee on Banking Supervision On July 9, 2013, the federal bank regulatory agencies issued a final rule that will revise their risk-based capital requirements and the method for calculating risk-weighted assets to make them consistent with agreements that were reached by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (“Basel III”) and certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). The final rule applies to all depository institutions, top-tier bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $500 million or more and top-tier savings and loan holding companies. The rule establishes a new common equity Tier 1 minimum capital requirement (4.5% of risk-weighted assets), increases the minimum Tier 1 capital to risk-based assets requirement (from 4.0% to 6.0% of risk-weighted assets) and assigns a higher risk weight (150%) to exposures that are more than 90 days past due or are on nonaccrual status and to certain commercial real estate facilities that finance the acquisition, development or construction of real property. The rule also includes changes in what constitutes regulatory capital, some of which are subject to a two-year transition period. These changes include the phasing-out of certain instruments as qualifying capital. In addition, Tier 2 capital is no longer limited to the amount of Tier 1 capital included in total capital. Mortgage servicing rights, certain deferred tax assets and investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries over designated percentages of common stock will be required to be deducted from capital, subject to a two-year transition period. Finally, Tier 1 capital will include accumulated other comprehensive income (which includes all unrealized gains and losses on available for sale debt and equity securities), subject to a two-year transition period. K - 9 The new capital requirements also include changes in the risk-weights of assets to better reflect credit risk and other risk exposures. These include a 150% risk weight (up from 100%) for certain high volatility commercial real estate acquisition, development and construction loans and non-residential mortgage loans that are 90 days past due or otherwise on nonaccrual status; a 20% (up from 0%) credit conversion factor for the unused portion of a commitment with an original maturity of one year or less that is not unconditionally cancellable; a 250% risk weight (up from 100%) for mortgage servicing rights and deferred tax assets that are not deducted from capital; and increased risk-weights (from 0% to up to 600%) for equity exposures. Finally, the rule limits capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments if the banking organization does not hold a “capital conservation buffer” consisting of 2.5% of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets in addition to the amount necessary to meet its minimum risk-based capital requirements. The final rule becomes effective on January 1, 2015. The capital conservation buffer requirement will be phased in beginning January 1, 2016, at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets, increasing each year until fully implemented at 2.5% on January 1, 2019. It is management’s belief that, as of December 31, 2013, the Company and the Bank would have exceeded all capital adequacy requirements under Basel III to be considered well capitalized on a fully phased-in basis if such requirements were currently effective. Federal Banking Regulation Business Activities. The activities of federal savings banks, such as First Federal, are governed by federal laws and regulations. Those laws and regulations delineate the nature and extent of the business activities in which federal savings banks may engage. In particular, certain lending authority for federal savings banks, e.g., commercial, non-residential real property loans and consumer loans, is limited to a specified percentage of the institution’s capital or assets. Prompt Corrective Regulatory Action. Prompt corrective action regulations provide five classifications: well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized, although these terms are not used to represent overall financial condition. If adequately capitalized, regulatory approval is required to accept broker deposits. The OCC is required to take certain supervisory actions against undercapitalized institutions, the severity of which depends upon the institution’s degree of undercapitalization. In addition, numerous mandatory supervisory actions become immediately applicable to an undercapitalized institution, including, but not limited to, increased monitoring by regulators and restrictions on growth, capital distributions and expansion. The OCC could also take any one of a number of discretionary supervisory actions, including the issuance of a capital directive and the replacement of senior executive officers and directors. Significantly and critically undercapitalized institutions are subject to additional mandatory and discretionary measures. Insurance of Deposit Accounts. First Federal’s deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the FDIC. Under the FDIC’s existing risk-based assessment system, insured institutions are assigned to one of four risk categories based on supervisory evaluations, regulatory capital levels and certain other factors, with less risky institutions paying lower assessments. An institution’s assessment rate depends upon the category to which it is assigned. Assessment rates range from seven to 77.5 basis points on the institution’s assessment base, which is calculated as total assets minus tangible equity. Deposit insurance per account owner is currently $250,000. The FDIC adopted an optional Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program by which, for a fee, non-interest bearing transaction accounts would receive unlimited insurance coverage until December 31, 2010, which was later extended to December 31, 2012. First Federal opted to participate in the unlimited coverage for noninterest bearing transaction accounts. The FDIC has authority to increase insurance assessments. A significant increase in insurance premiums would likely have an adverse effect on the operating expenses and results of operations of First Federal. Management cannot predict what insurance assessment rates will be in the future. Loans to One Borrower. Federal law provides that savings associations are generally subject to the limits on loans to one borrower applicable to national banks. Generally, subject to certain exceptions, a savings association may not make a loan or extend credit to a single or related group of borrowers in excess of 15% of its unimpaired capital and surplus. An additional amount may be lent, equal to 10% of unimpaired capital and surplus, if secured by specified readily-marketable collateral. K - 10 Qualified Thrift Lender Test. Federal law requires savings associations to meet a qualified thrift lender test. Under the test, a savings association is required to either qualify as a “domestic building and loan association” under the Internal Revenue Code or maintain at least 65% of its “portfolio assets” (total assets less: (i) specified liquid assets up to 20% of total assets; (ii) intangibles, including goodwill; and (iii) the value of property used to conduct business) in certain “qualified thrift investments” (primarily residential mortgages and related investments, including certain mortgage-backed securities but also including education, credit card and small business loans) in at least nine months out of each 12-month period. A savings association that fails the qualified thrift lender test is subject to certain operating restrictions, including dividend limitations. The Dodd-Frank Act made noncompliance with the qualified thrift lender test a violation of law that could result in an enforcement action. As of December 31, 2013, First Federal maintained 73.8% of its portfolio assets in qualified thrift investments and maintained at least 65% of its portfolio assets in qualified thrift investments in each of the previous 12 months, therefore, meeting the qualified thrift lender test. Limitation on Capital Distributions. Federal regulations impose limitations upon all capital distributions by a savings association, including cash dividends, payments to repurchase its shares and payments to shareholders of another institution in a cash-out merger. Under the regulations, an application to and the prior approval of the OCC is required before any capital distribution if the institution does not meet the criteria for “expedited treatment” of applications under OCC regulations (i.e., generally, examination and Community Reinvestment Act ratings in the two top categories), the total capital distributions for the calendar year exceed net income for that year plus the amount of retained net income for the preceding two years, the institution would be undercapitalized following the distribution or the distribution would otherwise be contrary to a statute, regulation or agreement with the OCC. If an application is not required, the institution must still provide 30 days prior written notice to the FRB of the capital distribution if, like First Federal, it is a subsidiary of a holding company, as well as an informational notice filing to the OCC. If First Federal’s capital ever fell below its regulatory requirements or the OCC notified it that it was in need of increased supervision, its ability to make capital distributions could be restricted. In addition, the OCC could prohibit a proposed capital distribution by any institution, which would otherwise be permitted by the regulation, if the OCC determines that such distribution would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Community Reinvestment Act. All federal savings associations have a responsibility under the Community Reinvestment Act and related regulations to help meet the credit needs of their communities, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. An institution’s failure to satisfactorily comply with the provisions of the Community Reinvestment Act could result in denials of regulatory applications. Responsibility for administering the Community Reinvestment Act, unlike other fair lending laws, is not being transferred to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. First Federal received a “satisfactory” Community Reinvestment Act rating in its most recently completed examination. Transactions with Related Parties. Federal law limits First Federal’s authority to engage in transactions with “affiliates” (e.g., any entity that controls or is under common control with First Federal, including FedFirst Financial and their other subsidiaries). The aggregate amount of covered transactions with any individual affiliate is limited to 10% of the capital and surplus of the savings association. The aggregate amount of covered transactions with all affiliates is limited to 20% of the savings association’s capital and surplus. Certain transactions with affiliates are required to be secured by collateral in an amount and of a type specified by federal law. The purchase of low quality assets from affiliates is generally prohibited. Transactions with affiliates must generally be on terms and under circumstances that are at least as favorable to the institution as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with non-affiliated companies. In addition, savings associations are prohibited from lending to any affiliate that is engaged in activities that are not permissible for bank holding companies and no savings association may purchase the securities of any affiliate other than a subsidiary. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 generally prohibits loans by FedFirst Financial to its executive officers and directors. However, the law contains a specific exception for loans by a depository institution to its executive officers and directors in compliance with federal banking laws. Under such laws, First Federal’s authority to extend credit to executive officers, directors and 10% shareholders (“insiders”), as well as entities such persons control, is limited. The laws limit both the individual and aggregate amount of loans that First Federal may make to insiders based, in part, on First Federal’s capital level and requires that certain board approval procedures be followed. Such loans are required to be made on terms substantially the same as those offered to unaffiliated individuals and not involve more than the normal risk of repayment. There is an exception for loans made pursuant to a benefit or compensation program that is widely available to all employees of the institution and does not give preference to insiders over other employees. Loans to executive officers are subject to additional limitations based on the type of loan involved. K - 11 Enforcement. The OCC currently has primary enforcement responsibility over savings associations and has authority to bring actions against the institution and all institution-affiliated parties, including shareholders, and any attorneys, appraisers and accountants who knowingly or recklessly participate in wrongful actions likely to have an adverse effect on an insured institution. Formal enforcement action may range from the issuance of a capital directive or cease and desist order to removal of officers and/or directors to institution of receivership, conservatorship or termination of deposit insurance. Civil penalties cover a wide range of violations and can amount to $25,000 per day, or even $1.0 million per day in especially egregious cases. The FDIC has the authority to recommend to the OCC that enforcement action be taken with respect to a particular savings association. If action is not taken by the OCC, the FDIC has authority to take such action under certain circumstances. Federal law also establishes criminal penalties for certain violations. FHLB System. First Federal is a member of the FHLB System, which consists of 12 regional FHLBs. The FHLB provides a central credit facility primarily for member institutions. First Federal, as a member of the FHLB of Pittsburgh, is required to acquire and hold shares of capital stock in that FHLB. First Federal was in compliance with this requirement with an investment in FHLB of Pittsburgh stock at December 31, 2013 of $2.6 million. Federal Reserve System. The FRB regulations require savings associations to maintain non-interest earning reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily Negotiable Order of Withdrawal and regular checking accounts). The regulations generally provide that reserves be maintained against aggregate transaction accounts as follows for 2013: a 3% reserve ratio is assessed on net transaction accounts up to and including $79.5 million; a 10% reserve ratio is applied above $79.5 million. The first $12.4 million of otherwise reservable balances (subject to adjustments by the FRB) are exempted from the reserve requirements. The amounts are adjusted annually and, for 2014, will require a 3% ratio for up to $89.0 million and an exemption of $13.3 million. First Federal complies with the foregoing requirements. Other Regulations First Federal’s operations are subject to federal laws applicable to credit transactions, including the: · Truth-In-Lending Act, governing disclosures of credit terms to consumer borrowers; · Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975, requiring financial institutions to provide information to enable the public and public officials to determine whether a financial institution is fulfilling its obligation to help meet the housing needs of the community it serves; · Equal Credit Opportunity Act, prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, creed or other prohibited factors in extending credit; · Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1978, governing the use and provision of information to credit reporting agencies; and · Fair Debt Collection Act, governing the manner in which consumer debts may be collected by collection agencies; and rules and regulations of the various federal agencies charged with the responsibility of implementing such federal laws. The operations of First Federal are subject to laws such as the: · Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act (commonly referred to as the “Bank Secrecy Act” or “BSA”), which requires U.S. financial institutions to assist U.S. government agencies to detect and prevent money laundering. Specifically, BSA requires financial institutions to keep records of cash purchases of negotiable instruments, file reports of cash transactions exceeding $10,000 (daily aggregate amount), and to report suspicious activity that might signify money laundering, tax evasion, or other criminal activities. · Right to Financial Privacy Act, which imposes a duty to maintain confidentiality of consumer financial records and prescribes procedures for complying with administrative subpoenas of financial records; · Electronic Funds Transfer Act and Regulation E promulgated thereunder, which govern automatic deposits to and withdrawals from deposit accounts and customers’ rights and liabilities arising from the use of automated teller machines and other electronic banking services; and · Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act (also known as “Check 21”), which gives “substitute checks,” such as digital check images and copies made from that image, the same legal standing as the original paper check. K - 12 Holding Company Regulation General. As a savings and loan holding company, FedFirst Financial is subject to FRB regulations, examinations, supervision, reporting requirements and regulations regarding its activities. In addition, the FRB has enforcement authority over FedFirst Financial and its non-savings institution subsidiaries. Among other things, this authority permits the FRB to restrict or prohibit activities that are determined to be a serious risk to First Federal. FedFirst Financial is a unitary savings and loan holding company within the meaning of federal law. As a unitary savings and loan holding company that was in existence prior to May 4, 1999, FedFirst Financial is generally not restricted as to the types of business activities in which it may engage, provided that First Federal continues to be a qualified thrift lender. Federal law prohibits a savings and loan holding company from, directly or indirectly or through one or more subsidiaries, acquiring more than 5% of the voting stock of another savings association, or savings and loan holding company thereof, without prior written approval of the FRB or from acquiring or retaining, with certain exceptions, more than 5% of a non-subsidiary holding company or savings association. A savings and loan holding company is also prohibited from acquiring more than 5% of a company engaged in activities other than those authorized by federal law or acquiring or retaining control of a depository institution that is not insured by the FDIC. In evaluating applications by holding companies to acquire savings associations, the FRB must consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the company and institution involved, the effect of the acquisition on the risk to the insurance funds, the convenience and needs of the community and competitive factors. The FRB is prohibited from approving any acquisition that would result in a multiple savings and loan holding company controlling savings associations in more than one state, except: (i) the approval of interstate supervisory acquisitions by savings and loan holding companies; and (ii) the acquisition of a savings association in another state if the laws of the state of the target savings association specifically permit such acquisitions. The states vary in the extent to which they permit interstate savings and loan holding company acquisitions. Source of Strength. The Dodd-Frank Act also extends the “source of strength” doctrine to savings and loan holding companies. The regulatory agencies must promulgate regulations implementing the “source of strength” policy that holding companies act as a source of strength to their subsidiary depository institutions by providing capital, liquidity and other support in times of financial stress. Dividends. The FRB has the power to prohibit dividends by savings and loan holding companies if their actions constitute unsafe or unsound practices. The FRB has issued a policy statement on the payment of cash dividends by bank holding companies, which also applies to savings and loan holding companies and which expresses the FRB’s view that a holding company should pay cash dividends only to the extent that the company’s net income for the past year is sufficient to cover both the cash dividends and a rate of earnings retention that is consistent with the company’s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. The FRB also indicated that it would be inappropriate for a holding company experiencing serious financial problems to borrow funds to pay dividends. Under the prompt corrective action regulations, the FRB may prohibit a bank holding company from paying any dividends if the holding company’s bank subsidiary is classified as “undercapitalized.” Acquisition of FedFirst Financial. Under the Federal Change in Bank Control Act, a notice must be submitted to the FRB if any person (including a company), or group acting in concert, seeks to acquire direct or indirect “control” of a savings and loan holding company or savings association. Under certain circumstances, a change of control may occur, and prior notice is required, upon the acquisition of 10% or more of the outstanding voting stock of the company or institution, unless the FRB has found that the acquisition will not result in a change of control of FedFirst Financial. Under the Change in Control Act, the FRB generally has 60 days from the filing of a complete notice to act, taking into consideration certain factors, including the financial and managerial resources of the acquirer and the anti-trust effects of the acquisition. Any company that acquires control would then be subject to regulation as a savings and loan holding company. K - 13 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The current economic conditions pose significant challenges that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends to a large degree on the general economic conditions in Southwestern Pennsylvania. Our market has experienced a significant downturn in which we have seen falling home prices, rising foreclosures and an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies. Although economic conditions have slightly improved, if economic conditions in our market area do not continue to improve or we experience another downturn, we could experience reduced demand for our products and services, increased problem assets and foreclosures and increased loan losses, each of which could further adversely affect our business. We could experience further adverse consequences in the event of another economic downturn in our market due to our exposure to commercial loans across various lines of business. Another economic downturn could adversely affect collateral values or cash flows of the borrowing businesses, and as a result our primary source of repayment could be insufficient to service the debt. Another adverse consequence in the event of another economic downturn in our market could be the loss of collateral value on commercial and real estate loans that are secured by real estate located in our market area. If real estate values in our market remain below their pre-recession levels or decline again the collateral for many of our loans would provide less security. As a result, we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans because our ability to fully recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral would be diminished. Future economic conditions in our market will depend on factors outside of our control such as political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government, military and fiscal policies and inflation. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and earnings. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investments less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our net interest spread is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates – up or down – could adversely affect our net interest spread and, as a result, our net interest income and net interest margin. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract. This contraction could be more severe following a prolonged period of lower interest rates, as a larger proportion of our fixed rate residential loan portfolio will have been originated at those lower rates and borrowers may be more reluctant or unable to sell their homes in a higher interest rate environment. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve” – or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates – could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. Commercial lending and the unseasoned nature of our commercial loan portfolio may expose us to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2013, $108.7 million, or 38.5%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and multi-family real estate loans, commercial construction loans and commercial business loans. Commercial lending is an important part of our business strategy, and we expect this portion of our loan portfolio to continue to grow. Commercial loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the borrower’s business. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential mortgage loans. Many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a residential mortgage loan. In addition, many of our commercial real estate and commercial business loans are unseasoned, meaning that they were originated recently. Our limited experience with these loans does not provide us with a significant payment history pattern with which to judge future collectability. As a result, it may be difficult to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our expectations, which could negatively affect our future performance. K - 14 Our emphasis on residential mortgage loans exposes us to a risk of loss due to a decline in property values. At December 31, 2013, $111.8 million, or 39.5%, of our loan portfolio consisted of residential mortgage loans, and $56.8 million, or 20.2%, of our loan portfolio consisted of home equity loans. Home equity loans are generally originated with a loan-to-value ratio of 80% or less and, on occasion, are originated with a loan-to-value ratio greater than 80%. Until 2007, such loans were offered with combined loan-to-value ratios of up to 125%. Declines in the housing market as a result of the recession resulted in declines in real estate values in our market areas. Real estate values in our market remain below their pre-recession levels and these depressed real estate values could cause some of our mortgage and home equity loans to be inadequately collateralized—particularly those home equity loans that were originated with combined loan-to-value ratios in excess of 100% – which would expose us to a greater risk of loss in the event that we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral. Higher loan losses could require us to increase our allowance for loan losses through a charge to earnings. When we loan money we incur the risk that our borrowers will not repay their loans. We reserve for loan losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might underestimate the loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have loan losses in excess of the amount reserved. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers with adjustable-rate loans could see their payments increase. There may be a significant increase in the number of borrowers who are unable or unwilling to repay their loans, resulting in our charging off more loans and increasing our allowance. In addition, when real estate values decline, the potential severity of loss on a real estate-secured loan can increase significantly, especially in the case of loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios. In addition, our determination as to the amount of our allowance for loan losses is subject to review by our primary regulator, the OCC, as part of its examination process, which may result in the establishment of an additional allowance based upon the judgment of the OCC after a review of the information available at the time of its examination. Our allowance for loan losses amounted to 1.17% of total loans outstanding and 136% of nonperforming loans at December 31, 2013. Our allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2013, may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. A large loss could deplete the allowance and require increased provisions to replenish the allowance, which would negatively affect earnings. Our purchase of out-of-state loans may expose us to increased lending risks. Prior to 2006, we purchased newly originated residential and multi-family real estate loans secured by properties throughout the United States in order to supplement our own loan originations. At December 31, 2013, we had $6.9 million of purchased residential mortgage loans, of which $307,000 were non-performing, and $3.8 million of purchased multi-family real estate loans, of which all were performing. $4.7 million of the residential loans are located in Michigan and Ohio, which have experienced high levels of unemployment and were significantly impacted by the economic downturn. It is difficult to assess the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio because the properties securing these loans are located outside of our market area, which makes them more difficult to monitor. We can give no assurance that these loans will not have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience, which would adversely affect our future performance. If we conclude that the decline in value of any of our investment securities is other-than-temporary, we are required to write down the value of that security through a charge to earnings. As of December 31, 2013, our investment portfolio included nine securities with unrealized losses of $655,000 that we considered for other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”). We evaluate our securities portfolio for OTTI throughout the year. Each investment that has a fair value less than book value is reviewed on a quarterly basis. An impairment charge is recorded against individual securities if management concludes that the decline in value is other-than-temporary. Any charges for OTTI would not impact cash flow, tangible capital or liquidity. Included in securities with unrealized losses are three CDOs with an amortized cost of $4.0 million and a fair value of $3.6 million at December 31, 2013. The CDOs were issued by two issuer pools consisting of insurance companies. A number of factors or combinations of factors could cause us to conclude in future reporting periods that these securities have experienced OTTI. These factors include, but are not limited to, failure to make scheduled interest payments, an increase in the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the continuous duration of the unrealized loss without an improvement in value or changes in market conditions, and industry or issuer-specific factors that would render us unable to forecast a full recovery of the amortized cost basis. K - 15 Our inability to retain deposits as they become due may cause us to rely more heavily on wholesale funding strategies, which could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating margins and profitability. A large percentage of our certificates of deposit have maturities of less than one year. The Bank has marketing and pricing initiatives to retain these certificates of deposit when they mature, however, there can be no guarantee that we will retain the deposits necessary to continue to fund asset growth at reasonable prices. If we are not able to maintain sufficient deposits, we will have to rely more heavily on wholesale strategies to fund our asset growth, which historically are more expensive than retail sources of funding. If we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. We do not control the premiums on which our insurance commissions are based, and volatility or declines in premiums may negatively impact the revenues of our insurance agency. Exchange Underwriters derives most of its revenues from commissions for brokerage services. We do not determine insurance premiums on which our commissions are generally based. Fluctuations in premiums charged by the insurance carriers have a direct and potentially material impact on Exchange Underwriters’ results of operations. Commission levels generally follow the same trend as premium levels, as commissions are derived from a percentage of the premiums paid by the insured. Due to their cyclical nature, insurance premiums may vary widely between periods. Such variations can have a potentially material impact on our commission revenues. Contingent commissions paid by insurance companies are less predictable than standard commissions, and any decrease in the amount of contingent commissions received by Exchange Underwriters could adversely affect its results of operations. Exchange Underwriters derives a portion of its revenues from contingent commissions paid by insurance companies. Contingent commissions are special revenue-sharing commissions paid by insurance companies based upon the profitability, volume and/or growth of the business placed with such companies during the prior year. If, due to the current economic environment or for any other reason, Exchange Underwriters is unable to meet insurance companies’ profitability, volume and/or growth thresholds, and/or insurance companies increase their estimate of loss reserves, over which Exchange Underwriters has no control, actual contingent commissions received by Exchange Underwriters could be less than anticipated, which could negatively affect Exchange Underwriters’ revenues. Strong competition within our market area could reduce our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. As of June 30, 2013, which is the most recent date for which information is available, we held 0.24% of the deposits in the Pittsburgh metropolitan area and 1.68% of the deposits in the counties in which our offices are located. Several of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. Our market area limits our growth potential. Our offices are located primarily in small industrial communities in the southern suburban area of metropolitan Pittsburgh. Most of these communities have experienced population and economic decline as a result of the decline of the United States steel industry. Because we have an aging customer base and there is little new real estate development in several of the communities where our offices are located, the opportunities for originating loans and growing deposits in our primary market area are limited. If we are unable to grow our business it will be difficult for us to increase our earnings. We are dependent upon the services of key executives. We rely heavily on our President and Chief Executive Officer, Patrick G. O’Brien. We also rely heavily on the President of Exchange Underwriters, Richard B. Boyer, to manage our insurance operations. The loss of Mr. O’Brien or Mr. Boyer could have a material adverse impact on our operations because, as a small company, we have fewer management-level personnel that have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have employment agreements with Messrs. O’Brien and Boyer. We maintain life insurance covering Mr. Boyer under a bank-owned life insurance program. K - 16 Our branching strategy may not be successful. A key component of our strategy to grow and improve profitability is to expand into communities that are experiencing population growth and economic expansion while also successfully servicing the small industrial communities in what has historically been our primary footprint. In 2006, we opened a new branch in Peters Township in Washington County, Pennsylvania. In 2007, we opened a new branch located in the downtown area of Washington, Pennsylvania. In 2011 and 2012, we consolidated two branches due to the close proximity of other branch locations. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in increasing the volume of our loans and deposits by expanding our branch network into communities experiencing growth. Building and/or staffing new branch offices will increase our operating expenses. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to manage the costs and implementation risks associated with this strategy so that expansion of our branch network will be profitable. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the FRB, which regulates savings and loan holding companies, the OCC, which regulates all national banks and federal savings associations, and by the FDIC, as our insurer of our deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Regulation of the financial services industry is undergoing major changes, and future legislation could increase our cost of doing business or harm our competitive position. The Dodd-Frank Act enacted in 2010 has created a significant shift in the way financial institutions operate. The Dodd-Frank Act restructured the regulation of depository institutions by merging the Office of Thrift Supervision, which previously regulated the Bank, into the OCC, and assigning the regulation of savings and loan holding companies, including the Company, to the FRB. The Dodd-Frank Act also created a new CFPB with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10.0 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10.0 billion or less in assets will be examined by their applicable bank regulators. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal banking regulators have adopted new consolidated capital requirements, which will limit our ability to borrow at the holding company level and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in the Bank that could be leveraged to support additional growth. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008-2009. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. In addition to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal regulatory agencies have taken stronger supervisory actions against financial institutions that have experienced increased loan losses and other weaknesses. The actions include the entering into of written agreements and cease and desist orders that place certain limitations on their operations. Federal bank regulators recently have also been using with more frequency their ability to impose individual minimal capital requirements on banks, which requirements may be higher than those imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act or which would otherwise qualify the bank as being “well capitalized” under the FDIC’s prompt corrective action regulations. If we were to become subject to a supervisory agreement or higher individual capital requirements, such action may have a negative impact on our ability to execute our business plans, as well as our ability to grow, pay dividends or engage in mergers and acquisitions and may result in restrictions in our operations. Any future legislative changes could have a material impact on our profitability, the value of assets held for investment or collateral for loans. Future legislative changes could require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses and potentially expose us to additional costs, liabilities, enforcement action and reputational risk. K - 17 New capital rules that were recently issued generally require insured depository institutions and their holding companies to hold more capital. The impact of the new rules on our financial condition and operations is uncertain but could be materially adverse. In July 2013, the FRB and the OCC adopted a final rule for the Basel III capital framework. These rules substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to us. The rules phase in over time beginning in 2015 and will become fully effective in 2019. The rules apply to the Company as well as to the Bank. Beginning in 2015, our minimum capital requirements will be (i) a common Tier 1 equity ratio of 4.5%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital (common Tier 1 capital plus Additional Tier 1 capital) of 6% (up from 4%) and (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (the current requirement). Our leverage ratio requirement will remain at the 4% level now required. Beginning in 2016, a capital conservation buffer will phase in over three years, ultimately resulting in a requirement of 2.5% on top of the common Tier 1, Tier 1 and total capital requirements, resulting in a required common Tier 1 equity ratio of 7%, a Tier 1 ratio of 8.5%, and a total capital ratio of 10.5%. Failure to satisfy any of these three capital requirements will result in limits on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases and paying discretionary bonuses. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. It is management’s belief that, as of December 31, 2013, the Company and the Bank would have exceeded all capital adequacy requirements under Basel III to be considered well capitalized on a fully phased-in basis if such requirements were currently effective. We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers, and systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business is dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If significant, sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, we provide our customers with the ability to bank remotely, including over the Internet and over the telephone. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet and other remote channels is a critical element of remote banking. Our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security breaches. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, regulatory scrutiny, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and could materially and adversely affect us. Additionally, financial products and services have become increasingly technology-driven. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on the ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technology than we do and may be better equipped to market new technology-driven products and services. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse impact on our business and therefore on our financial condition and results of operations. K - 18 We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. The federal Bank Secrecy Act, the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the "PATRIOT Act") and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain effective anti-money laundering programs and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, established by the U.S. Treasury Department to administer the Bank Secrecy Act, is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration and Internal Revenue Service. Federal and state bank regulators also have begun to focus on compliance with Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering regulations. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient or the policies, procedures and systems of the financial institutions that we may acquire in the future are deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions such as restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including our acquisition plans, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 