Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur business involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following risks, or any risk described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial also may adversely affect us.Risks related to the oil and natural gas industry and our businessA substantial or extended decline in oil and, to a lesser extent, natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments.The price we receive for our oil and, to a lesser extent, natural gas, heavily influences our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil and natural gas are commodities and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile. These markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the following:•worldwide and regional economic conditions impacting the global supply and demand for oil and natural gas;•the actions of OPEC;•the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas;•political conditions in or affecting other oil-producing and natural gas-producing countries, including the current conflicts in the Middle East and conditions in South America, China, India and Russia;•the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production;•the level of global oil and natural gas inventories;•localized supply and demand fundamentals and regional, domestic and international transportation availability;•weather conditions and natural disasters;•domestic and foreign governmental regulations;•speculation as to the future price of oil and the speculative trading of oil and natural gas futures contracts;•price and availability of competitors’ supplies of oil and natural gas;•technological advances affecting energy consumption; and•the price and availability of alternative fuels.Substantially all of our production is sold to purchasers under short-term (less than twelve-month) contracts at market-based prices. Lower oil and natural gas prices will reduce our cash flows, borrowing ability and the present value of our reserves. See “Our exploration, development and exploitation projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to expiration of our leases or a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves.” Lower oil and natural gas prices may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and may affect our proved reserves. See also “The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves will not necessarily be the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves” below.Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our exploitation, exploration, development and production activities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit drilling locations or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. For a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes, see “Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves” below. Our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled drilling projects, including the following:27Table of Contents•shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel;•facility or equipment malfunctions and/or failure;•unexpected operational events, including accidents;•pressure or irregularities in geological formations;•adverse weather conditions, such as blizzards, ice storms and floods;•reductions in oil and natural gas prices;•delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements;•proximity to and capacity of transportation facilities;•title problems; and•limitations in the market for oil and natural gas.Our estimated net proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See “Item 1. Business—Our operations” for information about our estimated oil and natural gas reserves and the PV-10 and Standardized Measure of discounted future net revenues as of December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011.In order to prepare our estimates, we must project production rates and the timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Although the reserve information contained herein is reviewed by our independent reserve engineers, estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise.Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, we may adjust estimates of net proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Due to the limited production history of our undeveloped acreage, the estimates of future production associated with such properties may be subject to greater variance to actual production than would be the case with properties having a longer production history.The present value of future net revenues from our estimated net proved reserves will not necessarily be the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves.You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our estimated net proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated net oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we based the estimated discounted future net revenues from our estimated net proved reserves on the twelve-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the preceding twelve months without giving effect to derivative transactions. Actual future net revenues from our oil and natural gas properties will be affected by factors such as:•actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas;•actual cost of development and production expenditures;•the amount and timing of actual production; and•changes in governmental regulations or taxation.The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing and amount of actual future net revenues from estimated net proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net revenues may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general.28Table of ContentsActual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimates included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any significant future price changes will have a material effect on the quantity and present value of our estimated net proved reserves.The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services or the unavailability of sufficient transportation for our production could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans within our budget and on a timely basis.Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel or oilfield services or the unavailability of sufficient transportation for our production could delay or adversely affect our development and exploration operations or cause us to incur significant expenditures that are not provided for in our capital budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, compliance with new or emerging legal requirements that affect midstream operations in North Dakota may reduce the availability of transportation for our production. One example of emerging legal requirements is the midstream rules adopted by the North Dakota Industrial Commission in late December 2013 and expected to take effect in 2014 that impose more rigorous pipeline development standards relating to, among other things, pipe material selection and pipeline installation and backfilling techniques. Part of our strategy involves drilling in existing or emerging shale plays using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques. The results of our planned exploratory drilling in these plays are subject to drilling and completion technique risks and drilling results may not meet our expectations for reserves or production. As a result, we may incur material write-downs and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline if drilling results are unsuccessful.Operations in the Bakken and the Three Forks formations involve utilizing the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by us and our service providers in order to maximize cumulative recoveries and therefore generate the highest possible returns. Risks that we face while drilling include, but are not limited to, landing our well bore in the desired drilling zone, staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation, running our casing the entire length of the well bore and being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal well bore. Risks that we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to, being able to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages, being able to run tools the entire length of the well bore during completion operations and successfully cleaning out the well bore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage.Our experience with horizontal drilling utilizing the latest drilling and completion techniques specifically in the Bakken and Three Forks formations began in late 2009. Ultimately, the success of these drilling and completion techniques can only be evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are established over a sufficiently long time period. If our drilling results are less than anticipated or we are unable to execute our drilling program because of capital constraints, lease expirations, access to gathering systems and limited takeaway capacity or otherwise, and/or oil and natural gas prices decline, the return on our investment in these areas may not be as attractive as we anticipate. We could incur material write-downs of unevaluated properties, and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future.Our exploration, development and exploitation projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to expiration of our leases or a decline in our estimated net oil and natural gas reserves.Our exploration and development activities are capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business for the development, exploitation, production and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. We spent $2,506.3 million (including acquisitions) and $1,148.6 million related to capital expenditures for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our capital expenditure budget for 2014 is approximately $1,425 million, with approximately $1,250 million allocated for drilling and completion operations. Since our IPO, our capital expenditures have been financed with proceeds from our IPO, net cash provided by operating activities, proceeds from our $2,200.0 million of senior unsecured notes and proceeds from our secondary equity offering. DeGolyer and MacNaughton projects that we will incur capital costs (including abandonment obligations) in excess of $1,844 million over the next four years to develop the proved undeveloped reserves in the Williston Basin covered by its December 31, 2013 reserve report. The actual amount and timing of our future capital expenditures may differ materially from our estimates as a result of, among other things, commodity prices, actual drilling results, the availability of drilling rigs and other services and equipment, and regulatory, technological and competitive developments.A significant increase in product prices could result in an increase in our capital expenditures. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures primarily through cash flows provided by operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility; however, our financing needs may require us to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of additional debt or equity securities or the sale of non-strategic assets. The issuance of additional debt or equity may require that a portion of our cash flows provided by operating activities be used for the payment of principal and interest on our debt, 29Table of Contentsthereby reducing our ability to use cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. The issuance of additional equity securities could have a dilutive effect on the value of our common stock. In addition, upon the issuance of certain debt securities (other than on a borrowing base redetermination date), our borrowing base under our revolving credit facility will be automatically reduced by an amount equal to 25% of the aggregate principal amount of such debt securities.Our cash flows provided by operating activities and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including:•our estimated net proved reserves;•the level of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells and new projected wells;•the prices at which our oil and natural gas are sold;•the costs of developing and producing our oil and natural gas production;•our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves;•the ability and willingness of our banks to lend; and•our ability to access the equity and debt capital markets.If the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility or our revenues decrease as a result of lower oil or natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If cash generated by operations or cash available under our revolving credit facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our drilling locations, which in turn could lead to a possible expiration of our leases and a decline in our estimated net proved reserves, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.If oil and natural gas prices decrease, we may be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties.We review our proved oil and natural gas properties for impairment whenever events and circumstances indicate that a decline in the recoverability of their carrying value may have occurred. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties, which may result in a decrease in the amount available under our revolving credit facility. A write-down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility and our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken. No impairment on proved oil and natural gas properties was recorded for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011.We will not be the operator on all of our drilling locations, and, therefore, we will not be able to control the timing of exploration or development efforts, associated costs, or the rate of production of any non-operated assets.We may enter into arrangements with respect to existing or future drilling locations that result in a greater proportion of our locations being operated by others. As a result, we may have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of the drilling locations operated by our partners. Dependence on the operator could prevent us from realizing our target returns for those locations. The success and timing of exploration and development activities operated by our partners will depend on a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control, including:•the timing and amount of capital expenditures;•the operator’s expertise and financial resources;•approval of other participants in drilling wells;•selection of technology; and•the rate of production of reserves, if any.This limited ability to exercise control over the operations of some of our drilling locations may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.All of our producing properties and operations are located in the Williston Basin region, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one major geographic area.30Table of ContentsAs of December 31, 2013, 100% of our proved reserves and production were located in the Williston Basin in northwestern North Dakota and northeastern Montana. As a result, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of production from these wells caused by transportation capacity constraints, curtailment of production, availability of equipment, facilities, personnel or services, significant governmental regulation, natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, plant closures for scheduled maintenance or interruption of transportation of oil or natural gas produced from the wells in this area. In addition, the effect of fluctuations on supply and demand may become more pronounced within specific geographic oil and natural gas producing areas such as the Williston Basin, which may cause these conditions to occur with greater frequency or magnify the effect of these conditions. Due to the concentrated nature of our portfolio of properties, a number of our properties could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other companies that have a more diversified portfolio of properties. Such delays or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our business depends on oil and natural gas gathering and transportation facilities, most of which are owned by third parties.The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering and pipeline systems owned by third parties. The unavailability of, or lack of, available capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay, or discontinuance of, development plans for properties. See also “Market conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production” and “Insufficient transportation or refining capacity in the Williston Basin could cause significant fluctuations in our realized oil and natural gas prices.” We generally do not purchase firm transportation on third party pipeline facilities, and therefore, the transportation of our production can be interrupted by other customers that have firm arrangements. In addition, these third parties may also impose specifications for the products that they are willing to accept. If the total mix of a product fails to meet the applicable product quality specifications, the third parties may refuse to accept all or a part of the products or may invoice us for the costs to handle or damages from receiving the out-of-specification products. In those circumstances, we may be required to delay the delivery of or find alternative markets for that product, or shut-in the producing wells that are causing the products to be out of specification, potentially reducing our revenues.The disruption of third-party facilities due to maintenance, weather or other interruptions of service could also negatively impact our ability to market and deliver our products. We have no control over when or if such facilities are restored. A total shut-in of our production could materially affect us due to a resulting lack of cash flow, and if a substantial portion of the production is hedged at lower than market prices, those financial hedges would have to be paid from borrowings absent sufficient cash flow. Potential crude oil rail derailments or crashes could also impact our ability to market and deliver our products and cause significant fluctuations in our realized oil and natural gas prices due to tighter safety regulations imposed on crude-by-rail transportation and interruptions in service.Insufficient transportation or refining capacity in the Williston Basin could cause significant fluctuations in our realized oil and natural gas prices.The Williston Basin crude oil business environment has historically been characterized by periods when oil production has surpassed local transportation and refining capacity, resulting in substantial discounts in the price received for crude oil versus prices quoted for WTI crude oil. Although additional Williston Basin transportation takeaway capacity was added from 2011 to 2013, production also increased due to the elevated drilling activity in these years. The increased production coupled with delays in rail car arrivals and commissioning of rail loading facilities caused price differentials at times to be at the high-end of the historical average range of approximately 10% to 15% of the WTI crude oil index price in the first half of 2012. During the second half of 2012 and first half of 2013, differentials improved due to expanding rail infrastructure and pipeline expansions coming on line. During the second half of 2013, our price differentials again increased as the pipeline market weakened as a result of refinery down time and increased United States and Canadian production. On barrels that are transported over pipelines to either Clearbrook, Minnesota or Guernsey, Wyoming, our realized price for crude oil is generally the quoted price for Bakken crude oil less transportation costs from the point where the crude oil is sold.Market conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production.Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends, in substantial part, on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third-parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. We may be required to shut in wells due to lack of a 31Table of Contentsmarket or inadequacy or unavailability of crude oil or natural gas pipelines or gathering system capacity. If our production becomes shut-in for any of these or other reasons, we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until other arrangements were made to deliver the products to market.The development of our proved undeveloped reserves in the Williston Basin and other areas of operation may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Therefore, our undeveloped reserves may not be ultimately developed or produced.Approximately 46% of our estimated net proved reserves were classified as proved undeveloped as of December 31, 2013. Development of these reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Delays in the development of our reserves or increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves will reduce the PV-10 value of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves and future net revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic. In addition, delays in the development of reserves could cause us to have to reclassify our proved reserves as unproved reserves.Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Unless we conduct successful development, exploitation and exploration activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our estimated net proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our cash flows and income, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, the value of our reserves will decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our operations. Additionally, we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks.We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of:•environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and tank ruptures, encountering naturally occurring radioactive materials and unauthorized discharges of brine, well stimulation and completion fluids, toxic gas or other pollutants into the environment;•abnormally pressured formations;•shortages of, or delays in, obtaining water for hydraulic fracturing activities;•mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and casing failure;•personal injuries and death; and•natural disasters.Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to us as a result of:•injury or loss of life;•damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;•pollution and other environmental damage;•regulatory investigations and penalties;•suspension of our operations; and•repair and remediation costs.We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.32Table of ContentsWe have incurred losses in prior years and may do so again in the future. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we had net income of $228.0 million, $153.4 million and $79.4 million, respectively. However, prior to 2011, we incurred net losses. Our development of and participation in an increasingly larger number of drilling locations has required and will continue to require substantial capital expenditures, including planned capital expenditures for 2014 of approximately $1,425 million.The uncertainty and risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may impede our ability to economically find, develop, exploit and acquire oil and natural gas reserves. As a result, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flows provided by operating activities in the future.Drilling locations that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities.Our drilling locations are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a location which is ready to drill to a location that will require substantial additional interpretation. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular location will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in sufficient quantities to be economically viable. Even if sufficient amounts of oil or natural gas exist, we may damage the potentially productive hydrocarbon bearing formation or experience mechanical difficulties while drilling or completing the well, resulting in a reduction in production from the well or abandonment of the well. If we drill additional wells that we identify as dry holes in our current and future drilling locations, our drilling success rate may decline and materially harm our business. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored locations or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling locations. Further, initial production rates reported by us or other operators in the Williston Basin may not be indicative of future or long-term production rates. In sum, the cost of drilling, completing and operating any well is often uncertain, and new wells may not be productive.Our potential drilling location inventories are scheduled to be drilled over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. In addition, we may not be able to raise the substantial amount of capital that would be necessary to drill a substantial portion of our potential drilling locations.Our management has identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These potential drilling locations, including those without proved undeveloped reserves, represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations is subject to a number of uncertainties, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, oil and natural gas prices, costs and drilling results. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous potential drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. Pursuant to existing SEC rules and guidance, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking. These rules and guidance may limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program.Our acreage must be drilled before lease expiration, generally within three to five years, in order to hold the acreage by production. In the highly competitive market for acreage, failure to drill sufficient wells in order to hold acreage will result in a substantial lease renewal cost, or if renewal is not feasible, loss of our lease and prospective drilling opportunities.Unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the locations are identified, the leases for such acreage will expire. As of December 31, 2013, we had leases representing 15,186 net acres expiring in 2014, 27,520 net acres expiring in 2015 and 14,719 net acres expiring in 2016. The cost to renew such leases may increase significantly, and we may not be able to renew such leases on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, on certain portions of our acreage, third-party leases become immediately effective if our leases expire. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from our current expectations, which could adversely affect our business. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $1.2 million, and during each of the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $3.6 million on our unproved properties due to expiring leases and periodic assessments of our unproved properties.Our operations are subject to environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.Our oil and natural gas exploration and production operations are subject to stringent and comprehensive federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations governing occupational health and safety aspects of our operations, the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous 33Table of Contentsobligations that are applicable to our operations including the acquisition of a permit before conducting drilling or underground injection activities; the restriction of types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment; the limitation or prohibition of drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection; and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA, and analogous state agencies have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations; and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations.There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the performance of our operations as a result of our handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of air emissions and waste water discharges related to our operations and due to historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we could be subject to joint and several, strict liability for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or contamination or if the operations were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. Private parties, including the owners of properties upon which our wells are drilled and facilities where our petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. In addition, the risk of accidental spills or releases could expose us to significant liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of well drilling, construction, completion on water management activities or operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. For example, the North Dakota Industrial Commission adopted regulations in late 2013 that impose more rigorous pipeline development standards on midstream operators, some of whom we rely upon to construct and operate pipeline infrastructure to transport the oil and natural gas we produce, and the state agency is also considering the designation of certain areas within the state as “extraordinary,” that, if adopted, may require exploration and production operators who seek to operate in such areas to file impact mitigation plans that would minimize disturbances to those areas. Additionally, new regulations could result in the issuance of less drilling permits or the issuance of permits at a slower rate, which could impact our overall drilling program. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance.Failure to comply with federal, state and local laws could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport our oil and natural gas and may result in substantial penalties.Our operations are substantially affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations, particularly as they relate to the regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation. These laws and regulations include regulation of oil and natural gas exploration and production and related operations, including a variety of activities related to the drilling of wells, the interstate transportation of oil and natural gas by federal agencies such as the FERC, as well as state agencies. In addition, federal laws prohibit market manipulation in connection with the purchase or sale of oil and/or natural gas. Failure to comply with federal, state and local laws could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport our oil and natural gas and may result in substantial penalties. Please see “Other federal laws and regulations affecting our industry.”Climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives restricting emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce while the physical effects of climate change could disrupt our production and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects.Based on findings by the EPA in December 2009 that emissions of GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes, the EPA adopted regulations under existing provisions of the CAA that establish PSD construction and Title V operating permit reviews for certain large stationary sources that are potential major sources of GHG emissions. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions also will be required to meet “best available control technology” standards that will be established by the states or the EPA. These EPA rules could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified sources in the United States, including, among others, certain onshore oil and natural gas production facilities on an annual basis, which includes certain of our operations. While Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce GHG emissions at the federal level in recent years. In the absence of such federal climate legislation, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking and/or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of GHG emissions, such as electric power plants, to acquire and 34Table of Contentssurrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. If Congress undertakes comprehensive tax reform in the coming year, it is possible that such reform may include a carbon tax, which could impose additional direct costs on operations and reduce demand for refined products. The adoption and implementation of any legislation or regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our exploration and production operations.Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing as well as governmental reviews of such activities could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells and adversely affect our production.Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas and/or oil from dense subsurface rock formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the targeted subsurface formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We routinely use hydraulic fracturing techniques in many of our drilling and completion programs. The process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel fuels and published draft permitting guidance addressing the performance of such activities using diesel fuels. In November 2011, the EPA announced its intent to develop and issue regulations under the Toxic Substances Control Act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing and the agency continues to project issuance of a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that would seek public input on the design and scope of such disclosure regulations. In addition, Congress has from time to time considered legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. At the state level, some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. Local government also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular. If new or more stringent federal, state, or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells.In addition, certain governmental reviews have been conducted or are underway that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with a draft report drawing conclusions about the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources expected to be available for public comment and peer review in 2014. Moreover, the EPA has announced that it will develop effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities in 2014. The U.S. Department of Energy has conducted an investigation into practices the agency could recommend to better protect the environment from drilling using hydraulic fracturing completion methods and issued a report in 2011 on immediate and longer-term actions that may be taken to reduce environmental and safety risks of shale gas development. Also, in May 2013, the federal Bureau of Land Management published a supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking governing hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian oil and gas leases that would require public disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing, confirmation that wells used in fracturing operations meet appropriate construction standards, and development of appropriate plans for managing flowback water that returns to the surface. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act or other regulatory mechanisms.Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties, market oil and natural gas and secure trained personnel.Our ability to acquire additional drilling locations and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing equipment and trained personnel. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory drilling locations or to identify, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and locations than our financial or personnel resources permit. Furthermore, these companies may also be better able to withstand the financial pressures of unsuccessful drilling attempts, sustained periods of volatility in financial markets and 35Table of Contentsgenerally adverse global and industry-wide economic conditions, and may be better able to absorb the burdens resulting from changes in relevant laws and regulations, which would adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. The cost to attract and retain qualified personnel has increased over the past few years due to competition and may increase substantially in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.The loss of senior management or technical personnel could adversely affect our operations.To a large extent, we depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. The loss of the services of our senior management or technical personnel, including Thomas B. Nusz, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Taylor L. Reid, our President and Chief Operating Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals.Seasonal weather conditions adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate.Oil and natural gas operations in the Williston Basin are adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions. In the Williston Basin, drilling and other oil and natural gas activities cannot be conducted as effectively during the winter months. Severe winter weather conditions limit and may temporarily halt our ability to operate during such conditions. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay or temporarily halt our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs.Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our income.To achieve more predictable cash flows and to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas, we currently, and may in the future, enter into derivative arrangements for a portion of our oil and natural gas production, including collars and fixed-price swaps. We have not designated any of our derivative instruments as hedges for accounting purposes and record all derivative instruments on our balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments are recognized in earnings. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments.Derivative arrangements also expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when:•production is less than the volume covered by the derivative instruments;•the counterparty to the derivative instrument defaults on its contract obligations; or•there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual price received.In addition, some of these types of derivative arrangements limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil and natural gas and may expose us to cash margin requirements.The enactment of derivatives legislation and regulation could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the negative effect of commodity price changes, interest rate and other risks associated with our business.On July 21, 2010, new comprehensive financial reform legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), was enacted that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the CFTC, the SEC and other regulators to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation. In its rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC has issued final regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions would be exempt from these position limits. The position limits rule was vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in September of 2012, although the CFTC has stated that it will appeal the District Court’s decision. The CFTC also has finalized other regulations, including critical rulemakings on the definition of “swap,” “security-based swap,” “swap dealer” and “major swap participant.” The Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC Rules also will require us in connection with certain derivatives activities to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements (or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements). In addition, new regulations may require us to comply with margin requirements although these regulations are not finalized and their application to us is uncertain at this time. Other regulations also remain to be finalized, and the CFTC recently has delayed the compliance dates for various regulations already finalized. As a result, it is not possible at this time to predict with certainty the full effects of the Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules on us and the timing of such effects. The 36Table of ContentsDodd-Frank Act may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties. The Dodd-Frank Act and regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including from swap recordkeeping and reporting requirements and through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Increased costs of capital could adversely affect our business.Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. Changes in any one or more of these factors could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our access to capital, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce our cash flows available for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. Recent and continuing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results.We may not be able to generate enough cash flow to meet our debt obligations.We expect our earnings and cash flow to vary significantly from year to year due to the nature of our industry. As a result, the amount of debt that we can manage in some periods may not be appropriate for us in other periods. Additionally, our future cash flow may be insufficient to meet our debt obligations and other commitments. Any insufficiency could negatively impact our business. A range of economic, competitive, business and industry factors will affect our future financial performance, and, as a result, our ability to generate cash flow from operations and to pay our debt obligations. Many of these factors, such as oil and natural gas prices, economic and financial conditions in our industry and the global economy and initiatives of our competitors, are beyond our control. If we do not generate enough cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as:•selling assets;•reducing or delaying capital investments;•seeking to raise additional capital; or•refinancing or restructuring our debt.If for any reason we are unable to meet our debt service and repayment obligations, we would be in default under the terms of the agreements governing our debt, which would allow our creditors at that time to declare all outstanding indebtedness to be due and payable, which would in turn trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default rights between the relevant agreements. In addition, our lenders could compel us to apply all of our available cash to repay our borrowings or they could prevent us from making payments on our senior unsecured notes. If amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility or our senior unsecured notes were to be accelerated, we cannot be certain that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to the lenders or to our other debt holders. Please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and capital resources.”Our revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes all contain operating and financial restrictions that may restrict our business and financing activities.Our revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes contain a number of restrictive covenants that will impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things:•sell assets, including equity interests in our subsidiaries;•pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our common stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt;•make investments;37Table of Contents•incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock;•create or incur certain liens;•make certain acquisitions and investments;•redeem or prepay other debt;•enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us;•consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets;•engage in transactions with affiliates;•create unrestricted subsidiaries;•enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and•engage in certain business activities.As a result of these covenants, we will be limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs.Our ability to comply with some of the covenants and restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes may be affected by events beyond our control. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. A failure to comply with the covenants, ratios or tests in our revolving credit facility, the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes or any future indebtedness could result in an event of default under our revolving credit facility, the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes or our future indebtedness, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.If an event of default under our revolving credit facility occurs and remains uncured, the lenders thereunder:•would not be required to lend any additional amounts to us;•could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable;•may have the ability to require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings; or•may prevent us from making debt service payments under our other agreements.A payment default or an acceleration under our revolving credit facility could result in an event of default and an acceleration under the indentures for our senior unsecured notes. If the indebtedness under the notes were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to repay such indebtedness in full. In addition, our obligations under our revolving credit facility are collateralized by perfected first priority liens and security interests on substantially all of our assets, including mortgage liens on oil and natural gas properties having at least 80% of the reserve value as determined by reserve reports, and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under the revolving credit facility, the lenders could seek to foreclose on our assets. Please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and capital resources.”Our level of indebtedness may increase and reduce our financial flexibility.As of December 31, 2013, we had $335.6 million of outstanding borrowings and had $5.2 million of outstanding letters of credit under our revolving credit facility, $1,159.2 million available for future secured borrowings under our revolving credit facility and $2,200.0 million outstanding in senior unsecured notes. Please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Liquidity and capital resources–Senior secured revolving line of credit” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Liquidity and capital resources–Senior unsecured notes.” In the future, we may incur significant indebtedness in order to make future acquisitions or to develop our properties.Our level of indebtedness could affect our operations in several ways, including the following:•a significant portion of our cash flows could be used to service our indebtedness;•a high level of debt would increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;•the covenants contained in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay dividends and make certain investments;38Table of Contents•our debt covenants may also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry;•a high level of debt may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our indebtedness would prevent us from pursuing;•a high level of debt may make it more likely that a reduction in our borrowing base following a periodic redetermination could require us to repay a portion of our then-outstanding bank borrowings; and•a high level of debt may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes.A high level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of indebtedness depends on our future performance. General economic conditions, oil and natural gas prices and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to pay the interest on our debt and future working capital, and borrowings or equity financing may not be available to pay or refinance such debt. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our capital stock or a refinancing of our debt include financial market conditions, the value of our assets and our performance at the time we need capital.In addition, our bank borrowing base is subject to periodic redeterminations. We could be forced to repay a portion of our bank borrowings due to redeterminations of our borrowing base. If we are forced to do so, we may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments. If we do not have sufficient funds and are otherwise unable to negotiate renewals of our borrowings or arrange new financing, we may have to sell significant assets. Any such sale could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.The inability of one or more of our customers to meet their obligations to us may adversely affect our financial results.Our principal exposures to credit risk are through receivables resulting from the sale of our oil and natural gas production ($175.7 million in receivables at December 31, 2013), which we market to energy marketing companies, refineries and affiliates, and joint interest receivables ($139.5 million at December 31, 2013).We are subject to credit risk due to the concentration of our oil and natural gas receivables with several significant customers. This concentration of customers may impact our overall credit risk since these entities may be similarly affected by changes in economic and other conditions. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, sales to Musket Corporation accounted for approximately 11% and 10% of our total sales, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2011, sales to Texon L.P., Plains All American Pipeline, L.P. and Enserco Energy Inc. accounted for approximately 18%, 16% and 15%, respectively, of our total sales. No other purchasers accounted for more than 10% of our total oil and natural gas sales for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. We do not require all of our customers to post collateral. The inability or failure of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us or their insolvency or liquidation may adversely affect our financial results.Joint interest receivables arise from billing entities who own a partial interest in the wells we operate. These entities participate in our wells primarily based on their ownership in leases on which we choose to drill. We have limited ability to control participation in our wells. In addition, our oil and natural gas derivative arrangements expose us to credit risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties. Derivative assets and liabilities arising from derivative contracts with the same counterparty are reported on a net basis, as all counterparty contracts provide for net settlement. At December 31, 2013, we had derivatives in place with six counterparties and a total net derivative liability of $4.7 million.We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions, including the West Williston Acquisition and the East Nesson Acquisitions, because of uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves, well performance and potential liabilities, as well as uncertainties in forecasting oil and gas prices and future development, production and marketing costs, and the integration of significant acquisitions may be difficult.We periodically evaluate acquisitions of reserves, properties, prospects and leaseholds and other strategic transactions that appear to fit within our overall business strategy. The successful acquisition of substantially all the assets we acquired in the West Williston Acquisition and the East Nesson Acquisitions as well as other producing properties that we acquire requires an assessment of several factors, including:•recoverable reserves;•future oil and natural gas prices and their appropriate differentials;39Table of Contents•development and operating costs;•potential for future drilling and production;•validity of the seller’s title to the properties, which may be less than expected at the time of signing the purchase agreement; and•potential environmental issues, litigation and other liabilities.The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and potential recoverable reserves. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities or title defects in excess of the amounts claimed by us before closing and acquire properties on an “as is” basis. Indemnification from the sellers will generally be effective only during the twelve-month period after the closing and subject to certain dollar limitations and minimums. We may not be able to collect on such indemnification because of disputes with the sellers or their inability to pay. Moreover, there is a risk that we could ultimately be liable for unknown obligations related to the West Williston Acquisition and the East Nesson Acquisitions, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Significant acquisitions and other strategic transactions may involve other risks, including:•diversion of our management’s attention to evaluating, negotiating and integrating significant acquisitions and strategic transactions;•the challenge and cost of integrating acquired operations, information management and other technology systems and business cultures with those of our operations while carrying on our ongoing business;•difficulty associated with coordinating geographically separate organizations;•an inability to secure, on acceptable terms, sufficient financing that may be required in connection with expanded operations and unknown liabilities; and•the challenge of attracting and retaining personnel associated with acquired operations.The process of integrating assets, including the assets acquired in the West Williston Acquisition and the East Nesson Acquisitions, could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. Members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our business. If our senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. In addition, even if we successfully integrate the assets acquired in the West Williston Acquisition, the East Nesson Acquisitions or another acquisition, it may not be possible to realize the full benefits we may expect in estimated proved reserves, production volume, cost savings from operating synergies or other benefits anticipated from an acquisition or realize these benefits within the expected time frame.Anticipated benefits of an acquisition may be offset by operating losses relating to changes in commodity prices in oil and natural gas industry conditions, risks and uncertainties relating to the exploratory prospects of the combined assets or operations, failure to retain key personnel, an increase in operating or other costs or other difficulties. If we fail to realize the benefits we anticipate from an acquisition, our results of operations and stock price may be adversely affected.If we fail to realize the anticipated benefits of a significant acquisition, our results of operations may be lower than we expect.The success of a significant acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated growth opportunities from combining the acquired assets or operations with those of ours. Even if a combination is successful, it may not be possible to realize the full benefits we may expect in estimated net proved reserves, production volume, cost savings from operating synergies or other benefits anticipated from an acquisition or realize these benefits within the expected time frame. Anticipated benefits of an acquisition may be offset by operating losses relating to changes in commodity prices, or in oil and natural gas industry conditions, or by risks and uncertainties relating to the exploratory prospects of the combined assets or operations, or an increase in operating or other costs or other difficulties. If we fail to realize the benefits we anticipate from an acquisition, our results of operations may be adversely affected.40Table of ContentsWe may incur losses as a result of title defects in the properties in which we invest.It is our practice in acquiring oil and gas leases or interests not to incur the expense of retaining lawyers to examine the title to the mineral interest. Rather, we rely upon the judgment of oil and gas lease brokers or landmen who perform the fieldwork in examining records in the appropriate governmental office before attempting to acquire a lease in a specific mineral interest.Prior to the drilling of an oil or gas well, however, it is the normal practice in our industry for the person or company acting as the operator of the well to obtain a preliminary title review to ensure there are no obvious defects in the title to the well. Frequently, as a result of such examinations, certain curative work must be done to correct defects in the marketability of the title, and such curative work entails expense. Our failure to cure any title defects may adversely impact our ability in the future to increase production and reserves. There is no assurance that we will not suffer a monetary loss from title defects or title failure. Additionally, undeveloped acreage has greater risk of title defects than developed acreage. If there are any title defects or defects in assignment of leasehold rights in properties in which we hold an interest, we will suffer a financial loss.Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of proposed legislation.President Obama’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2014 recommended the elimination of certain key United States federal income tax preferences currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for United States production activities for oil and gas production, and (iv) the extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether any such changes or similar changes will be enacted or, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of this legislation or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax law could affect certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and production. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Risks Relating to our Common StockWe do not intend to pay, and we are currently prohibited from paying, dividends on our common stock and, consequently, our shareholders’ only opportunity to achieve a return on their investment is if the price of our stock appreciates.We do not plan to declare dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Additionally, we are currently prohibited from making any cash dividends pursuant to the terms of our revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes. Consequently, our shareholders’ only opportunity to achieve a return on their investment in us will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates, which may not occur, and the shareholder sells their shares at a profit. There is no guarantee that the price of our common stock will ever exceed the price that the shareholder paid.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our Board of Directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders, including:•a classified Board of Directors, so that only approximately one-third of our directors are elected each year;•limitations on the removal of directors; and•limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings and establish advance notice provisions for stockholder proposals and nominations for elections to the Board of Directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders.Delaware law prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with any “interested stockholder,” meaning generally that a stockholder who beneficially owns more than 15% of our stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date this person became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our Board of Directors.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments41Table of ContentsNone.