Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information contained in this Registration Statement. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related To Our Emergence From Bankruptcy Our actual financial results may vary significantly from the projections filed with the Bankruptcy Court. In connection with the chapter 11 reorganization, the Debtors were required to prepare projected financial information to demonstrate to the Bankruptcy Court the feasibility of the Plan of Reorganization and the ability of the Debtors to continue operations upon emergence from bankruptcy. The projections reflected numerous assumptions concerning anticipated future performance and prevailing and anticipated market and economic conditions that were and continue to be beyond our and the other Debtors' control and that may not materialize. Projections are inherently subject to uncertainties and to a wide variety of significant business, economic and competitive risks. Our actual results may vary from those contemplated by the projections and the variations may be material. 19 Table of Contents Neither these projections nor any form of the disclosure statement should be considered or relied upon in connection with the purchase of our securities. Because our consolidated financial statements are required to reflect fresh-start reporting adjustments to be made upon emergence from bankruptcy, the financial information in our financial statements prepared after the fresh-start date is not comparable to our financial information from prior periods. All conditions required for the adoption of fresh-start reporting were met upon emergence from chapter 11 on October 28, 2010. For accounting convenience, we adopted fresh-start accounting as of October 31, 2010. Fresh-start reporting requires that the reorganization or enterprise value, which is intended to reflect the fair value of the entity and approximates the amount a willing buyer would pay for the assets of the entity immediately after the reorganization, be allocated in conformity with the purchase method of accounting for business combinations. As required by purchase accounting, our assets and liabilities were adjusted to fair value. In addition, under fresh-start reporting the accumulated deficit was eliminated. Thus, our future consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statement of operations will not be comparable in many respects to these statements for periods prior to October 31, 2010. The lack of comparable historical information may discourage investors from purchasing our securities. Additionally, the financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not be indicative of future financial information. There is uncertainty regarding our ability to execute our strategic plan. We have incurred significant losses from continuing operations for each fiscal year since inception prior to emergence from bankruptcy. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon, among other things: (i) our ability to successfully achieve improved operating performance; (ii) our ability to maintain adequate cash on hand; (iii) our ability to generate cash from operations; and (iv) our ability to establish and maintain profitability. As discussed under "Operational Matters," we are in the process of implementing our revised strategic plan. The strategic plan served as a basis for our Plan of Reorganization. It is possible that the actual outcome of one or more of management's plans could be materially different or that one or more of management's significant judgments or estimates about the potential effects of the risks and uncertainties could prove to be materially incorrect. If one or more of these possible outcomes is realized, we may not be able to continue as a going concern and you could lose some or all of your investment. If we experience an ownership change, it could have adverse tax consequences. Pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization, we amended the certificate of incorporation of the Company to add certain restrictions on the acquisition of its stock to reduce the likelihood of an "ownership change" that could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. Despite these restrictions, an ownership change with adverse tax consequences is still possible. Although we will monitor transfers of our stock in order to take additional action, if feasible, to avoid an ownership change, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer an ownership change with substantial adverse tax consequences. 20 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Business Our business faces a variety of financial, operating and market risks, including the following: Deficiencies in our critical back-office systems and IT infrastructure have negatively impacted our ability to operate as a stand-alone provider of telecommunication services, which has had an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. To facilitate our transition to a stand-alone telecommunications provider following the 2005 Acquisition, we engaged BearingPoint to build and operate a back-office and IT infrastructure, including critical business processes, software applications (such as billing systems, corporate finance systems, human resources and payroll systems and customer relationship management systems), and hardware. This back-office and IT infrastructure was necessary to enable us to migrate off software systems provided by Verizon. On April 1, 2006, we ceased receiving services from Verizon. While the major network operational systems were built and functioned without significant problems at and after the April 1, 2006 cutover date, critical systems related to back-office functions lacked significant functionality, which led to customer care, order management and billing systems issues, which substantially impacted both customer satisfaction and collection efforts. In 2007, we entered into an Application Services Agreement with Accenture pursuant to which Accenture agreed to perform certain of the application development and management services previously performed by BearingPoint. We subsequently entered into an Amended and Restated Master Application Services Agreement with Accenture effective as of March 2009 to provide long-term information technology support services. It also has been necessary for us to incur significant incremental expenses to retain third-party service providers to provide manual processing services in order to operate our business. In addition to the costs of third-party service providers, we also incurred additional internal labor costs, in the form of diversion from other efforts. We expect to continue to incur incremental costs in the future, although the amount of such costs has declined and should continue to decline over time as our systems functionality improves. In addition to the significant expenses we have incurred, our lack of fully functional back-office and IT systems has adversely impacted our ability to fully implement our business strategy and effectively compete in the marketplace, which has had a negative effect on our business and results of operations. While we are continuing to work to improve the functionality of our systems and we have achieved significant improvement, there is no certainty that these activities will be entirely successful or when we will achieve the desired level of functionality. Until we are able to achieve this level of functionality, the deficiencies in our back-office and IT infrastructure may continue to negatively impact our ability to effectively compete in the marketplace and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business and operations. We have limited experience operating as a stand-alone provider of telecommunications services. We have limited experience operating as a stand-alone provider of telecommunications services. The increased costs and lack of flexibility associated with operating as a stand-alone provider of telecommunication services could negatively impact our financial results and ability to maintain compliance with the covenant requirements of the new credit facilities that we entered into in connection with our emergence from chapter 11 on October 28, 2010. We have made and expect to continue to make a significant amount of capital expenditures and to incur incremental transition related expenses in connection with our transition to a fully functional stand-alone provider of telecommunications services. In connection with our transition to a stand-alone telecommunications provider, we have made and expect to continue to make a significant amount of capital expenditures to, among other things, 21 Table of Contents enhance the capabilities of our network, enhance the functionality of our existing IT systems, and support the deployment of new products and services. We intend to fund these capital expenditures and expenses with operating cash flows and funds available to us under the new credit facilities that we entered into in connection with our emergence from chapter 11 on October 28, 2010. If the amount of capital expenditures and expenses required to be a fully functional stand-alone provider of telecommunications services exceeds those that are contemplated by our current business plan, our cash flows and available financing may be insufficient to fund such capital expenditures and expenses and to provide us with the liquidity that we otherwise would require. We rely on several material agreements to operate our business. The loss of certain of these agreements, or the failure of any third party to perform under certain of these agreements, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Since May 2005, several critical services historically provided by Verizon and its affiliates are provided by third-party service providers. For example, we have entered into agreements with Accenture and other third parties for the provision of, among other things, critical printing, billing, and IT services. The expiration or termination of certain of our material agreements by third- party service providers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Upon expiration or termination of these agreements, we may not be able to replace the services provided to us in a timely manner or on terms and conditions, including service levels and cost, favorable to us. The failure of these third-party service providers to satisfy their obligations under their agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, if these third-party service providers were to seek U.S. bankruptcy law protection, our agreements with such service providers, and such service providers' ability to provide the services under those agreements, could be adversely impacted, and although we may have a claim for damages against the bankruptcy estate, the claim may or may not be paid in the bankruptcy proceeding. Our business is subject to extensive governmental regulation. Applicable legislation and regulations and changes to them could adversely affect our business. We operate in a heavily regulated industry, and most of our revenues come from the provision of services regulated by the FCC and the HPUC. Laws and regulations applicable to us and our competitors may be, and have been, challenged in the courts and could be changed by federal or state legislative initiative, judicial review or regulatory agencies at any time. We cannot predict the impact of future developments or changes to the regulatory environment or the impact such developments or changes would have on us. There are a number of FCC policies under review that could have a significant impact on us. Changes to inter-carrier compensation that could impact our access revenues are possible. Changes to the universal service contribution methodology also have been proposed. Changes in FCC policies may increase our obligations and/or reduce our revenue. Further, the FCC's decisions are subject to judicial review. The uncertainty created by these pending FCC proceedings and related litigation make it difficult to predict their impact on us. In addition, state government regulation also is a source of business uncertainty. The outcome of the service quality proceeding, a requirement from the 2005 Acquisition, is not certain. In response to competitors' requests, the HPUC may initiate a proceeding to re-evaluate performance measures and to evaluate whether performance incentives applicable to our provision of services to competitors should be adopted. The HPUC also has deferred several matters from earlier telecommunications proceedings, which could be initiated in the future. We cannot predict whether state proceedings will be initiated or the possible outcome of such proceedings at this time. 22 Table of Contents A reduction by the HPUC or the FCC of the rates we charge our customers would reduce our revenues and could reduce our earnings. The rates we charge our local telephone customers are based, in part, on a rate-of-return authorized by the HPUC on capital invested in our network. These authorized rates, as well as allowable investment and expenses, are subject to review and change by the HPUC at any time. If the HPUC orders us to reduce our rates, our revenues would be reduced and our earnings also could be reduced absent corresponding reductions in costs or growth in services. We cannot assure you that our rates will remain at their current levels. In connection with the HPUC Order approving the Plan of Reorganization, we agreed with the Division of Consumer Advocacy that we would not submit a rate case with a test year earlier than 2013, unless the HPUC determines that it would be in the public interest to waive this requirement. In addition, the HPUC order received in connection with the 2007 sale of our directories publishing business imposed a condition requiring the imputation of revenues. Specifically, a directory publishing revenue credit in the annual amount of $42.6 million per year must be added as regulated revenues into the calculation of Hawaiian Telcom, Inc.'s earnings from 2008 to 2022 in all future rate cases, alternative form of regulation proceedings, or other proceedings before the HPUC investigating Hawaiian Telcom, Inc.'s earnings or financial performance. Such conditions may adversely affect our ability to obtain rate increases in the future. Also, our local exchange service competitors may gain a competitive advantage based on rules which favor competitors. For example, competitors have the ability to purchase our services at discounted rates set by the HPUC and to resell them at rates that are not subject to the level of regulatory scrutiny generally faced by us. Additionally, as a result of the state regulators permitting our competitors to intervene in rate-setting proceedings, there is a potential that such competitors could obtain business sensitive information about us during such proceedings. The FCC approves tariffs for interstate access and subscriber line charges, both of which are components of our network access revenue. The FCC currently is considering whether to restrain special access pricing by carriers like us subject to price caps on interstate rates. The FCC also is considering proposals to reduce switched interstate access charges for carriers like us and may require us to recover the foregone revenue from our end users. If the FCC lowers interstate switched or special access charges, we may be required to recover more revenue through subscriber line charges or forego this revenue altogether. This could reduce our revenue or impair our competitive position. The telecommunications industry is increasingly competitive, and we may have difficulty competing effectively. All sectors of the telecommunications industry are competitive. Competition in the markets in which we operate could: •reduce our customer base; •require us to lower rates and other prices in order to compete; or •require us to increase marketing expenditures and the use of discounting and promotional campaigns. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business. Wireline Services. As the ILEC, we face competition from resellers, local providers who lease UNEs from us and, to a lesser degree, from facilities-based providers of local telephone services. We have historically faced access line losses as a result of competition and substitution of traditional wireline services with wireless services. Access line losses have been faced by the industry as a whole, and we cannot assure you that access line losses will not continue in the future. In particular, 23 Table of Contents the increasing penetration of high-speed internet and VoIP could lead to further primary and second access line losses. Interconnection duties are governed, in part, by telecommunications rules and regulations related to the UNEs that must be provided. These rules and regulations remain subject to ongoing modifications. Our business is subject to extensive governmental regulation, and applicable legislation and regulations and changes to them could adversely affect our business. However, we received some regulatory relief in 2009 when the Hawaii State Legislature passed Act 180, which classified retail local exchange intrastate services as fully competitive. While HPUC approval and cost support filings are no longer required to establish or modify rates or to bundle service offerings, HPUC approval is required to raise the rate that existed for the retail service in the tariff at the time of implementation of Act 180. In addition, while cellular wireless services have historically complemented traditional local exchange and long distance services, existing and emerging wireless and IP technologies are increasingly competitive with local exchange and, particularly, long distance services in some or all of our service areas. Internet Services. We expect that the Internet access services business will continue to be highly competitive due to the absence of significant barriers to entry. We currently compete with a number of established online services companies, inter-exchange carriers and cable companies. Competition is particularly intense for broadband services. Advanced Communication and Network Services. The advanced communication and network services business is highly competitive. Many non-traditional players have emerged in the business communications market, attracted by the absence of significant barriers to entry. Many of these non-traditional players are capable of focusing on highly specialized areas of the market. Next Generation Television Service. The market for video services in Hawaii is dominated by Oceanic. On the island of Oahu, in particular, 94% of households on Oahu already are customers of Oceanic's cable service. Through Hawaiian Telcom Services Company, Inc., we filed an application for a video franchise for the island of Oahu with the State of Hawaii Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs (DCCA). There is no assurance the DCCA will grant the franchise, or that the franchise will be granted on a timely basis or on terms that are not unfavorable. Any such franchise may impose fees, burdens and conditions that do not take into account Oceanic's dominant position and consequently impose a relatively greater regulatory and financial burden on us or otherwise make it not feasible for us to compete with Oceanic or place us at a competitive disadvantage. Wireless Services. We provide wireless telecommunications services by use of a MVNO model in which we resell another carrier's facilities-based wireless services under the Hawaiian Telcom® brand name. The market in Hawaii for wireless telecommunications services is subject to intense competition. In addition, our wireless business may be less profitable than the wireless businesses of other telecommunications companies due to our use of a MVNO model. If we do not adapt to technological changes in the telecommunications industry, we could lose customers or market share. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, frequent new service introductions and evolving industry standards. We cannot predict the effect of these changes on our competitive position, profitability or industry. Technological developments may reduce the competitiveness of our network and require unbudgeted upgrades or the procurement of additional products that could be expensive and time consuming to implement. In addition, new products and services arising out of technological developments may reduce the attractiveness of our services. If we fail to adapt successfully to technological changes or fail to obtain access to important new technologies, we could lose customers and be limited in our ability to attract new customers and sell 24 Table of Contents new services to our existing customers. An element of our business strategy is to deliver enhanced and ancillary services to customers. The successful delivery of new services is uncertain and dependent on many factors, and we may not generate anticipated revenues from such services. The successful operation and growth of our businesses are dependent on economic conditions in Hawaii. Substantially all of our customers and operations are located in Hawaii. Because of our geographical position, the successful operation and growth of our businesses is dependent on economic conditions in Hawaii. The Hawaii economy, in turn, is dependent upon many factors, including: •the level of government and military spending; •the development of the local financial services industry; •the strength of the Hawaii tourism industry; •the continued growth in services industries; and •the absence of hurricanes or other natural disasters and terrorism incidents. The customer base for telecommunications services in Hawaii is small and geographically concentrated. The population of Hawaii is approximately 1.36 million, approximately 70% of whom live on the island of Oahu. Any adverse development affecting Oahu, or Hawaii generally, could substantially impact our ability to do business. Labor shortages or increased labor costs in Hawaii could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to hire and retain a sufficient labor force of qualified persons. Our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in negotiating a new collective bargaining agreement. As of March 1, 2011, 57% of our workforce was represented by IBEW Local 1357. Our current collective bargaining agreement will expire on September 12, 2011. Although we believe that our relations with our employees are good, we cannot assure you that future collective bargaining agreement negotiations will not result in significant increases in the cost of labor, or that a breakdown in such negotiations or relations will not result in the disruption of our operations. We depend on key members of our executive management team. Our future success as a stand-alone telecommunications provider is highly dependent upon members of our executive management team. Although certain of these members are subject to employment agreements and participate in the various incentive plans, such employment agreements may be terminated and the loss of the services of any such individuals or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect upon our future success as a stand-alone telecommunications provider. We do not maintain any "key person" insurance on any of our personnel. In 2008, we hired a new senior management team, including hiring Eric K. Yeaman as President and Chief Executive Officer, in an effort to explore strategic opportunities and improve operating results. Our future success will be dependent in part upon the abilities of the new senior management team to leverage their extensive management and operating experience to improve our financial performance and business operations. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. Following our emergence from chapter 11, we still have a significant amount of indebtedness in relation to our equity. Under the Plan of Reorganization, upon our emergence on October 28, 2010, our obligations under our former senior credit facilities and the indentures governing our former notes were cancelled, and we entered into the New Term Loan in the amount of $300 million and the Revolving Credit Facility in the amount of $30 million, each with a first priority lien on all assets of the Debtors. 25 Table of Contents Even with the reduction in debt, the debt service requirements of our indebtedness could: •make it more difficult for us to satisfy the service requirements of our other obligations, including pension funding obligations, investments required to maintain and upgrade our network and service fleet, investments required to introduce and deploy new products and services, as well as the operating costs of our businesses; •increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •require us to dedicate a higher than desired portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •make it difficult to secure credit terms with our vendors; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and •limit our ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the terms of the New Term Loan and the Revolving Credit Facility contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. The New Term Loan has a maturity date in 2015 and the Revolving Credit Facility has a maturity date in 2011. We generally do not expect to generate the necessary cash flow to repay the New Term Loan in its entirety by the maturity date and such repayment in full is dependent upon the ability to refinance the New Term Loan on reasonable terms. The ability to refinance the indebtedness on reasonable terms before the maturity date cannot be assured. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our new indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We will likely need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing the new indebtedness entered into upon emergence from chapter 11 on October 28, 2010 restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies, and a breach of such covenants may result in the acceleration of our long-term debt maturities. The restrictive covenants in the New Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility limit our ability, among other things, to: •incur additional indebtedness; 26 Table of Contents •pay dividends or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or to make certain other restricted payments or investments; •sell assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; •consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; •enter into transactions with our affiliates; •invest in new products and services or make capital expenditures; and •incur liens. In addition, the restrictive covenants may prohibit us from prepaying our other indebtedness and require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 