ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The section below discusses the most significant risks that may materially affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because of the following risks, as well as other factors affecting the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Relating to our Pending Amalgamation We may be unable to obtain satisfaction of all conditions to complete the Amalgamation, including the approval of our shareholders, in the anticipated timeframe. On January 18, 2013, we entered into the Amalgamation Agreement with Parent and Acquisition Sub, pursuant to which Parent has agreed to acquire SeaCube. Completion of the Amalgamation is contingent upon customary closing conditions, including approval of the Amalgamation Agreement by our shareholders. If our shareholders do not approve the Amalgamation Agreement at a shareholder meeting to be held after the related proxy statement is mailed to shareholders, the Amalgamation will not be consummated. Completion of the Amalgamation is also conditioned upon no more than 8% of our common shares being Dissenting Shares, as well as the receipt of approvals (i) by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States and (ii) under the foreign competition laws of the Republic of Cyprus. Although SeaCube and Parent have agreed in the Amalgamation Agreement to use reasonable best efforts to consummate the Amalgamation as promptly as practicable, these and the other conditions to the Amalgamation may fail to be satisfied. In addition, satisfying the conditions to, and completion of, the Amalgamation may take longer than, and could cost more than, we expect. Failure to complete the Amalgamation may adversely affect us. Failure to complete the Amalgamation could negatively impact our share price, future business and financial results. The conditions to the completion of the Amalgamation may not be satisfied as noted above. If the Amalgamation is not completed for any reason, we would still remain liable for significant transaction costs and the focus of our management would have been diverted from seeking other potential strategic opportunities, in each case without realizing any benefits of a completed amalgamation. Depending on the reasons for not completing the Amalgamation, we could also be required to pay Acquisition Sub a termination fee of $15.5 million. For these and other reasons, a failed amalgamation could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, the trading price of our common shares could be adversely affected to the extent that the current price reflects an assumption that the Amalgamation will be completed. While the Amalgamation is pending, we are subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions that could adversely affect our business. Our employees, customers and suppliers may have uncertainties about the effects of the Amalgamation. Although we have taken actions designed to reduce any adverse effects of these uncertainties, these uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees and could cause customers, suppliers and others that deal with us to try to change our existing business relationships. The pursuit of the Amalgamation and preparations for integration have placed and will continue to place a significant burden on many employees and internal resources. If, despite our efforts, key employees depart because of these uncertainties and burdens, or because they do not wish to remain with a combined company, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. While the Amalgamation is pending, some of our customers could delay or forgo purchasing or leasing decisions and suppliers could seek additional rights or benefits from us. In addition, the Amalgamation Agreement restricts us from taking certain actions with respect to our business and financial affairs without Parent’s consent, and these restrictions could be in place for an extended period of time if the Amalgamation is delayed. For these and other reasons, the pendency of the Amalgamation could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. 11 The Amalgamation Agreement generally requires us to operate our business in the ordinary course of business pending consummation of the Amalgamation, but includes certain contractual restrictions on the conduct of our business. In addition the pendency of the acquisition by Parent and the completion of the conditions to closing could divert the time and attention of our management. In addition, the Amalgamation Agreement prohibits us from, among other things, soliciting, initiating or knowingly encouraging or facilitating the submission of any proposal or engaging in any discussions or negotiations with respect to an alternative transaction, subject to exceptions set forth in the Amalgamation Agreement. The Amalgamation Agreement also provides that we are required to pay a termination fee of $15.5 million if the Amalgamation Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, including if we terminate to accept a superior alternative acquisition proposal. These provisions limit our ability to receive or pursue offers from third parties that may otherwise have resulted in greater value to our shareholders than the value resulting from the Amalgamation. Risks Related to Our Business Global economic growth and the volume of world trade are critical factors affecting demand for containerized leasing, and a decline in world trade can adversely affect our business. Demand for leasing our containers depends largely on the extent of world trade and economic growth, with U.S. consumer demand being the most critical factor affecting this growth. Economic downturns in one or more countries, particularly in the United States, the European Union, Asia and other countries and regions with consumer-oriented economies, have in the past, and in the future could, reduce world trade volume and/or demand by container shipping, rail and trucking lines for leased containers. Cyclical recessions can negatively affect lessors’ operating results because during economic downturns or periods of reduced trade, shipping lines tend to lease fewer containers and related assets or lease containers only at reduced rates, and tend to rely more on their own equipment and fleets to satisfy a greater percentage of their requirements. Thus, decreases in the volume of world trade may adversely affect our leased asset utilization and lease rates and lead to reduced revenue, reduced capital investment, increased operating expenses (such as storage and positioning) and reduced financial performance. The global recession that occurred in 2008 and 2009 demonstrated the negative impact that an economic downturn can have on our business. As a result of that downturn, container trade decreased by approximately 7% during 2009. This led to reduced demand for containers, lower utilization and lease rates and adversely affected our results. Although the containerized trade market recovered in 2010, we cannot predict whether, or when, any future economic downturns will occur. If there were an economic downturn and demand were to decrease, our financial performance might be adversely affected, and the impact to our financial results could be significant. The demand for leased containers depends on many economic, political and other factors beyond our control and these factors may adversely affect our business. We believe that a substantial amount of our leasing business involves shipments of goods exported from Asia. As a result, a negative change in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, particularly in China or Japan, may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In particular, in recent years, China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product and has become one of the world’s largest and fastest growing exporters. We cannot assure you that such growth will be sustained or that the Chinese economy will not experience slower or negative growth in the future, or that trade relations with China will not deteriorate. Moreover, if changes in exchange rates between the Chinese yuan and other currencies were to occur, the growth of Chinese exports could be affected. In addition, from time to time, there have been other disruptions in Asia, such as health scares, including SARS and avian flu, financial markets turmoil, natural disasters and political instability in certain countries. If these events were to occur in the future, they could adversely affect our lessees, a number of whom are entities domiciled in Asian countries, and the general demand for shipping and lead to reduced demand for leased containers or otherwise adversely affect us. 12 Other general factors affecting demand, utilization and per diem rates for leased containers include the following: ● the available supply and prices of new and used containers; ● the availability and terms of equipment financing; ● fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency values; ● economic conditions, and competitive pressures and consolidation in the shipping industry; ● the globalization of manufacturing; ● changes in the operating efficiency of our customers; ● fluctuations in supply and demand for products suitable for shipping in containers; ● fuel costs and their impact on overall transportation costs; ● developments in international trade and shifting trends and patterns of cargo and trucking traffic; ● the price of steel and other raw materials; ● acts of God such as droughts, storms, or other natural disasters such as the recent earthquake in Chile, which is reported to have damaged shipping ports and disrupted agricultural and fishing operations, flu or other pandemics that result in economic disruptions that may disrupt or interfere with trade or otherwise affect local and global economies; ● overcapacity or undercapacity of the container manufacturers; ● the lead times required to purchase containers; ● the number of containers purchased by competitors and lessees; ● increased repositioning by container shipping lines of their own empty containers, as the case may be, to higher-demand locations in lieu of leasing equipment from us; ● consolidation or withdrawal of individual lessees in the container shipping industry; ● import/export tariffs, trade barriers and restrictions; ● customs procedures, foreign exchange controls and other environmental and regulatory developments; ● changes in the credit ratings on U.S. government debt securities or default or delay in payment by the United States of its obligations; and ● global and regional economic and political conditions. All of these factors are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control. These factors will vary over time, often quickly and unpredictably, and any change in one or more of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Many of these factors also influence the decision by current and potential customers to lease our containers. Should one or more of these factors influence current and potential customers to buy a larger percentage of the container assets they operate, our utilization rate could decrease, resulting in decreased revenue, increased storage and repositioning costs, and as a result, lower operating cash flow. 13 Changing macroeconomic and business conditions have and could continue to negatively impact our business. The global financial markets have experienced significant volatility and disruption. While these conditions have stabilized since the first quarter of 2009 and the capital markets generally have shown signs of improvement, the sustainability of an economic recovery is uncertain and additional macroeconomic, business and financial disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows and financial condition, as well as our future prospects. Continued issues involving liquidity and capital adequacy affecting lenders could affect our ability to fully access our credit facilities or obtain additional debt and could affect the ability of our lenders to meet their funding requirements when we need to borrow. Further, volatility in the equity markets may make it difficult in the future for us to access the equity markets for additional capital at attractive prices, if at all. The recent credit crisis in Greece, for example, and concerns over debt levels of certain other European Union member states, increased volatility in global credit and equity markets. If we are unable to access existing credit, obtain new credit or access the capital markets, our business could be negatively impacted, as could our ability to pay dividends. See “We intend to incur substantial additional debt and issue substantial additional equity in order to expand our business and pay dividends.” We further believe that many of our customers are reliant on liquidity from global credit markets and, in some cases, require external financing to fund a portion of their operations. As a consequence, if our customers lack liquidity, it would likely negatively impact their ability to pay amounts due to us. These and other factors affecting the container industry are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control. Equipment prices and lease rates may decrease, which may adversely affect our earnings. Container lease rates depend on the cost of the container, the type and length of the lease, the type and age of the container equipment, competition, the location of the container being leased, and other factors more fully discussed herein. Because steel is the major component used in the construction of new containers, the price for new containers, as well as prevailing lease rates, are both highly correlated with the price of steel. In the late 1990s, new equipment prices and lease rates declined due to, among other factors, a drop in worldwide steel prices and a shift in container manufacturing from Taiwan and Korea to areas with lower labor costs in mainland China. Such factors, among others, may cause container prices and leasing rates to fall again. In 2009, new equipment prices and lease rates declined due to a lack of demand for containerized cargo. However, in 2010, new equipment prices and lease rates increased due to a shortage of production capacity and increased demand for containers. In addition, lease rates can be negatively impacted by the entrance of new leasing companies, overproduction of new containers by factories and over-buying by shipping lines and leasing competitors. For example, during 2001 and 2005, overproduction of new containers, coupled with a build-up of container inventories in Asia by leasing companies and shipping lines, led to decreasing prices and utilization rates. In the event that the container shipping industry were to be characterized by over-capacity in the future, or if available supply of intermodal assets were to increase significantly as a result of, among other factors, new companies entering the business of leasing and selling intermodal equipment, both utilization and lease rates can be expected to decrease, thereby adversely affecting the revenues generated by our container leasing business. We face competition in the container leasing industry, and if we are not able to compete successfully, our business will be harmed. The container leasing industry is highly competitive. We compete with many container leasing companies, financial institutions such as banks, as well as shipping lines, which sometimes lease their excess container stocks. Some of these competitors may have large, underutilized inventories of containers, which could lead to downward pressure on lease rates, asset utilization and operating margins. 14 Competition among container leasing companies depends upon many factors, including, among others, lease rates, lease terms (including lease duration, drop-off restrictions and repair provisions), customer service, and the location, availability, quality and individual characteristics of equipment as well as quality and experience of an equipment manager. New entrants into the leasing business have been attracted by the high rate of containerized trade growth in recent years, and new entrants have generally been less disciplined, in our opinion, than we are in pricing and structuring leases. As a result, the entry of new market participants together with the already highly competitive nature of our industry may undermine our ability to maintain a high level of asset utilization or, alternatively, could force us to reduce our pricing and accept lower revenue and profit margins in order to achieve our growth plans. Our customers may decide to buy rather than lease containers, which would adversely affect our earnings. We, like other suppliers of leased containers, are dependent upon decisions by shipping lines to lease rather than buy their containers. If shipping lines decide to buy a larger percentage of the containers they operate, our utilization rates would decrease, resulting in decreased leasing revenue, increased storage and repositioning costs and lower operating cash flow. Most of the factors affecting the decisions of our customers, including whether to lease or buy their equipment, are outside our control. See “The demand for leased containers depends on many economic, political and other factors beyond our control and these factors may adversely affect our business.” While the percentage of containers leased compared with the percentage of containers owned by shipping companies has been fairly steady historically, several factors may cause the percentage of leased containers to decrease in the future. These factors include, among other things, access of shipping lines to lower-cost bank financing, the consolidation of the shipping industry and improvements in information technology. The materialization of any of such trends could negatively affect our business. Lessee defaults and terminations of agreements by our customers may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operation and cash flow by decreasing revenue and increasing storage, positioning, repair, collection and recovery expenses. Our containers are leased to numerous customers. Lease payments and other compensation, as well as indemnification for damage to or loss of leased containers, is generally payable by the end users under leases and other arrangements. Inherent in the nature of the leases and other arrangements for use of the containers is the risk that once a lease is consummated, we may not receive, or may experience delay in realizing, all of the compensation and other amounts to be paid in respect of the leased containers. Furthermore, not all of our customers provide detailed financial information regarding their operations. As a result, customer risk is in part assessed on the basis of our customers’ reputation in the market, and there can be no assurance that they can or will fulfill their obligations under the contracts we enter into with them. Our customers could incur financial difficulties, or otherwise have difficulty making payments to us when due for any number of factors which may be out of our control and which we may be unable to anticipate. If a sufficient number of our customers were to default or were to terminate or restructure their agreements with us, in particular one or more of our largest customers, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation. We do not maintain any credit insurance with respect to non-payment of receivables by our lessees. A delay or diminution in amounts received under the leases and other arrangements could adversely affect our business and financial prospects and our ability to make payments on our debt or to pay dividends to our shareholders. In general, the profitability of our shipping line customers deteriorated significantly in 2008 due to decreasing freight rates caused by excess vessel capacity and most major shipping lines recorded large financial losses in 2009. These losses increased the risk of default by our customers. While most of our customers have reported improving financial performance and productivity, we cannot be assured this will continue in the future. The cash flow from our containers, principally lease rentals, management fees, and proceeds from the sale of owned containers, is affected significantly by the ability to collect payments under leases and other arrangements for the use of the leased equipment and the ability to replace cash flows from terminating leases by re-leasing or selling leased equipment on favorable terms. All of these factors are subject to external economic conditions and the performance by lessees and service providers that will not fully be within our control. 15 When lessees default, we may fail to recover all of our leased containers, and the containers we do recover may be returned in damaged condition or to locations where we will not be able to efficiently re-lease or sell them. We may have to repair and reposition such recovered containers to other places where we can re-lease or sell them, which could be expensive depending on the locations and distances involved. As a result, we may lose lease or management revenues and incur additional operating expenses in repossessing, repositioning, repairing and storing the equipment. We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in revenue resulting from a default by, any key customer could significantly reduce our revenue. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from a relatively small number of customers. We earned approximately 67%, 65% and 64% of revenues from our top ten customers for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Although each individual lease covers a distinct group of containers and no single lease with any customer contributed more than 5% of our revenue, the aggregate revenue from CMA-CGM and Mediterranean Shipping accounted for approximately 14% and 11%, respectively, of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012. Our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on our ability to enter into agreements with these customers. The loss of, or a significant reduction in revenue from, any of our key customers, or a default by any key customers on its obligations under any contract with us, or the restructuring of lease agreements due to economic circumstances facing our customers would significantly reduce our revenue and adversely affect our business. In addition, some of the contracts under which we lease our containers contain early termination provisions. Although in the past we have experienced minimal early returns due in part to penalties including early termination fees and costs associated with repairs and repositioning upon return borne by lessees, we cannot assure you that the number of leases that our customers terminate early will not increase in the future. This increase could happen due to any number of factors that are outside of our control, such as financial difficulty or a business downturn experienced by any of our customers. We may also elect to terminate leases with a customer and demand the immediate redelivery of our containers due to non-payment or other defaults, which would significantly reduce our revenue and adversely impact our business. The volatility of the residual value of containers upon expiration of their leases or at the time of their sale could adversely affect our operating results. Although our operating results primarily depend upon equipment leasing, profitability is also affected by the residual values (either for sale or re-leasing) of the containers upon expiration of their leases or at the time of their sale. These values, which can vary substantially, depend upon, among other factors: ● the age of our equipment; ● expenses associated with off-hire, storage, repair, repositioning and re-marketing of returned equipment; ● prevailing economic conditions; ● supply and demand for similar types of equipment; ● the current cost of comparable new equipment, which is partially dependent on raw material costs including steel; ● changes in lessees’ requirements; ● the availability of used equipment; ● rates of inflation; and ● the obsolescence of certain types of equipment in our fleet. 16 Most of these factors are outside of our control. Operating leases, under which we derived 62% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012, are subject to greater residual risk than direct finance leases because we own the containers at the expiration of an operating lease term. If the residual value of our assets during any period proves lower than anticipated, our operating results may be adversely affected. Furthermore, we base our decision to invest in new containers in part on our expectations of our ability to sell or re-lease existing assets. To the extent we fail to anticipate the degree to which we need to replace existing assets, we may not have sufficient assets to meet demand and would therefore forgo revenues. Changes in market price, availability or transportation costs of equipment manufactured in China could adversely affect our ability to maintain our supply of containers. Changes in the political, economic or financial conditions of China, which could increase the market price, availability or transportation costs of containers, could adversely affect our ability to maintain our supply of equipment. China is currently the largest container producing nation in the world. We currently purchase the vast majority of our containers from manufacturers in China. In the event that it were to become more expensive for us to procure containers in China or to transport these containers at a low cost from China to the locations where they are needed, because of changes in exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and Chinese Yuan, further consolidation among container suppliers, a shift in United States trade policy towards China, increased tariffs imposed by the United States or other governments, increased fuel costs, a significant downturn in the political, economic or financial conditions in China, or for any other reason, we would have to seek alternative sources of supply. We may not be able to make alternative arrangements quickly enough to meet our equipment needs, and any alternative arrangements may increase our costs. We depend on key personnel, and we may not be able to operate and grow our business effectively if we lose the services of any of our key personnel or are unable to attract qualified personnel in the future. The success of our business is heavily dependent on our ability to retain our current management and other key personnel and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. In particular, we are dependent upon the management and leadership of Joseph Kwok. Competition for senior management personnel is intense, and we may not be able to retain our personnel. The loss of key personnel could affect our ability to run our business effectively. Although we have entered into at will employment agreements with certain of our key personnel, these agreements do not ensure that our key personnel will continue in their present capacity with us for any particular period of time. Although Mr. Kwok also serves as the Chairman of Seacastle Inc., the parent company of our Initial Shareholder, and as the Chairman of Seacastle Holdings LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of our Initial Shareholder, he is required to devote 80% or more of his time and attention to our business. We do not have key man insurance for any of our current management or other key personnel. The loss of any key personnel requires the remaining key personnel to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. An inability to find a suitable replacement for any departing executive officer on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business. The international nature of the industry exposes us to numerous risks. Our ability to enforce lessees’ obligations under our leases for use of our containers will be subject to applicable law in the jurisdictions in which enforcement is sought or the country of domicile of the lessee. Our containers are manufactured primarily in China and are predominantly used on international waterways, and our lessees are domiciled in many different countries. It is not possible to predict, with any degree of certainty, the jurisdictions in which enforcement proceedings may be commenced. For example, repossession from defaulting lessees may be difficult and more expensive in jurisdictions whose laws do not confer the same security interests and rights to creditors and lessors as those in the United States and in jurisdictions where recovery of equipment from the defaulting lessee is more cumbersome. As a result, the relative success and expedience of enforcement proceedings with respect to the containers in various jurisdictions also cannot be predicted. As more of our business shifts to areas outside of the United States and Europe, such as China, it may become more difficult and expensive to enforce our rights and recover our containers. If the number and size of defaults increases in the future, and if a large percentage of the defaulted containers are located in countries with less developed legal systems, losses resulting from recovery payments and unrecovered containers could be large and could negatively impact our profitability. 17 We are also subject to risks inherent in conducting business across national boundaries, any one of which could adversely impact our business. These risks include: ● regional or local economic downturns; ● changes in governmental policy or regulation; ● restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of the country; ● potential liabilities relating to foreign withholding taxes; ● compliance with U.S. Treasury sanctions regulations restricting doing business with certain nations or specially designated nationals; ● compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; ● import and export duties and quotas; ● domestic and foreign customs and tariffs; ● military outbreaks or terrorist attacks; ● government instability; ● nationalization of foreign assets; ● government protectionism; ● compliance with export controls, including those of the U.S. Department of Commerce; ● compliance with import procedures and controls, including those of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security; ● potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; ● higher interest rates; ● requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; ● labor or other disruptions at key ports; ● difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; and ● restrictions on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in these jurisdictions. Any one of these factors could impair our current or future international operations and, as a result, harm our overall business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur costs and business disruptions associated with new security regulations regarding our containers. We are, and will likely continue to be, subject to regulations promulgated in various countries, including the United States, seeking to protect the integrity of international commerce and prevent the use of containers for international terrorism or other illicit activities. For example, the Container Security Initiative, the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism and Operation Safe Commerce are among the programs administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security that are designed to enhance security for cargo moving throughout the international transportation system by identifying existing vulnerabilities in the supply chain and developing improved methods for ensuring the security of containerized cargo entering and leaving the United States, including pre-screening containers that pose a risk at the port of departure prior to arrival at U.S. ports and/or the use of conveyance security devices. Moreover, the International Convention for Safe Containers, 1972 (CSC), as amended, adopted by the International Maritime Organization, applies to new and existing containers and seeks to maintain a high level of safety of human life in the transport and handling of containers by providing uniform international safety regulations. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of contents of our containers, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and, in some instances, the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against container operators and owners. Changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our lessees and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomic or impractical. 18 As these regulations develop and change, we may incur increased compliance costs due to the acquisition of new, compliant containers and/or the adaptation of existing containers to meet any new requirements imposed by such regulations. Additionally, certain companies are currently developing or may in the future develop products designed to enhance the security of containers transported in international commerce. Regardless of the existence of current or future government regulations mandating the safety standards of intermodal shipping containers, our competitors may adopt such products or our customers may require that we adopt such products in the conduct of our container leasing business. In responding to such market pressures, we may incur increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist attacks could negatively impact our operations and our profitability and may expose us to liability and reputational damage. Terrorist attacks may negatively affect our operations and your investment. Such attacks in the past have caused uncertainty in the world financial markets and economic instability in the United States and elsewhere, and further acts of terrorism, violence or war could similarly affect world financial markets and trade, as well as the industries in which we and our customers operate. In addition, terrorist attacks or hostilities may directly impact ports our containers come in and out of, depots, our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers and could impact our sales and our supply chain. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. A severe disruption to the worldwide ports system and flow of goods could result in a reduction in the level of international trade in which our containers are involved and lower demand for containers. The consequences of any terrorist attacks or hostilities are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our operations or your investment. It is also possible that our containers could be involved in a terrorist attack. Although our lease agreements require our lessees to indemnify us against all damages arising out of the use of our containers, and we carry insurance to potentially offset any costs in the event that our customer indemnifications prove to be insufficient, we may not be fully protected from liability arising from a terrorist attack which utilizes our containers. In addition, any terrorist attack involving any of our containers may cause reputational damage, or other losses, which could be catastrophic to our business. Environmental liability may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Like other companies, we are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those regulating discharges to air and water, health and safety and the use and disposal of hazardous substances. We and the third party equipment owners could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations in connection with our current or historical operations. Under some environmental laws in the United States and certain other countries, the owner of a leased container may be liable for environmental damage, cleanup or other costs in the event of a spill or discharge of material from a container without regard to the owner’s fault. While we maintain insurance and require lessees to indemnify us against certain losses, such insurance and indemnities may not cover or be sufficient to protect us and our third party equipment owners against losses arising from environmental damage. Moreover, environmental laws are subject to frequent change and have tended to become more stringent over time. For example, the refrigerant specified by virtually all reefer box operators and used in substantially all of our reefers is R134a (also known as HFC134a). R134a, like other refrigerants used before R134a became the industry standard, may, at some point, become due for replacement and phase-out. Market pressure or government regulation of refrigerants and synthetic insulation materials may require reefers using non-conforming substances to be retrofitted with refrigerants deemed to be less destructive to atmosphere ozone at substantial cost to us. Regulatory initiatives in the European Union and California to phase out R134a in automotive cooling systems may in the future increase pressure on the continued use of R134a in reefers. In addition, reefers that are not retrofitted may command lower prices in the market for used containers once we retire these containers from our fleet. 19 Increased concerns over climate change and current and future regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could have a material effect on our business. Regulatory initiatives at international, national and local levels to reduce the emission of greenhouse gasses could increase the cost of container shipping and the demand for our containers. Concerns over climate change could also favor competing local products over products shipped over long distances. In addition, the effects of climate change may produce more variable or severe weather events that can adversely affect marine shipping. Each of these events could increase our cost of operations or affect our profitability. These or other additional environmental laws and regulations may be adopted that could limit our ability to conduct business or increase the cost of our doing business, which may have a materially negative impact on our business, results of operation and financial condition. New regulations could diminish the resale value or useful lives of our containers, require us to retrofit our assets for continued use, or other operational changes or restrictions. For example, restrictions could be imposed on the use of certain woods in container flooring. Additionally, environmental-related laws and regulations may prohibit or restrict shipment of certain cargos that could impact the use of our containers. For example, the Lacey Act prohibits the importation of certain protected woods into the United States. Certain liens may arise on our equipment. Substantially all of our container assets currently are subject to liens relating to existing financing arrangements and, in the event of a default under any of those arrangements, the lenders thereunder would be permitted to take possession of or sell our container assets. In addition, depot operators, repairmen, transporters, vessel mortgagees and other parties may come into possession of our containers from time to time and have sums due to them from the lessees or sublessees of the containers. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by arresting a containership through foreclosure proceedings. In the event of nonpayment of those charges by the lessees or sublessees, we may be delayed in, or entirely barred from, repossessing the containers or be required to make payments or incur expenses to discharge such liens on the equipment. The lack of an international title registry for containers increases the risk of ownership disputes. Although the Bureau International des Containers registers and allocates a unique four letter prefix to every container in accordance with ISO standard 6346 (Freight container coding, identification and marking) there is no internationally recognized system of recordation or filing to evidence our title to containers nor is there an internationally recognized system for filing security interest in containers. While this has not historically been an issue, the lack of a title recordation system with respect to containers could result in disputes with lessees, end-users, or third parties, such as creditors of end-users, who may improperly claim ownership of the containers, especially in countries with less developed legal systems. Container investors may elect not to have us manage their containers, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. A percentage of our revenue is attributable to management fees earned on services related to the leasing of containers owned by container investors. Our ability to continue to retain and attract management contracts depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to lease and release containers on attractive lease terms, to maintain a high utilization rate for our owned and managed fleets, to efficiently manage the billing, collection, repositioning, maintenance and repair, storage and disposition of containers and the management fees that we charge. In the event container investors believe another container leasing company can better provide stable and attractive rates of return on their investment, we may lose management contract opportunities in the future, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 20 We could face litigation involving our management of containers for container investors. We manage containers for third-party container owners under management agreements that are negotiated with each container investor. We make no assurances to container investors that they will make any amount of profit on their investment or that our management activities will result in any particular level of income or return of their initial capital, although some of these agreements do contain provisions that permit owners to terminate them if certain performance metrics are not met during relevant time periods. As the number of containers that we manage for container investors increases, the possibility that we may be drawn into litigation and/or arbitration relating to these managed containers may also increase. Although our management agreements contain contractual protections and indemnities that are designed to limit our exposure to such litigation, such provisions may not be effective and we may be subject to a significant loss in a successful litigation by a container investor. Manufacturers of our equipment may be unwilling or unable to honor manufacturer warranties covering defects in our equipment. We obtain warranties from the manufacturers of our equipment. When defects in the containers occur, we work with the manufacturers to identify and rectify the problem. However, there is no assurance that manufacturers will be willing or able to honor warranty obligations. If defects are discovered in containers that are not covered by manufacturer warranties, we could be required to expend significant amounts of money to repair the containers and/or the useful life of the containers could be shortened and the value of the containers reduced, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. We have no control over third party contractors engaged by our lessees to perform maintenance and repair services on our containers. Leases of containers require the lessee to maintain such containers in accordance with specified repair and maintenance standards and to return such containers in conformity with such specified standards at the expiration or earlier termination of such lease. Many lessees utilize third party contractors to perform any repairs that are necessary to service and return such containers to conformity with such maintenance standards. Failure by such third party servicers to properly repair, service or use proper components, materials or refrigerants could cause the containers to fail to satisfy industry safety and/or operational standards, which could cause injury, which if not adequately covered by our existing insurance policies, could adversely affect our results of operations. We rely on our information technology systems to conduct our business. If these systems fail to adequately perform these functions, or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is highly dependent on equipment tracking and billing systems. We rely on such systems to track transactions, such as container pick-ups and drop-offs, repairs, and to bill our customers for the use of and damage to our equipment. We also use the information provided by these systems in our day-to-day business decisions in order to effectively manage our lease portfolio and improve customer service. The failure of this system to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and results of operation and cause our relationships with our customers to suffer. In addition, our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, power loss and computer systems failures and viruses. Any such interruption could negatively affect our business. Increases in the cost of or the lack of availability of insurance could increase our risk exposure and reduce our profitability. Our lessees and depots are required to maintain all risks physical damage insurance, comprehensive general liability insurance and to indemnify us against loss. We also maintain our own contingent liability insurance and off-hire physical damage insurance. Nevertheless, lessees’ and depots’ insurance or indemnities and our insurance may not fully protect us. The cost of such insurance may increase or become prohibitively expensive for us and our customers, and such insurance may not continue to be available. Other types of industry insurance that we have maintained from time to time based on our evaluation of risk, such as default insurance providing coverage for the cost to recover our containers due to a customer’s insolvency, bankruptcy or default may not be available, which could increase our risk. 21 Our future business prospects could be adversely affected by consolidation within the container shipping industry. We primarily lease containers to shipping lines. Over the last several years, there have been several large shipping line acquisitions that have resulted in some consolidation within the container shipping industry, including among some of our customers. This consolidation has reduced the number of large shipping lines and also increased the concentration of business in a smaller number of larger customers. Our future business prospects could be adversely affected if there is a continued reduction in the number of shipping lines in the world. Due to concentration risk and resulting impact on credit risk, we might decide to limit the amount of business exposure we have with any single customer if the exposure were deemed unacceptable, which could negatively impact the volume of equipment we lease and the revenues we would otherwise earn if we had leased assets despite the concentration risk or had the previously separate customers not combined. Our strategy to pursue acquisition opportunities may subject us to considerable business and financial risk, and unforeseen integration obstacles or risks. In order to grow our business, we expect to employ various strategies, including consummating strategic and complementary acquisitions and joint ventures from time to time. We may not be successful in identifying acquisition opportunities, assessing the value, strengths and weaknesses of these opportunities and consummating acquisitions on acceptable terms. Furthermore, suitable acquisition opportunities may not be made available or known to us. Unanticipated issues may arise in the implementation of these contemplated strategies, which could impair our ability to expand our business as expected. For example: ● then-favorable conditions in the equipment leasing and shipping markets, including the rate of world trade and economic growth, could deteriorate; ● equipment prices and lease rates could decrease as a result of a variety of factors, including a decrease in worldwide steel prices; ● the financial condition of our third party depot operators and other business partners may deteriorate; ● turmoil in, or tightening of the credit markets may limit our ability to obtain debt financing for acquisitions; ● we may be unable to obtain financing through additional debt facilities or by issuing additional debt or equity, in each case on terms acceptable to us; ● our customers could decide to buy rather than lease a larger percentage of the containers they operate; and ● we may not be able to execute strategic acquisitions or to integrate such acquired assets successfully into our business. Any of the above risks could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations and could cause us to abandon some or all of our growth strategies. Furthermore, any acquisitions or joint ventures may expose us to particular business and financial risks that include, but are not limited to: ● diverting management’s attention; 22 ● incurring additional indebtedness and assuming liabilities; ● incurring significant additional capital expenditures, transaction and operating expenses and non-recurring acquisition-related charges; ● experiencing an adverse impact on our earnings from the amortization or write-off of acquired goodwill and other intangible assets; ● failing to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; ● acquiring businesses with which we are not familiar; ● entering new markets with which we are not familiar; ● increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations; and ● failing to retain key personnel, suppliers and customers of the acquired businesses. We may not be able to successfully manage acquired businesses or increase our cash flow from these operations. If we are unable to successfully implement our acquisition strategy or address the risks associated with acquisitions, or if we encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications or delays frequently encountered in connection with the integration of acquired entities and the expansion of operations, our growth and ability to compete may be impaired, we may fail to achieve acquisition synergies, and we may be required to focus resources on integration of operations rather than on other profitable areas. We anticipate that we may finance acquisitions through cash provided by operating activities, borrowings under our credit facilities and other indebtedness, which would reduce our cash available for other purposes, including the repayment of indebtedness and payment of dividends. If we are unable to enter into interest rate swaps on reasonable commercial terms or if a counterparty under our interest rate swap agreements defaults, our exposure associated with our variable rate debt could increase. We have typically funded a significant portion of the purchase price of new containers through borrowings under our revolving credit facility and our secured debt facilities. We intend to use borrowings under our revolving credit facility and our secured debt facility for such funding purposes in the future. The amounts outstanding under these facilities are subject to variable interest rates. We have entered into various interest rate swap agreements to mitigate our exposure associated with this variable rate debt. There can be no assurance that these interest rate swaps will be available in the future, or if available, will be available on terms satisfactory to us. If we are unable to obtain such interest rate swaps or if a counterparty under our interest rate swap agreements defaults, our exposure associated with our variable rate debt could increase. Storage space for containers may become limited, increasing depot costs for the storage of containers. Land in and around many port areas is limited, and nearby depot space could become difficult to find and more costly with limited space and fewer depots in the area. In addition, local communities in port areas may impose regulations that prohibit the storage of containers near their communities, further limiting the availability of storage facilities, and increasing storage, repair costs, and transportation charges relating to the use of our containers. Additionally, depots in prime locations may become filled to capacity based on market conditions, and may refuse additional redeliveries due to space restraints. This could require us to enter into higher cost storage agreements with depot operators in order to accommodate our customers’ redelivery requirements, and could result in increased costs and expenses for us. 23 Because we are a recently formed company with a limited separate operating history, our historical financial and operating data may not be representative of our future results. We are a recently incorporated company with limited separate operating history. Our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows reflected in our consolidated financial statements may not be indicative of the results we would have achieved had we operated as a stand-alone or public entity for all periods presented. Our loan agreements contain restrictive covenants that may limit our liquidity and corporate activities. Our loan agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to, among other things: ● incur additional indebtedness on satisfactory terms or at all; ● incur liens on our assets; ● sell capital stock of our subsidiaries; ● make investments; ● engage in amalgamations, mergers or acquisitions; ● pay dividends (following an event of default or our breach of a covenant or in the event of CLI not maintaining certain net worth); ● enter into the sale and leaseback of our containers; ● make capital expenditures; ● compete effectively to the extent our competitors are subject to less onerous financial restrictions; and ● sell our containers. We are required to maintain certain financial ratios. If we are unable to maintain these ratios, our creditors could accelerate our debt, which could materially harm our financial condition and business. Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in certain corporate actions. Our lenders’ interests may be different from ours, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders’ permission when needed. This restriction may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest. Our inability to service our debt obligations or to obtain additional financing as needed would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a significant amount debt outstanding. As of December 31, 2012, we had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $1.4 billion with related interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2012 of approximately $68.7 million. Our ability to meet our debt obligations will depend upon, among other things, our financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and by financial, business, regulatory and other factors affecting our operations. Many of these factors are beyond our control. If our cash flow is insufficient to service our current and future indebtedness and to meet our other obligations and commitments, or if we are unable to obtain new financing on a timely basis, we will be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments, capital expenditures, the payment of dividends or the implementation of our other strategies, refinancing or restructuring our debt obligations, selling intermodal assets, seeking to raise additional debt or equity capital or seeking bankruptcy protection. However, we may not be able to effect any of these remedies or alternatives on a timely basis, on satisfactory terms or at all and, in any event, we would need to do so in a manner consistent with the Amalgamation Agreement. 24 We intend to incur substantial additional debt and may issue substantial additional equity in order to expand our business and pay dividends. We plan to expand our business substantially by continuing to acquire containers each year. We intend to fund a portion of this growth with additional borrowings from time to time, which will increase our indebtedness and interest expense. We may also fund a portion of this growth with sales of additional equity securities, and such sales may be significant, which could have a significant dilutive effect on our shareholders. There is no assurance that we will continue to be able to access the debt and equity markets to the extent necessary to fund our plans, or that our cash flow will increase sufficiently to enable us to cover our increased borrowing costs and dividend payments. If our cash flow is insufficient to meet our needs, we may need to restrict our growth or dividend payments, or both, and we could face an increased risk of default. Our ability to fund our plans will depend on market conditions in our industry and in the financial markets as well as on our operating performance, each of which, to a significant extent, is out of our control. The recent downturn in the world’s major economies, constraints in the credit markets and turbulence in the financial markets generally underscore the uncertainty concerning our ability to achieve our plans for growth and dividend payments. In addition, our ability to draw funds under our existing credit facility is subject to our compliance with various covenants and requirements under the facility. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure If the ownership of our common shares continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent you and other minority shareholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest. As of February 15, 2013, the Initial Shareholder, an entity primarily owned by certain private equity funds managed by an affiliate of Fortress, beneficially owns approximately 41.8% of our common shares. As a result, the Initial Shareholder may be able to control voting over corporate matters and transactions, including: the election of directors; amalgamations, consolidations or acquisitions; the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other decisions affecting our capital structure; the amendment of our memorandum of association and our bye-laws, and our winding up and dissolution. This concentration of ownership may delay, deter or prevent acts that would be favored by our other shareholders. The interests of the Initial Shareholder may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of our other shareholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of us. Also, the Initial Shareholder may seek to cause us to take courses of action that, in its judgment, could enhance its investment in us, but which might involve risks to our other shareholders or adversely affect us or our other shareholders. As a result, the market price of our common shares could decline or shareholders might not receive a premium over the then-current market price of our common shares upon a change in control. In addition, this concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common shares because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning shares in a company with significant shareholders. We are a holding company with no operations and rely on our operating subsidiaries to provide us with funds necessary to meet our financial obligations and to pay dividends. We are a holding company with no material direct operations. Our principal assets are the equity interests we directly or indirectly hold in our operating subsidiaries, which own our operating assets. As a result, we are dependent on loans, dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations and to pay dividends on our common shares. Our subsidiaries are legally distinct from us and may be prohibited or restricted from paying dividends or otherwise making funds available to us under certain conditions. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to, or our board may exercise its discretion not to, pay dividends. We are a Bermuda exempted company, and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us or our directors and executive officers. We are a Bermuda exempted company and, as such, the rights of holders of our common shares will be governed by Bermuda law and our memorandum of association and bye-laws. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. A substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process on those persons in the United States or to enforce in the United States judgments obtained in U.S. courts against us or those persons based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. Uncertainty exists as to whether courts in Bermuda will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, including the United States, against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. 25 Our bye-laws restrict shareholders from bringing legal action against our officers and directors. Our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. Certain provisions of the Shareholders Agreement and our bye-laws could hinder, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common shares. Certain provisions of the shareholders agreement (“the Shareholders Agreement”) which we entered into with the Initial Shareholder prior to the completion of our IPO, and our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors or the Initial Shareholder. These provisions provide for: ● a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; ● provisions in our bye-laws regarding the election of directors, classes of directors, the term of office of directors, amalgamations and the bye-law governing the amendment of the foregoing bye-laws to be rescinded, altered or amended only upon approval by a resolution of the directors and by a resolution of our shareholders, including the affirmative votes of at least 66% of the votes attaching to all shares in issue entitling the holder to vote on such resolution (provided, however, that for so long as the Initial Shareholder and certain other affiliates of Fortress and permitted transferees (referred to collectively, as the “Fortress Shareholders”) beneficially own at least 25% of our issued and outstanding common shares, no such bye-law shall be rescinded, altered or amended and no new bye-law shall be made which would have the effect of rescinding, altering or amending or would be inconsistent with the purpose and intent of the provisions of such bye-laws, until the same has been approved by a resolution of the directors and by a resolution of our shareholders, including the affirmative votes of at least a majority of all votes attaching to all shares in issue entitling the holder to vote on such resolution); ● provisions in our bye-laws dealing with the removal of directors, filling vacancies on the board, the right of shareholders to call special meetings, shareholder action by resolution in writing, corporate opportunity to be rescinded, altered or amended only upon approval by a resolution of the directors and by a resolution of our shareholders, including the affirmative votes of at least 80% of the votes attaching to all shares in issue entitling the holder to vote on such resolution; ● removal of directors only for cause and only with the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the votes attaching to all shares in issue entitling the holder to vote on such resolution (provided, however, that for so long as the Fortress Shareholders beneficially own at least 40% of our issued and outstanding common shares, directors may be removed with or without cause with the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes attaching to all shares in issue entitling the holder to vote on such resolution); ● our board of directors to determine the powers, preferences and rights of our preference shares and to issue such preference shares without shareholder approval; ● advance notice requirements by shareholders for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; 26 ● the Shareholders Agreement will provide certain rights to the Fortress Shareholders with respect to the designation of directors for nomination and election to our board of directors, including the ability to appoint a majority of the members of our board of directors for so long as the Fortress Shareholders continue to hold at least 40% of our issued and outstanding common shares.; ● no provision in our bye-laws for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which means that the holders of a majority of the issued and outstanding common shares can elect all the directors standing for election; and ● our bye-laws only permit action by our shareholders outside a meeting by unanimous written consent, provided, however, that for so long as the Fortress Shareholders beneficially own at least 25% of our issued and outstanding common shares, our shareholders may act without a meeting by written consent of a majority of our shareholders, such majority being that majority of our shareholders who at the date of the notice of any written consent represent such majority of votes as would be required if the resolution had been voted on at a meeting of the shareholders. In addition, these provisions may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our Initial Shareholder, our management and/or our board of directors. Public shareholders who might desire to participate in these types of transactions may not have an opportunity to do so, even if the transaction is considered favorable to shareholders. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public shareholders to benefit from a change in control or change our management and board of directors and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common shares and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. Certain of our shareholders have the right to engage or invest in the same or similar businesses as us. The Fortress Shareholders have other investments and business activities in addition to their ownership of us. Under our bye-laws, the Fortress Shareholders have the right, and have no duty to abstain from exercising such right, to engage or invest in the same or similar businesses as us, do business with any of our clients, customers, lessors or vendors or employ or otherwise engage any of our officers, directors or employees. In particular, Joseph Kwok, our Chief Executive Officer, served as Chief Executive Officer of Seacastle Inc., the parent company of our Initial Shareholder, until our incorporation in March 2010, and continues to serve as Chairman of Seacastle Inc. and Seacastle Holdings LLC. Mr. Kwok will receive additional compensation from a subsidiary of Seacastle Holdings LLC. Two of our directors are individuals affiliated with Fortress, one of whom also serves on the board of directors of Seacastle Inc. Seacastle Inc. is a holding company that owns businesses that are engaged in the business of acquiring and leasing chassis and containerships, two other types of intermodal equipment that are used in global containerized cargo trade. Mr. Kwok currently holds restricted common shares in Seacastle Inc. If the Fortress Shareholders or any of their officers, directors or employees acquire knowledge of a potential transaction that could be a corporate opportunity, they have no duty, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to offer such corporate opportunity to us, our shareholders or our affiliates. In the event that any of our directors and officers who is also a director, officer or employee of any of the Fortress Shareholders acquires knowledge of a corporate opportunity or is offered a corporate opportunity, provided that this knowledge was not acquired solely in such person’s capacity as a director or officer of SeaCube and such person acts in good faith, then to the fullest extent permitted by law such person is deemed to have fully satisfied such person’s duties owed to us and is not liable to us, if the Fortress Shareholder pursues or acquires the corporate opportunity or if the Fortress Shareholder does not present the corporate opportunity to us. Risks Related to the Company’s Common Stock Future offerings of debt or equity securities by us may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. In the future, we may attempt to obtain financing or to further increase our capital resources by issuing common shares or additional equity securities or offering debt securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes or preference shares. Issuing additional common shares or other equity offerings may dilute the economic and voting rights of our existing shareholders or reduce the market price of our common shares, or both. Upon liquidation, holders of such debt securities and preferred shares, if issued, and lenders with respect to other borrowings, would receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common shares. Preferred shares, if issued, could have a preference with respect to liquidating distributions or a preference with respect to dividend payments that could limit our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common shares. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our common shares bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common shares and diluting their share holdings in us. 27 The market price of our common shares could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public markets. As of February 15, 2013, there were 20,413,359 common shares issued and outstanding. All of our issued and outstanding common shares will be freely transferable, except for approximately 45.9% of our issued and outstanding common shares held by the Initial Shareholder and members of our management, directors and employees, which can be resold into the public markets in the future in accordance with the requirements of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). Pursuant to our Shareholders Agreement, the Initial Shareholder and certain of its affiliates and permitted third-party transferees will have the right, in certain circumstances, to require us to register their 8,525,000 common shares that they own for sale into the public markets. Upon the effectiveness of such a registration statement, all shares covered by the registration statement will be freely transferable. On October 28, 2010, we filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register an aggregate of 1,000,000 common shares reserved for issuance under our incentive plans. We may increase the number of shares registered for this purpose at any time. Subject to any restrictions imposed on the shares and options granted under our incentive plans, shares registered under the registration statement on Form S-8 will be available for sale into the public markets. The sale of, or a report of the possible sale of, any substantial portion of these shares may negatively impact the market price of our shares. A decline in the price of our common shares might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional common shares or other equity securities. The future issuance of additional common shares in connection with our incentive plans, acquisitions or otherwise will dilute all other shareholdings. As of February 15, 2013, we will have an aggregate of 378,972,188 common shares authorized but unissued and not reserved for issuance under our incentive plans. We may issue all of these common shares without any action or approval by our shareholders, subject to certain exceptions. We also intend to continue to actively pursue acquisitions of containers and container businesses and may issue common shares in connection with these acquisitions. Any common shares issued in connection with our incentive plans, our acquisitions, the exercise of outstanding share options or otherwise would dilute the percentage ownership held by current investors. We may not be able to pay or maintain dividends at their current level and the failure to pay or maintain dividends may adversely affect our share price. Our ability to maintain dividends at current levels will depend on, among other things, our cash flows, our cash requirements, our financial condition, cash available under our existing credit facilities, contractual restrictions binding on us, legal restrictions on the payment of dividends, including a statutory dividend test and other limitations under Bermuda law, and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Because we intend to use funds available under our existing credit facilities from time to time as an efficient source to pay a portion of any future dividends, our ability to pay dividends will depend, in part, on our ability to maintain credit facilities or other external sources of financing with favorable terms. In addition, our loan agreements contain certain restrictions on our ability to make dividend payments if an event of default under a loan agreement has occurred and is continuing, or would result therefrom, or upon the occurrence of specified amortization events. There can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash from continuing operations or external sources of financing in the future, or have sufficient surplus or net profits, as the case may be, under the laws of Bermuda or jurisdictions where our subsidiaries are located, to pay dividends on our common shares. Our dividend policy is based upon our directors’ current assessment of our business and the environment in which we operate and that assessment could change based on a number of factors, including competitive developments (which could, for example, increase our need for capital expenditures), market conditions or new growth opportunities. Our board of directors may, in its discretion, amend or repeal this dividend policy to decrease the level of dividends or entirely discontinue the payment of dividends. The reduction or elimination of declaring and paying dividends may negatively affect the market price of our common shares. 28 Under Bermuda law a company may not declare or pay dividends if there are reasonable grounds for believing that: (i) the company is, or would after the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities as they become due; or (ii) that the realizable value of its assets would thereby be less than the sum of its liabilities and its issued share capital (par value) and share premium accounts (share premium being the amount of consideration paid for the subscription of shares in excess of the par value of those shares). As a result, in future years, if the realizable value of our assets decreases, our ability to pay dividends may require our shareholders to approve resolutions reducing our share premium account by transferring an amount to our contributed surplus account. Pursuant to the terms of the Amalgamation Agreement, we will not pay a dividend with respect to the fourth quarter of 2012. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. As a public company, we are required to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”). If we do not maintain compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or if we or our auditors discover a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, our share price could decline, our reputation could be significantly harmed and our ability to raise capital could be impaired. Risks Related to Taxation We expect to be a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) and may be a controlled foreign corporation (“CFC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We expect to be treated as a PFIC and may be a CFC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If you are a U.S. person and do not make certain elections with respect to your investment, unless we are a CFC and you own 10% of our voting shares, you would be subject to special deferred tax and interest charges with respect to certain distributions on our common shares, any gain realized on a disposition of our common shares and certain other events. The effect of these deferred tax and interest charges could be materially adverse to you. Alternatively, if you are such a shareholder and make one of such elections, or if we are a CFC and you own 10% or more of our voting shares, you will not be subject to those charges, but could recognize taxable income in a taxable year with respect to our common shares in excess of any distributions that we make to you in that year, thus giving rise to so-called “phantom income” and to a potential out-of-pocket tax liability. Distributions made to a U.S. person that is an individual will not be eligible for taxation at reduced tax rates generally applicable to dividends paid by certain United States corporations and “qualified foreign corporations” on or prior to December 31, 2012. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause individuals to perceive investment in our shares to be relatively less attractive than investment in the shares of other corporations, which could adversely affect the value of our shares. We may become subject to unanticipated tax liabilities that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be subject to income, withholding or other taxes in other jurisdictions by reason of our activities and operations, where our containers are used, or where the lessees of our containers (or others in possession of our containers) are located. It is also possible that taxing authorities in any such jurisdictions could assert that we are subject to greater taxation than we currently anticipate. A portion of our income is treated as effectively connected with our conduct of a trade or business within the U.S., and is accordingly subject to U.S. federal income tax. It is possible that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service could assert that a greater portion of our income is effectively connected income that should be subject to U.S. federal income tax. If we become subject to a significant amount of unanticipated tax liabilities, our business would be adversely affected and decreased earnings would be available for distribution to our shareholders. 29 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS NONE 