Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included and incorporated by reference in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The United States economy remains weak and unemployment levels are high. A prolonged economic downturn, especially one affecting our geographic market area, will adversely affect our business and financial results. The United States experienced a severe economic recession in 2008 and 2009. While the economy has shown signs of improvement in certain markets, the rate of growth has been slow and unemployment remains at very high levels. Loan portfolio quality has deteriorated at many financial institutions reflecting, in part, the weak U.S. economy and high unemployment. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. The real estate downturn also has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing and increased delinquencies in construction, residential and commercial mortgage loans for many lenders. Continued negative developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the market for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Moreover, continued declines in the stock market in general, or stock values of financial institutions and their holding companies specifically, could adversely affect our stock performance. If economic conditions deteriorate in the State of Texas, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted as borrowers’ ability to repay loans declines and the value of the collateral securing loans decreases. Substantially all of our loans are located in the State of Texas. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including decreases in real estate values, changes in interest rates which may cause a decrease in interest rate spreads, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and other significant external events. Decreases in real estate values in the State of Texas could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our mortgage loans. As a result, the market value of the real estate underlying the loans may not, at any given time, be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding principal amount of the loans. In the event that we are required to foreclose on a property securing a mortgage loan, we may not recover funds in an amount equal to the remaining loan balance. Consequently, we would sustain loan losses and potentially incur a higher provision for loan loss expense, which would have an adverse impact on earnings. In addition, adverse changes in the Texas economy may have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would also have an adverse impact on earnings. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our percentage of commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans. Over the last several years, we have increased our commercial lending in order to diversify our loan mix and improve the yield on our assets. At December 31, 2011, our loan portfolio included $655.9 million of commercial real estate loans and commercial and industrial loans, or 53.4% of total loans (excluding loans held for sale), compared to $264.4 million, or 28.9% of total loans, at December 31, 2007. The credit risk related to these types of loans is considered to be greater than the risk related to one- to four-family residential loans because the repayment of commercial real estate loans and commercial and industrial loans typically is dependent on the successful operation and income stream of the borrowers’ business and the real estate securing the loans as collateral, which can be significantly affected by economic conditions. Additionally, commercial loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans. If loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled and the value of the real estate has been significantly impaired, then we may not be able to recover the full contractual amount of principal and interest that we anticipated at the time we originated the loan, which could require us to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 31 Table of Contents Several of our borrowers have more than one commercial real estate loan outstanding with us. Our five largest lending relationships (excluding Warehouse Purchase Program relationships) totaled $101.7 million in the aggregate or 8.3% of our loan portfolio (excluding loans held for sale) at December 31, 2011. The loans making up these relationships were with commercial borrowers. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Finally, if we foreclose on a commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral, if any, typically is longer than for one- to four-family residential property because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Since we plan to continue to increase our originations of these loans, it may be necessary to increase the level of our allowance for loan losses due to the increased risk characteristics associated with these types of loans. Any increase to our allowance for loan losses would adversely affect our earnings. Any delinquent payments or the failure to repay these loans would hurt our earnings. Warehouse Purchase Program balances can fluctuate widely, materially impacting our earnings. We have a high lending concentration in the Warehouse Purchase Program, which made up $800.9 million, or 38.8%, of our gross loans at December 31, 2011. Because Warehouse Purchase Program balances are contingent upon mortgage lending activity, changes in the residential real estate market nationwide can lead to wide fluctuations of balances in this product, materially impacting both interest and non-interest income. Additionally, Warehouse Purchase Program period-end balances are generally higher than the average balance during the period due to increased mortgage activity that occurs at the end of a month. The average daily balance of this portfolio was $705.3 million for the fourth quarter of 2011. Our consumer loan portfolio possesses increased risk. Our consumer loans accounted for approximately $51.2 million, or 4.2%, of our total loan portfolio (excluding loans held for sale) as of December 31, 2011, of which $33.0 million consisted of automobile loans. Generally, we consider these types of loans to involve a higher degree of risk compared to first mortgage loans on one- to four-family, owner-occupied residential properties, particularly in the case of loans that are secured by rapidly depreciable assets, such as automobiles. In these cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance. As a result of this portfolio of consumer loans, it may become necessary to increase the level of our provision for loan losses, which could hurt our profits. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property. As of December 31, 2011, residential mortgage loans, including home equity loans and lines of credit, totaled $520.9 million, or 42.4%, of total loans (excluding loans held for sale). This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that may significantly affect the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values resulting from the downturn in local housing markets has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing many of our loans and has increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. Continued declines in both the volume of real estate sales and sales prices, coupled with high levels and increases in unemployment, may result in higher loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in demand for our products and services, or a decrease in our deposits. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, which would adversely affect our capital and liquidity and damage our financial condition and business operations. These declines may have a greater impact on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of financial institutions that have more diversified loan portfolios. We are subject to credit risks in connection with the concentration of adjustable rate loans in our portfolio. Approximately 37.6% of our loan portfolio (excluding loans held for sale) is adjustable rate loans. Borrowers with adjustable rate loans are exposed to increased monthly payments when the related interest rate adjusts upward under the terms of the loan from the initial fixed to the rate computed in accordance with the applicable index and margin. Any rise in prevailing market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable rate loans, increasing the possibility of default. Borrowers seeking to avoid these increased monthly payments by refinancing their loans may no longer be able to find available replacement loans at comparably lower interest rates. In addition, a decline in housing prices may leave borrowers with insufficient equity in their homes to permit them to refinance. Borrowers who intend to sell their homes on or before the expiration of the fixed rate period on their mortgage loans may also find that they cannot sell their properties for an amount equal to or greater than the unpaid principal balance of their loans. These events, alone or in combination, may contribute to higher delinquency rates and negatively impact our earnings. 32 Table of Contents If our non-performing assets increase, our earnings will suffer. At December 31, 2011, our non-performing assets (which consist of non-accrual loans, loans 90 days or more delinquent and foreclosed real estate assets) totaled $25.4 million, which was an increase of $5.1 million, or 25.0%, over non-performing assets at December 31, 2010. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or real estate owned. We must reserve for estimated credit losses, which are established through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses, and from time to time, if appropriate, write down the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our other real estate owned. Further, the resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from the overall supervision of our operations and other income-producing activities. Finally, if our estimate of the allowance for loan losses is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance accordingly. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. Management recognizes that significant new growth in loan portfolios, new loan products and the refinancing of existing loans can result in portfolios comprised of unseasoned loans that may not perform in a historical or projected manner. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, resulting in additions to our allowance. Additions to our allowance decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses was 1.42% of gross loans and 75.71% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2011, compared to 1.34% of gross loans and 84.22% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2010. Our emphasis on originating commercial and one- to four- family real estate and commercial and industrial loans is one of the more significant factors in evaluating the allowance for loan losses. As we continue to increase our originations of these loans, increased provisions for loan losses may be necessary, which would decrease our earnings. Our banking regulators and external auditor periodically review our allowance for loan losses. These entities may require us to recognize additions to the allowance for loan losses based on their judgments about information available to them at the time of their review. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these authorities may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Passage of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act will increase our operational and compliance costs. The Dodd-Frank Act has significantly changed, and will continue to significantly change, the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. The Company does not currently have assets in excess of $10 billion, but it may at some point in the future. 33 Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Act requires minimum leverage (Tier 1) and risk-based capital requirements for bank holding companies that are no less stringent than those applicable to banks, which will limit our ability to borrow at the holding company level and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in the Bank, and will exclude certain instruments that previously have been eligible for inclusion by bank holding companies as Tier 1 capital, such as trust preferred securities. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC deposit insurance assessments. Assessments will now be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution, rather than deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250 thousand per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2008, and non-interest-bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The legislation also increases the required minimum reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund, from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits, and directs the FDIC to offset the effects of increased assessments on depository institutions with less than $10 billion in assets. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and our income. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, the FRB, and the FDIC. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on a bank’s operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Our business is highly regulated; therefore, the laws and applicable regulations are subject to frequent change. Any change in these regulations and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, new regulations or legislation or additional deposit insurance premiums, could have a material impact on our operations. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, or changes in policy, affecting lending and funding practices, and interest rate risk management and liquidity standards. Moreover, bank regulatory agencies have been active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, and have issued many formal enforcement orders requiring capital ratios in excess of regulatory requirements. Bank regulatory agencies, such as the OCC and the FDIC, govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors, and not for the protection or benefit of potential investors. In addition, new laws and regulations may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws and regulations may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, the fees we can charge and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. When interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice or mature more quickly than interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would tend to result in a decrease in net interest income. Changes in interest rates may also affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased levels of prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, shortening their average life, as borrowers refinance to reduce their borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on prepaying loans and securities. Increases in interest rates may extend the average life of fixed-rate assets, which would limit the funds we have available to reinvest in higher yielding alternatives, and may result in customers withdrawing certificates of deposit early so long as the early withdrawal penalty is less than the interest they could receive as a result of the higher interest rates. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. 34 Table of Contents Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our interest-earning available-for-sale securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2011, the fair value of our portfolio of available-for-sale securities totaled $433.7 million. Gross unrealized gains on these securities totaled $2.9 million, while gross unrealized losses on these securities totaled $769,000, resulting in a net unrealized gain of $2.1 million at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2011, the Company’s internal asset/liability software simulation model indicated that our economic value of equity would decrease by 3.4% if there was an instantaneous, parallel, and sustained 200 basis point increase in market interest rates. See the “Asset/Liability Management” discussion under Item 7A of this Form 10-K. Additionally, approximately 37.6% or our loan portfolio (excluding loans held for sale) is adjustable-rate loans. Any rise in the associated market index interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable rate mortgage loans, increasing the possibility of default. The Company had $834.3 million of loans held for sale at December 31, 2011, of which $800.9 million were Warehouse Purchase Program loans purchased for sale under our standard loan participation agreement. The interest rates on Warehouse Purchase Program facilities adjust daily with changes to the 30 day LIBOR, subject to the impact of any applicable floor rate, as discussed below. These facilities have an interest rate that is based on the 30 day LIBOR, with a floor ranging from 1.50% to 2.00% per annum, plus a margin rate. The margin rate, which is an agreed upon value stated in the pricing schedule of each Warehouse Purchase Program client, typically ranged between 1.75% and 2.75% at December 31, 2011. The lowest total rate for any facility in the Warehouse Purchase Program at December 31, 2011, was 3.75%. During 2011, these rates were at their floors and established loan rate spreads which were higher than the contractual rate spreads would have otherwise been. As the 30 day LIBOR interest rate increases, many of these interest rate floors will not adjust until the 30 day LIBOR exceeds 1.50%. At that time, the interest rates on the facilities will adjust according to their normal contractual interest rate spread terms. Our strategies to modify our interest rate risk profile may be difficult to implement. Our asset/liability management strategies are designed to manage and decrease our interest rate risk sensitivity. One such strategy is increasing the amount of adjustable rate and/or short-term assets. The Company offers adjustable rate loan products as a means to achieve this strategy. However, comparatively low fixed interest rates would generally create a decrease in borrower demand for adjustable rate assets. Additionally, there is no guarantee that adjustable rate assets obtained will not prepay earlier than anticipated. At December 31, 2011, 37.6% of our loan portfolio (excluding loans held for sale) consisted of adjustable rate loans, compared to 31.6% at December 31, 2010. We also manage our liabilities to mitigate our interest rate risk sensitivity. For example, customer demand is often primarily for short-term maturity certificates of deposit. Using short-term liabilities to fund long-term fixed rate assets will increase the interest rate sensitivity of any financial institution. In this example, we may utilize FHLB advances to mitigate the impact of customer demand by lengthening the maturities of these advances or may enter into longer term repurchase agreements, depending on liquidity or investment opportunities. FHLB advances and repurchase agreements are entered into as liquidity is needed or to fund assets that provide for a spread considered sufficient by management. If we are unable to originate adjustable rate assets at favorable rates or fund fixed rate loan originations or securities purchases with comparative long-term advances or structured borrowings, we may have difficulty executing this asset/liability management strategy and/or it may result in a reduction in profitability. 35 Table of Contents Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. We rely on a number of different sources in order to meet our potential liquidity demands. Our primary sources of liquidity are increases in deposit accounts, cash flows from loan payments and our securities portfolio. Borrowings also provide us with a source of funds to meet liquidity demands. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically, or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include adverse regulatory action against us or a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations, or deterioration in credit markets. Additionally, at December 31, 2011, collateralized public funds time deposits totaled $251.4 million, representing 50.9% of our time deposits and 12.8% of our total deposits. Collateralized public funds are bank deposits of state and local municipalities. These deposits are required to be secured by certain investment grade securities to ensure repayment, which on the one hand tends to reduce our contingent liquidity risk by making these funds somewhat less credit sensitive, but on the other hand reduces standby liquidity by restricting the potential liquidity of the pledged collateral. Although these funds historically have been a relatively stable source of funds for us, availability depends on the individual municipality’s fiscal policies and cash flow needs. Our securities portfolio may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in market value and interest rates, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Our securities portfolio may be impacted by fluctuations in market value, potentially reducing accumulated other comprehensive income and/or earnings. Fluctuations in market value may be caused by changes in market interest rates, lower market prices for securities and limited investor demand. Our securities portfolio is evaluated for other-than-temporary impairment on at least a quarterly basis. If this evaluation shows impairment to the actual or projected cash flows associated with one or more securities, a potential loss to earnings may occur. Changes in interest rates can also have an adverse effect on our financial condition, as our available-for-sale securities are reported at their estimated fair value, and therefore are impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. We increase or decrease our shareholders’ equity by the amount of change in the estimated fair value of the available-for-sale securities, net of taxes. At December 31, 2011, the net unrealized gain on securities available-for-sale was $2.1 million, a $1.6 million decrease from the December 31, 2010 net unrealized gains on securities available for sale of $3.7 million. Higher FDIC insurance premiums and special assessments will affect our earnings. In accordance with the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC adopted a new deposit insurance premium assessment system which was effective April 1, 2011, in which assessments are calculated based on total assets minus Tier 1 capital, not just deposits, at assessment rates that are intended to keep current levels of assessments substantially the same. To the extent we increase our non-deposit liabilities or are determined to bear certain additional risk to the deposit insurance fund, future increases in our assessment rate or levels or any special assessments would decrease our earnings. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. We compete with numerous commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have, have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may limit our ability to increase our interest earning assets. 36 Table of Contents System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 