Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this Annual Report in evaluating our business and our prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and the related notes. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of net losses, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have a history of significant net losses and a limited history commercializing our molecular diagnostic products. We obtained FDA clearance for our first generation molecular diagnostic system in 2006, and commenced a limited marketing effort for this system. We commenced offering our XT-8 system and our Warfarin Sensitivity Test in July 2008. We commenced offering our Cystic Fibrosis Genotyping Test in July 2009 and our Thrombophilia Risk Test in April 2010. Our Respiratory Viral Panel Test is currently labeled for RUO and was submitted to the FDA for 510(k) clearance in December 2011. Our net losses were approximately $24.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, $18.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and $20.0 million in 2009. At December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $168.5 million. We will continue to incur significant expenses for the foreseeable future in connection with our sales and marketing, research and development and regulatory activities and maintaining our existing, obtaining additional intellectual property rights and investing in corporate infrastructure. We cannot provide you any assurance that we will ever achieve profitability and, even if we achieve profitability, that we will be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Further, because of our limited commercialization history and because the market for molecular diagnostic products is relatively new and rapidly evolving, we have limited insight into the trends that may emerge and affect our business. We may make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business trends, which could harm our business and financial condition. We will need to raise additional funds in the future, and such funds may not be available on a timely basis, or at all. If additional capital is not available, we may have to curtail or cease operations. Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial product revenues, we will be required to finance our operations with our cash resources. We will need to raise additional funds in the future to support our operations. We cannot be certain that additional capital will be available as needed or on acceptable terms, or at all. If we require additional capital at a time when investment in our company, in molecular diagnostics companies or the marketplace in general is limited, we may not be able to raise such funds at the time that we desire, or at all. If we do raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible securities, the percentage ownership of holders of our common stock could be significantly diluted. In addition, newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we obtain debt financing, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations and place encumbrances on our assets. If we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we could be required to relinquish significant rights to our technologies and products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. 24 Table of Contents If our products do not perform as expected or the reliability of the technology on which our products are based is questioned, our operating results and business will suffer. Our success depends on the market’s confidence that we can provide reliable, high-quality diagnostic systems and tests. We believe that customers in our target markets are likely to be particularly sensitive to product defects and errors. As a result, our reputation and the public image of our products or technologies will be significantly impaired if our products fail to perform as expected. Although our diagnostic systems are designed to be user-friendly, the functions they perform are complex, and our products may develop or contain undetected defects or errors. If we experience a material defect or error, this could result in loss or delay of revenues, increased costs to produce our tests, delayed market acceptance, damaged reputation, diversion of development and management resources, legal claims, increased insurance costs or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also face the risk of product liability exposure related to the sale of our products. We currently carry product liability insurance that covers us against specific product liability claims. We also carry a separate general liability and umbrella policy that covers us against certain claims but excludes coverage for product liability. Any claim in excess of our insurance coverage, or for which we do not have insurance coverage, would have to be paid out of our cash reserves, which would harm our financial condition. We cannot assure you that we have obtained sufficient insurance or broad enough coverage to cover potential claims. Also, we cannot assure you that we can or will maintain our insurance policies on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. A product liability claim could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may fail to successfully expand the menu of diagnostic tests for our XT-8 system or effectively predict the types of tests our existing and target customers want. We currently market three FDA-cleared diagnostic tests and have developed one other diagnostic test currently labeled for RUO that has been submitted to the FDA for 510(k) clearance. In addition, we have several diagnostic tests in the research, development or design stage. Some hospital-based and reference laboratories may not consider adopting our XT-8 system until we offer a broader menu of diagnostic tests. Although we are developing additional tests to respond to the needs of these laboratories, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to license the appropriate technology, successfully develop, or obtain required regulatory clearances or approvals for additional tests, or do so in a manner that is cost-effective or timely. The development of new or enhanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends, as well as precise technological execution. In addition, in order to commercialize our products, we are required to undertake time consuming and costly development activities, including clinical studies for which the outcome is uncertain. Products that appear promising during early development and preclinical studies may, nonetheless, fail to demonstrate the results needed to support regulatory approval or, if approved, may not generate the demand we expect. If we are unable to successfully develop and commercialize additional diagnostic tests for use with our XT-8 system, our revenues and our ability to achieve profitability will be significantly impaired. 25 Table of Contents We may not be able to manage our anticipated growth, and we may experience constraints or inefficiencies caused by unanticipated acceleration and deceleration of customer demand. Demand for our Respiratory Viral Panel can be seasonal based upon influenza outbreaks. Also, unanticipated changes in customer demand for our products may result in constraints or inefficiencies related to our manufacturing, sales force, implementation resources and administrative infrastructure. These constraints or inefficiencies may adversely affect us as a result of delays, lost potential product sales or loss of current or potential customers due to their dissatisfaction. Similarly, over-expansion or investments in anticipation of growth that does not materialize, or develops more slowly than we expect, could harm our financial results and result in overcapacity. To manage our anticipated future growth effectively, we must enhance our manufacturing capabilities and operations, information technology infrastructure, and financial and accounting systems and controls. Organizational growth and scale-up of operations could strain our existing managerial, operational, financial and other resources. Our growth could require significant capital expenditures and may divert financial resources from other projects, such as the development of new products or enhancements of existing products. If our management is unable to effectively manage our growth, our expenses may increase more than expected, our revenue could grow more slowly than expected and we may not be able to achieve our research and development and commercialization goals. Our failure to manage our anticipated growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We may not be able to correctly estimate or control our future operating expenses, which could lead to cash shortfalls. Our operating expenses may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: • the time and resources required to develop, conduct clinical studies and obtain regulatory clearances for the additional diagnostic tests we develop; • the expenses we incur for research and development required to maintain and improve our technology, including developing our next-generation molecular diagnostic system; • the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other patent related costs, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation. • the expenses we incur in connection with commercialization activities, including product marketing, sales and distribution; • the expenses we incur in licensing biomarkers from third parties to expand the menu of diagnostics tests we plan to offer; • our sales strategy and whether the revenues from sales of our test cartridges or XT-8 system will be sufficient to offset our expenses; • the costs to attract and retain personnel with the skills required for effective operations; and 26 Table of Contents • the costs associated with being a public company. Our budgeted expense levels are based in part on our expectations concerning future revenues from sales of our XT-8 system and diagnostic tests. We may be unable to reduce our expenditures in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenue. Accordingly, a shortfall in demand for our products could have an immediate and material impact on our business and financial condition. We face intense competition from established and new companies in the molecular diagnostics field and expect to face increased competition in the future. The markets for our technologies and products are very competitive, and we expect the intensity of competition to increase. We compete with many companies in the United States engaged in the development, commercialization and distribution of similar products intended for clinical molecular diagnostic applications. Categories of competitors include: • companies developing and marketing multiplex molecular diagnostics systems, including Luminex Corporation; Nanosphere; Qiagen NV; Abbott Diagnostics, a division of Abbott Laboratories; Hologic, Inc. and Innogenetics Inc.; • large hospital-based laboratories and reference laboratories who provide large-scale testing using their own proprietary testing methods including Quest Diagnostics Incorporated and Laboratory Corporation of America; and • companies that manufacture laboratory-based tests and analyzers including Cepheid; Gen-Probe, Inc.; Siemens; Hologic, Inc.; Qiagen NV; Roche Diagnostics, a division of F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd.; and Abbott Diagnostics. Our diagnostic tests also face competition from laboratory-developed-tests, or LDTs, developed by national and regional reference laboratories and hospitals. Such laboratory-developed tests may not be subject to the same regulatory requirements, including those requiring clinical trials and FDA review and clearance or approval, that may apply to our products. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter the market with new technologies and our competitors improve their current products and expand their menu of diagnostic tests. Many of our current competitors, as well as many of our potential competitors, have greater name recognition, more substantial intellectual property portfolios, longer operating histories, significantly greater resources to invest in new technologies, more substantial experience in new product development, greater regulatory expertise, more extensive manufacturing and distribution capabilities. The impact of these factors may result in our technologies and products becoming obsolete before we recover the expenses incurred to develop them or before they generate significant revenue. We are reliant on the commercial success of our XT-8 system and our diagnostic tests. We have primarily placed our XT-8 systems with customers at no initial charge through placement agreements, under which customers commit to purchasing minimum quantities of test 27 Table of Contents cartridges over a period of generally one to three years, with a component of the reagent cartridge price allocated to recover the instrument cost. We also offer our XT-8 systems for sale. We expect sales of our diagnostic tests associated with our XT-8 system will account for the vast majority of our revenues for at least the next several years. We intend to dedicate a significant portion of our resources to the commercialization of our XT-8 system and our existing FDA-cleared diagnostic tests. Although we intend to develop a broad range of additional diagnostic tests for use with the XT-8 system, we cannot assure you when or if we will obtain FDA clearance for the tests we develop in the future, or whether the market will accept such new products. As a result, to the extent that our XT-8 system and our existing and future FDA-cleared diagnostic tests are not commercially successful or are withdrawn from the market for any reason, our revenues will be harmed and our business, operating results and financial condition will be harmed. We may not be successful in developing our NexGen system. We are developing a sample-to-answer platform, the NexGen system. We are designing this system to integrate automated nucleic acid extraction and amplification with our eSensor technology to allow technicians to be able to place a patient sample into our test cartridge and obtain results with significantly reduced or no technician hands-on processing time. The development of the NexGen system is a complex process, and we may not be successful in completing the development of all the currently intended features and benefits of the system, which may limit its marketability. In addition, before commercializing the NexGen system we will be required to obtain regulatory approval for the system as well as each of the diagnostic tests to be used on the system, including those tests that previously received approval for use with our XT-8 system. If we are unable to successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval for our NexGen system and related diagnostic tests, our business plan will be impaired. Additionally, prior to or upon release of our NexGen System, sales of our XT-8 system may decrease as customers migrate over to our newer technology. Our financial results will depend on the acceptance and increased demand among reference laboratories and hospitals, third-party payors and the medical community of our molecular diagnostic technology and products. Our future success depends on the acceptance by our target customers, third-party payors and the medical community that our molecular diagnostic products are a reliable, medically-relevant, accurate and cost-effective replacement for other molecular diagnostic testing methods. Medical offices and many hospitals outsource their molecular diagnostic testing needs to national or regional reference laboratories. Our business success depends on our ability to convince these target laboratories and hospitals to replace their current testing platforms and/or send-out tests, with our XT-8 system and related diagnostic tests. We must also continue to increase the number of available tests, and test sell-through, on our installed systems. Many other factors may affect the market acceptance and commercial success of our molecular diagnostic technology and products, including: • the relative convenience and ease of use of our diagnostic systems over competing products; 28 Table of Contents • the introduction of new technologies and competing products that may make our technologies and products a less attractive solution for our target customers; • the breadth of our menu of available diagnostic tests relative to our competitors; • our success in training reference and hospital-based laboratories in the proper use of our products; • the acceptance in the medical community of our molecular diagnostic technology and products; • the extent and success of our marketing and sales efforts; and • general economic conditions. Our success depends on our ability to service and support our products. To the extent that we fail to maintain a high quality level of service and support for our products, there is a risk that the perceived quality of our products will be diminished in the marketplace. Likewise, we may fail to provide the level, quantity or quality of service expected by the marketplace. This could result in slower adoption rates and lower than anticipated utilization of our products which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Manufacturing risks and inefficiencies may adversely affect our ability to produce products; we have a sole source of supply for our XT-8 System. We must manufacture, or engage third parties to manufacture, components of our products in sufficient quantities and on a timely basis, while maintaining product quality, acceptable manufacturing costs and complying with regulatory requirements. Our components are custom-made by only a few outside suppliers. If we are unable to satisfy our forecasted demand from existing suppliers for our kits and are unable to find alternative suppliers at reasonably comparable prices, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, we have entered into supply agreements with most of our suppliers of strategic reagents and parts to help ensure component availability and flexible purchasing terms with respect to the purchase of such components. If our suppliers discontinue production of a key component, we will be required to revalidate and may be required to resubmit a previously cleared product. In determining the required quantities of our products and the manufacturing schedule, we must make significant judgments and estimates based on inventory levels, current market trends and other related factors. Because of the inherent nature of estimates and our limited experience in marketing our products, there could be significant differences between our estimates and the actual amounts of products we require. This can result in shortages if we fail to anticipate demand, or excess inventory and write-offs if we order more than we need. We currently manufacture our proprietary test cartridges at our Carlsbad, California manufacturing facility. We outsource manufacturing of our XT-8 system and much of the 29 Table of Contents disposable component molding and component assembly for our test cartridges. Our XT-8 system is manufactured by Aubrey Group Inc., our single source supplier that specializes in contract design and manufacturing of electronic and electromechanical devices for medical use. While we work closely with Aubrey Group Inc. to try to ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability, we cannot guarantee that these efforts will be successful. Should Aubrey Group Inc. become unable or unwilling to continue to meet our supply needs, we may experience delays in qualifying a new source or may not obtain as favorable pricing or other terms, any of which could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risk to which we would not be subject if we manufactured these components ourselves, including: • reliance on third parties for regulatory compliance and quality assurance; • possible breaches of manufacturing agreements by the third parties because of factors beyond our control; • possible regulatory violations or manufacturing problems experienced by our suppliers; • possible termination or non-renewal of agreements by third parties, based on their own business priorities, at times that are costly or inconvenient for us; • the potential obsolescence and/or inability of our suppliers to obtain required components; • the potential delays and expenses of seeking alternate sources of supply or manufacturing services; • the inability to qualify alternate sources without impacting performance claims of our products; • reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery due to the difficulties in switching to alternate suppliers or assemblers; and • increases in prices of raw materials and key components. We may not be able to meet the demand for our products if one or more of these third-party manufacturers are not able or are unwilling to supply us with the necessary components that meet our specifications. It may be difficult to find alternate suppliers in a timely manner and on terms acceptable to us. The manufacturing operations for our test cartridges use highly technical processes involving unique, proprietary techniques. In addition, the manufacturing equipment we use would be costly to repair or replace and could require substantial lead time to repair or replace. Any interruption in our operations or decrease in the production capacity of our manufacturing facility or the facilities of any of our suppliers because of equipment failure, natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and fires or otherwise, would limit our ability to meet customer demand for the XT-8 system and tests and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Other possible disruptions may include power loss and telecommunications failures. In the event of a disruption, we may lose customers and we may be unable to regain those 30 Table of Contents customers thereafter. Our insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. We have only produced our products in limited quantities, and we may experience problems in scaling our manufacturing operations, or delays or component shortages that could limit the growth of our revenue. To date, we have produced our products in limited quantities relative to the quantities necessary to achieve desired revenue growth. We may not be able to produce sufficient quantities or maintain consistency between differing lots of consumables. If we encounter difficulties in scaling our manufacturing operations as a result of, among other things, quality control and quality assurance issues and availability of components and raw material supplies, we will likely experience reduced sales of our products, increased repair or re-engineering costs due to product returns, and defects and increased expenses due to switching to alternate suppliers, any of which would reduce our revenues and gross margins. Although we attempt to match our parts inventory and production capabilities to estimates of marketplace demand, to the extent system orders materially vary from our estimates, we may experience continued constraints in our systems production and delivery capacity, which could adversely impact revenue in a given fiscal period. Should our need for raw materials and components used in production continue to fluctuate, we could incur additional costs associated with either expediting or postponing delivery of those materials. If we are unable to retain key members of our senior management and scientists or hire additional skilled employees, we may be unable to achieve our goals. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our senior management and key scientific and technical personnel. Our senior managers and other key employees can terminate their relationship with us at any time. We have a small number of senior managers, and the loss of services of any of these managers or our scientific or technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our employees. In addition, our product development and marketing efforts could be delayed or curtailed if we are unable to attract, train and retain highly skilled employees and scientific advisors. To expand our research, product development and sales efforts, we will need to retain additional people skilled in areas such as electrochemical and molecular science, information technology, manufacturing, sales, marketing and technical support. Because of the complex and technical nature of our systems and the dynamic market in which we compete, any failure to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could materially harm our ability to develop and commercialize our technology. We may not be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Our success may depend upon how we and our competitors anticipate and adapt to market conditions. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, emerging competition and new product introductions. New technologies, techniques or products could emerge with similar or better performance or may be perceived as providing better value than our systems and related tests and could exert pricing pressures on our products. It is critical to our success that we anticipate changes in technology and customer requirements and successfully introduce enhanced and competitive technology to meet our customers’ and prospective customers’ needs on a timely basis. We will need to respond to technological innovation in a rapidly changing industry and may not be able to maintain our technological advantages over emerging technologies in the future. If we fail to keep pace with emerging technologies, our systems and related tests will become uncompetitive and our market share will decline, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unsuccessful in our long-term goal of expanding sales of our product offerings outside the United States. Assuming we receive the applicable regulatory approvals, we intend to market our diagnostic products outside the United States through third-party distributors. These distributors may not commit the necessary resources to market and sell our products to meet our expectations. If distributors do not perform adequately or in compliance with applicable laws and regulations in particular geographic areas, or if we are unable to locate distributors in particular geographic areas, our ability to realize revenue growth based on sales outside the United States would be harmed. In order to market our products in the European Union and many other foreign jurisdictions, we, or our distributors or partners, must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements regarding safety and efficacy and governing, among other things, clinical studies and commercial sales and distribution of our products. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The regulatory approval process outside the United States may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval, as well as additional risks. In addition, in many countries outside the United States, it is required that the product be approved for reimbursement before the product can be approved for sale in that country. We may not obtain approvals from regulatory authorities outside the United States on a timely basis, if at all, which could harm our ability to expand into markets outside the United States. If we expand sales of our products outside the United States, our business will be susceptible to risks associated with international operations. If we execute our intent to expand our operations outside the United States, our inexperience in operating in foreign countries increases the risk that our international expansion will not be successful. Conducting international operations would subject us to new risks that, generally, we have not faced in the United States, including: 32 Table of Contents • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • unexpected complexity and changing foreign regulatory requirements; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems, tax inefficiencies related to our corporate structure and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and different legal standards; • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; • hyperinflation, political, social and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; • having to comply with a variety of U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; and • the imposition of restrictive trade policies, including export restrictions; and • conducting business in places where business practices and customs are unfamiliar and unknown The occurrence of any one of these risks could harm our business, results of operations and prospects. Additionally, operating internationally requires significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required in establishing operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenues or profitability. Guidelines, recommendations and studies published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products. Professional societies, government agencies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations involved in healthcare issues may publish guidelines, recommendations or studies to the healthcare and patient communities. Recommendations of government agencies or these other groups/organizations may relate to such matters as usage, cost-effectiveness, and use of related products. Organizations like these have in the past made recommendations about our competitors’ products, such as the need for less frequent screening tests, which could result in reduced product sales. Moreover, the perception by the investment community or stockholders that recommendations, guidelines or studies will result in decreased use of our products could adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. 33 Table of Contents Our Respiratory Viral Panel test and other menu items that we develop in the future may have sales that fluctuate on a seasonal basis and, as a result, our results of operations for any particular quarter may not accurately reflect full-year trends. Our Respiratory Viral Panel Test and other tests that we develop in the future may have sales that fluctuate on a seasonal basis. As a result, our results of operations for any particular quarter may not accurately reflect full-year trends. For example, we expect volume of testing for our Respiratory Viral Panel Test generally will decline during the spring and summer season and accelerate during the fall and winter season. As a result, comparison of our results from quarter-to-quarter may not accurately reflect trends or results for the full year. We have limited experience in sales and marketing and may be unable to successfully commercialize our XT-8 system and related diagnostic tests. We have limited marketing, sales and distribution experience and capabilities. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on attracting customers for the XT-8 system, expanding the number of tests we offer, and building brand loyalty. To successfully perform sales, marketing, distribution and customer support functions ourselves, we face a number of risks, including: • our ability to attract and retain the skilled support team, marketing staff and sales force necessary to commercialize and gain market acceptance for our technology and our products; • the ability of our sales and marketing team to identify and penetrate the potential customer base, including hospitals, national and regional reference laboratories; and • the difficulty of establishing brand recognition and loyalty for our products. In addition, we may seek to enlist one or more third parties to assist with sales, distribution and customer support globally or in certain regions of the world. If we do seek to enter into these arrangements, we may not be successful in attracting desirable sales and distribution partners, or we may not be able to enter into these arrangements on favorable terms, or at all. If our sales and marketing efforts, or those of any third-party sales and distribution partners, are not successful, our technologies and products may not gain market acceptance, which would harm our business operations. Current economic conditions and the uncertain economic outlook may adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Global economic conditions may remain challenging and uncertain for the foreseeable future. The credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government. These conditions not only limit our access to capital but also make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause U.S. and foreign businesses and consumers to slow spending on our products and services, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. Some of our customers rely on government research grants to fund technology purchases. If negative trends in 34 Table of Contents the economy affect the government’s allocation of funds to research, there may be less grant funding available for certain of our customers to purchase technologies from us. Certain of our customers may face challenges gaining timely access to sufficient credit or may otherwise be faced with budget constraints, which could result in decreased purchases of, or development of products based on, our products or in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. If our customers do not make timely payments to us, we may be required to assume greater credit risk relating to those customers, increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales outstanding would be negatively impacted. Although we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments and such losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, we may not continue to experience the same loss rates that we have in the past, especially given the current turmoil of the worldwide economy. Additionally, these economic conditions and market turbulence may also impact our suppliers causing them to be unable to supply in a timely manner sufficient quantities of customized components, thereby impairing our ability to manufacture on schedule and at commercially reasonable costs. If third-party payors increasingly restrict payments for healthcare expenses or fail to adequately pay for multi-analytic testing, we may experience reduced sales which would hurt our business and our business prospects. Third-party payors, such as government entities and healthcare programs, health maintenance organizations and private insurers, are continually seeking to reduce healthcare expenses. The federal government has also recently reduced the funding for certain government-sponsored healthcare programs which has caused these third party payors to seek further reduction in medical expenses. The U.S. federal government passed comprehensive healthcare reform in the form of the Affordable Care Act in 2010 and is considering revisions to this Act. The Affordable Care Act could further limit government reimbursement to these payors. These reductions may decrease demand for our products and the price we can charge. Increasingly, Medicaid and other third-party payors are challenging the prices charged for medical services, including clinical diagnostic tests. They are also attempting to contain costs by limiting coverage and the reimbursement level of tests and other healthcare products. In addition, cost containment initiatives by governmental or educational entities or programs may reduce funding for genetic research and development activities and retard the growth of the genetic testing market. Without adequate coverage and reimbursement, consumer demand for tests could decrease. Decreased demand could cause our customers to reduce purchases or to cancel programs or development activities and could cause sales of our products to fall. In addition, decreased demand could place pressure on us to lower prices on these products or services, resulting in lower margins. Reduced sales or margins would adversely affect our business, profitability and business prospects. Providing XT-8 systems to our customers through reagent rental agreements may harm our liquidity. The majority of our XT-8 systems are provided to customers via “reagent rental” agreements, under which customers are afforded the right to use the XT-8 system in return for a commitment to purchase minimum quantities of test cartridges over a period of time. Accordingly, we must incur the expense of manufacturing XT-8 systems well in advance of receiving sufficient revenues 35 Table of Contents from test cartridges to recover our manufacturing expenses. We also offer our XT-8 systems for sale. The amount of additional capital we may need to raise depends on the amount of our revenues from sales of test cartridges sold through these reagent rental agreements. We do not currently sell enough test cartridges to recover all of our fixed manufacturing expenses associated with the production of our systems and test cartridges, and therefore we currently have a high cost of sales relative to revenue, resulting in a gross loss for 2011. If we continue not to sell a sufficient number of test cartridges to offset our expenses associated with these reagent rental agreements, our liquidity will be adversely affected. We use hazardous chemicals, biological materials and infectious agents in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research, product development and manufacturing processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals, biological materials and infectious disease agents. Our operations produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. We may be sued for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and our liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials and specified waste products, as well as the discharge of pollutants into the environment and human health and safety matters. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive and may impair our research, development and production efforts. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur substantial costs, including civil or criminal fines and penalties, clean-up costs or capital expenditures for control equipment or operational changes necessary to achieve and maintain compliance. In addition, we cannot predict the impact on our business of new or amended environmental laws or regulations or any changes in the way existing and future laws and regulations are interpreted and enforced. Our corporate structure may create tax inefficiencies. As a result of our reorganization in 2010 and prior to the reorganization steps that took place in June 2011 (as described below), Osmetech plc was a wholly-owned subsidiary of GenMark and a controlled foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This organizational structure may have created inefficiencies, as certain types of income and investments of Osmetech that otherwise would not be currently taxable under general tax rules, may have become taxable. In addition, conveyance of intellectual property rights from one subsidiary to another could create taxable income. Distributions from GenMark to its operating subsidiaries or amongst the U.S. operating subsidiaries of GenMark could have been subject to additional U.S. and foreign income tax withholding and result in lower profits. During the quarter ended June 30, 2011, the Company underwent a corporate reorganization, or reorganization, intended to simplify its U.S. entity structure. As part of the reorganization, Osmetech Technologies, Inc. merged into Clinical Micro Sensors, Inc., or CMS, with CMS surviving. Additionally, Osmetech plc converted to a U.K. limited company for U.K. legal and tax purposes, and made an entity classification election to be treated as an entity disregarded from GenMark Diagnostics, Inc. for U.S. federal income tax purposes. It is anticipated that the reorganization will not trigger any material U.S. federal or U.K. 36 Table of Contents income tax expense. Additionally, it is anticipated that the post-reorganization structure will allow GenMark Diagnostics, Inc. to elect to file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return with its remaining U.S. subsidiaries, CMS and Osmetech, Inc. As a result of these steps, all operations will be included in a U.S. federal consolidated tax return and many of the inefficiencies described above are eliminated on a go-forward basis, however, the reorganization may result in additional tax liabilities to the Company. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards might be limited. As of December 31, 2011, we had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $99.5 million for U.S. federal income tax purposes. These loss carryforwards will expire in varying amounts through 2031. To the extent these net operating loss carryforwards are available, we intend to use them to reduce the corporate income tax liability associated with our operations. Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that might be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in stock ownership. As a result, prior or future changes in ownership could put limitations on the availability of our net operating loss carryforwards. In addition, our ability to use the current net operating loss carryforwards might be further limited by the issuance of common stock in the future. To the extent our use of net operating loss carryforwards is significantly limited, our income could be subject to corporate income tax earlier than it would if we were able to use net operating loss carryforwards, which could result in lower profits. We have determined that we have experienced multiple ownership changes under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, or the Code. We have estimated that approximately $42.0 million of federal net operating losses may be utilized in the future based on limitations that we have calculated under Section 382 of the Code. We are currently analyzing alternative positions and additional factual information that may increase the amount of net operating losses that could subsequently be utilized. To the extent that this additional information becomes available and could increase net operating losses available for use, we will adjust our deferred tax assets accordingly, with a corresponding adjustment to our valuation allowance. We also had non-U.S. net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $30.4 million as of December 31, 2011. We are exposed to risks associated with long-lived and intangible assets that may become impaired and result in an impairment charge. The carrying amounts of long-lived and intangible assets are affected whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any asset may not be recoverable. These events or changes might include an inability to successfully deliver an instrument to the marketplace and attain customer acceptance, a change in the rights or use of licensed intellectual property or other matters. Adverse events or changes in circumstances may affect the estimated discounted future cash flows expected to be derived from long-lived and intangible assets. If at any time we determine that an impairment has occurred, we will be required to reflect the impaired value as a charge, resulting in a reduction in earnings in the quarter such impairment is identified and a corresponding reduction in our net asset value. In the past we have incurred, and 37 Table of Contents in the future we may incur, impairment charges. A material reduction in earnings resulting from such a charge could cause us to fail meet the expectations of investors and securities analysts, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. Failure to comply with covenants in our loan agreements could result in our inability to borrow additional funds and adversely impact our business. We have entered into a loan and security agreements with Square 1 Bank. These loan agreements impose financial and other restrictive covenants on our operations, including covenants relating to our general profitability and our liquidity. We were in compliance with these covenants as of December 31, 2011. If we violate these or any other covenants, any outstanding amounts under these agreements could become due and payable prior to their stated maturity dates, the bank could proceed against any collateral in our operating accounts and our ability to borrow funds in the future may be restricted or eliminated. These restrictions may also limit our ability to pursue business opportunities or strategies that we would otherwise consider to be in our best interests. Information technology systems implementation issues or security threats could disrupt our internal operations and adversely affect our financial results. Portions of our information technology infrastructure may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with ongoing systems implementation work. In particular, we have implemented an enterprise resource planning software system. To more fully realize the potential of this system, we are continually reassessing and upgrading processes and this may be more expensive, time consuming and resource intensive than planned. Any disruptions that may occur in the operation of this system or any future systems or any unauthorized access to our information systems could increase our expenses and adversely affect our ability to report in an accurate and timely manner the results of our consolidated operations, our financial position and cash flows and to otherwise operate our business in a secure environment, all of which could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation. Risks Related to Regulation The regulatory clearance or approval process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain, and the failure to obtain and maintain required clearances or approvals could prevent us from commercializing our future products. We are investing in the research and development of new diagnostic tests to expand our menu of testing options, as well as to develop our next-generation NexGen system, which we anticipate will reduce the need for sample preparation when using our system. Our products are subject to 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval by the FDA prior to their marketing for commercial use in the United States, and to any approvals required by foreign governmental entities prior to their marketing outside the United States. In addition, any changes or modifications to a device that has received regulatory clearance or approval that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or would constitute a major change in its intended use, may require the submission of a new application for 510(k) clearance, pre-market approval or foreign regulatory approvals. 38 Table of Contents The 510(k) clearance and pre-market approval processes, as well as the process of obtaining foreign approvals, can be expensive, time consuming and uncertain. It generally takes from four to twelve months from submission to obtain 510(k) clearance, and from one to three years from submission to obtain pre-market approval; however, it may take longer, and 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval may never be obtained. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, clearances or approvals for future products, including tests that are currently in design or development, would result in delayed, or no, realization of revenues from such products and in substantial additional costs which could decrease our profitability. We have limited experience in filing FDA applications for 510(k) clearance and pre-market approval. In addition, we are required to continue to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements once we have obtained clearance or approval for a product. There can be no assurance that we will obtain or maintain any required clearance or approval on a timely basis, or at all. Any failure to obtain or any material delay in obtaining FDA clearance or any failure to maintain compliance with FDA regulatory requirements could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If third-party payors do not reimburse our customers for the use of our clinical diagnostic products or if reimbursement levels are set too low for us to sell our products at a profit, our ability to sell our products and our results of operations will be harmed. We sell our products to hospital-based and reference laboratories, substantially all of which receive reimbursement for the health care services they provide to their patients from third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid, other domestic and foreign government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. Reimbursement decisions by particular third-party payors depend upon a number of factors, including each third-party payor’s determination that use of a product is: • a covered benefit under its health plan; • appropriate and medically necessary for the specific indication; • cost effective; and • neither experimental nor investigational. Third-party payors may deny reimbursement for covered products if they determine that a medical product was not used in accordance with cost-effective diagnosis methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. Third-party payors also may refuse to reimburse for procedures and devices deemed to be experimental. Obtaining coverage and reimbursement approval for a product from each government or third-party payor is a time consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our product to each government or third-party payor. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to coverage and reimbursement. For example, Medicare and Medicaid generally do not reimburse providers who use our Warfarin Sensitivity Test. In addition, eligibility for coverage does not imply that any product will be covered and reimbursed in all cases or reimbursed at a rate that allows our potential customers to make a profit or even cover their costs. 39 Table of Contents In the United States, the American Medical Association assigns specific CPT codes, which are necessary for reimbursement of diagnostic tests. Once the CPT code is established, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services establish reimbursement payment levels and coverage rules under Medicaid and Medicare, and private payors establish rates and coverage rules independently. We cannot guarantee that any of our tests are or will be covered by the CPT codes that we believe may be applied to them or that any of our tests or other products will be approved for coverage or reimbursement by Medicare and Medicaid or any third-party payor. Third-party payors may nonetheless choose to reimburse our customers on a per test basis based on individual biomarker detection, rather than on the basis of the number of results given by the test. This may result in reference laboratories, public health institutions and hospitals electing to use separate tests to screen for each disease so that they can receive reimbursement for each test they conduct. In that event, these entities may purchase separate tests for each disease, rather than products, such as ours, that can be used to return multiple test results. Third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. Increasingly, Medicare, Medicaid and other third-party payors are challenging the prices charged for medical services, including clinical diagnostic tests. In addition, Medicare’s current freeze on its clinical laboratory fee schedule may harm the growth of the molecular diagnostics market for patients in the United States who are over 65 or have specific disabilities. Levels of reimbursement may decrease in the future, and future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payors may harm the demand for and reimbursement available for our products, which in turn, could harm pricing and sales. If our customers are not adequately reimbursed for our products, they may reduce or discontinue purchases of our products, which would cause our revenues to decline. We are subject to evolving legislative, judicial and ethical standards on use of technology and biotechnology. The adoption of genetic testing is occurring within the broader context of a myriad of decisions related to genetic patenting and genotyping. Issues associated with health insurance, data access, intellectual property protection, national and international legislative initiatives and other variables may have a significant impact on the wide spread adoption of genetic testing or on specific segments or tests within the genetic testing market, including the adoption of our NexGen system and other of our products that are currently in the development and design stage. We and our suppliers, contract manufacturers and customers are subject to various governmental regulations, and we may incur significant expenses to comply with, and experience delays in our product commercialization as a result of, these regulations. Our manufacturing processes and facilities, and those of some of our contract manufacturers, are required to comply with the federal QSR, which covers the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our devices. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic announced and/or unannounced inspections of manufacturing facilities. We and our contract manufacturers have been, and anticipate in the future being, subject to such inspections, as well as to inspections by other federal and state regulatory agencies. 40 Table of Contents We must also file reports of device corrections and removals and adhere to the FDA’s rules on labeling and promotion. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including substantial monetary penalties and criminal prosecution. Failure to comply with applicable FDA requirements, or later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products or manufacturing processes, including our failure or the failure of one of our contract manufacturers to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection, can result in, among other things: • administrative or judicially imposed sanctions; • injunctions or the imposition of civil penalties; • recall or seizure of our products; • total or partial suspension of production or distribution; • the FDA’s refusal to grant pending future clearance or pre-market approval for our products; • withdrawal or suspension of marketing clearances or approvals; • clinical holds; • warning letters; • refusal to permit the import or export of our products; and • criminal prosecution. Any of these actions, in combination or alone, could prevent us from marketing, distributing or selling our products and would likely harm our business. In addition, a product defect or regulatory violation could lead to a government-mandated or voluntary recall by us. We believe that the FDA would request that we initiate a voluntary recall if a product was defective or presented a risk of injury or gross deception. Regulatory agencies in other countries have similar authority to recall devices because of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture that could endanger health. Any recall would divert management attention and financial resources, could cause the price of our shares of common stock to decline and expose us to product liability or other claims, including contractual claims from parties to whom we sold products and harm our reputation with customers. A recall involving our XT-8 system or our FDA-cleared diagnostic tests would be particularly harmful to our business and financial results. The use of our diagnostic products by our customers is also affected by the CLIA, and related federal and state regulations that provide for regulation of laboratory testing. CLIA is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories in the United States by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality assurance and quality control and inspections. Current or 41 Table of Contents future CLIA requirements or the promulgation of additional regulations affecting laboratory testing may prevent some laboratories from using some or all of our diagnostic products. Legislative or regulatory healthcare reforms may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory clearance or approval of our products and to produce, market and distribute our products after clearance or approval is obtained. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the regulatory clearance or approval, manufacture and marketing of regulated products or the reimbursement thereof. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the FDA in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. For example, in the future, the FDA may require more burdensome premarket approval of our system or diagnostic tests rather than the 510(k) clearance process we have used to date and anticipate primarily using in the future. Any new regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing regulations may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of our products. Delays in receipt of or failure to receive regulatory clearances or approvals for our new products would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Federal and state governments in the United States are also undertaking efforts to control growing health care costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and third-party payors. In March 2010, Congress enacted comprehensive health care reform legislation known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, or the PPACA. While the PPACA involves expanding coverage to more individuals, it includes new regulatory mandates and other measures designed to constrain medical costs. The PPACA also imposes significant new taxes on medical device manufacturers that are expected to cost the medical device industry up to $20 billion over the next decade. There are also stringent new reporting requirements of financial relationships between device manufacturers and physicians and teaching hospitals. Complying with PPACA could significantly increase our tax liabilities and costs, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our operations will also be impacted by the PPACA, as modified by the Health Care Act. The Health Care Act imposes a 2.3% excise tax on sales of medical devices by manufacturers. Taxable devices include any medical device defined in Section 201(h) of the FDCA, and intended for use by humans, with limited exclusions for devices purchased by the general public at retail for individual use. There is no exemption for small companies, and we expect to begin paying the tax in 2013. The Health Care Act also requires manufacturers to report to the Department of Health and Human Services detailed information about financial arrangements with physicians and teaching hospitals. These reporting provisions preempt state laws that require reporting of the same information, but not those that require reports of different or additional information. Failure to comply subjects the manufacturer to significant civil monetary penalties. We expect compliance with the Health Care Act to impose significant administrative and financial burdens on us. 42 Table of Contents We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback, self-referral, false claims and fraud laws, and any violations by us of such laws could result in fines or other penalties. Our commercial, research, and other financial relationships with healthcare providers and institutions are subject to various federal and state laws intended to prevent health care fraud and abuse. The federal anti-kickback statute prohibits the knowing offer, receipt or payment of remuneration in exchange for or to induce the referral of patients or the use of products or services that would be paid for in whole or part by Medicare, Medicaid or other federal health care programs. Remuneration has been broadly defined to include anything of value, including cash, improper discounts, and free or reduced price items and services. Many states have similar laws that apply to their state health care programs as well as private payors. Violations of the anti-kickback laws can result in exclusion from federal health care programs and substantial civil and criminal penalties. The federal False Claims Act, or the FCA, imposes liability on persons who, among other things, present or cause to be presented false or fraudulent claims for payment by a federal health care program. The FCA has been used to prosecute persons submitting claims for payment that are inaccurate or fraudulent, that are for services not provided as claimed, or for services that are not medically necessary. The FCA includes a whistleblower provision that allows individuals to bring actions on behalf of the federal government and share a portion of the recovery of successful claims. If our marketing or other arrangements were determined to violate anti-kickback or related laws, including the FCA, then our revenues could be adversely affected, which would likely harm on our business, financial condition and results of operations. State and federal authorities have aggressively targeted medical device companies for alleged violations of these anti-fraud statutes, based on improper research or consulting contracts with doctors, certain marketing arrangements that rely on volume-based pricing, off-label marketing schemes and other improper promotional practices. Companies targeted in such prosecutions have paid substantial fines in the hundreds of millions of dollars or more, have been forced to implement extensive corrective action plans, and have often become subject to consent decrees severely restricting the manner in which they conduct their business. If we become the target of such an investigation or prosecution based on our contractual relationships with providers or institutions, or our marketing and promotional practices, we could face similar sanctions which would materially harm our business. To the extent we commence commercial operations overseas, we will be subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and other countries’ anti-corruption/anti-bribery regimes, such as the U.K. Bribery Act. The FCPA prohibits improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Safeguards we implement to discourage improper payments or offers of payments by our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may be ineffective, and violations of the FCPA and similar laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, or other liabilities or proceedings against us, any of which would likely harm our reputation, business, financial condition and result of operations. 43 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We rely on third-party license agreements for patents and other technology related to our products. The termination of these agreements could delay or prevent us from being able to commercialize our products and the failure to negotiate new licenses could prevent us from expanding our menu of diagnostic products. We depend on licenses to certain patents and patent applications that are related to electrochemical detection technology and other technology used in our molecular diagnostic systems and test cartridges. These licenses include both exclusive and non-exclusive arrangements. Many of these exclusive licenses obligate us to use commercially reasonable efforts to commercialize the subject inventions of the licensed patents, and if we fail to meet this obligation, we could lose one or more of those licenses. If, following such an event, any of our licensors were to provide a license to these patents to one or more of our competitors, our ability to compete in the market may be diminished. Furthermore, if we fail to comply with our material obligations under any of our patent license agreements, the licenses may be terminated and we could lose license rights that are important to our business. The exclusive and non-exclusive licenses expire at various times, corresponding to the subject patents or patent applications, the expirations of which currently range from 2013 to 2028. We expect that we will need to license other technology or patents to commercialize future products, including licenses to additional biomarkers to expand our menu of diagnostic tests. These licenses may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which could adversely affect our results of operations and growth prospects. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to the protection of our patents and other intellectual property rights and we may be unable to protect our rights to our technology. If we or any of our licensors choose to go to court to stop a third party from using the inventions claimed in our owned or licensed patents, that third party may ask the court to rule that the patents are invalid and should not be enforced against that third party. These lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources even if we were successful in stopping the infringement of these patents. In addition, there is a risk that the court will decide that these patents are not valid and that we do not have the right to stop others from using the inventions. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of these patents is upheld, the court will refuse to stop the other party on the ground that such other party’s activities do not infringe our patents. In addition, the U.S. Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit have recently changed certain tests regarding granting patents and assessing the validity of patent claims. As a consequence, issued patents may be found to contain invalid claims according to the newly revised and currently evolving standards. Some of our own or in-licensed patents may be subject to challenge and subsequent invalidation or significant narrowing of claim scope in a re-examination proceeding before the Patent and Trademark Office, or the PTO, or during litigation, under the revised criteria which make it more difficult to obtain patents. 44 Table of Contents We may also not be able to detect infringement against our own or in-licensed patents, which may be especially difficult for methods of use. While we intend to take actions reasonably necessary to enforce our patent rights, we depend, in part, on our licensors and collaborators to protect a substantial portion of our proprietary rights. Our products could infringe patent rights of others, which may require costly litigation and, if we are not successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages or limit our ability to commercialize our products. Our commercial success depends on our ability to develop, manufacture and market our systems and tests and use our proprietary technology without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. As the molecular diagnostic industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that there may be patents issued to third parties that relate to our products and technology of which we are not aware or that we must challenge to continue our operations as currently contemplated. Our products may infringe or may be alleged to infringe these patents. In addition, some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until eighteen months after filing and because publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our issued patents or our pending applications or that we were the first to invent the technology. Another party may have filed, and may in the future file, patent applications covering our products or technology similar to ours. Any such patent application may have priority over our patent applications or patents, which could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such technologies. If another party has filed a U.S. patent application on inventions similar to ours, we may have to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the PTO to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful if the other party had independently arrived at the same or similar invention prior to our own invention, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position with respect to such inventions. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device, biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we or any collaborator infringes its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including, but not limited to: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, regardless of merit, may be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and may divert our management’s attention from our core business; • substantial damages for infringement, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product at issue infringes on or violates the third party’s rights, and if the court finds that the infringement was willful, we could be ordered to pay treble damages and the patent owner’s attorneys’ fees; • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing our product unless the third party licenses its product rights to us, which it is not required to do; 45 Table of Contents • if a license is available from a third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, upfront fees or grant cross-licenses to intellectual property rights for our products; and • redesigning our products or processes so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial monetary expenditures and time. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations. We may be infringing on the patent rights of third parties, which could prevent us from selling our current or future products. From time to time we may become engaged in litigation with third parties having patent or other intellectual property rights alleging that our products or proprietary technologies infringe their intellectual property rights. These third parties and others who may in the future threaten us with such litigation, are or may be better capitalized and have more resources than us. In addition, in order to commercialize certain new or existing tests , we may be required to license certain biomarkers or risk that a third party may claim that the use of certain biomarkers in our tests infringes their intellectual property rights. We have received correspondence bringing to our attention certain patent rights held by third parties and offering to discuss licensing terms to the patents. Some of these letters relate to patents that are important to our products. Independently, we have also identified patents held by third parties that cover one or more of our products or planned products. Although we have taken licenses to numerous such third-party patents, we have also declined to license certain patents in instances where we do not believe our existing products infringe valid claims. In May 2010, we received correspondence from Caliper Life Sciences, Inc., or Caliper, alleging that fluid handling technologies utilized in our test cartridges infringe certain microfluidic patents held by Caliper and demanding that we take a license to its patents or else Caliper would institute litigation against us. On November 10, 2010, we filed a complaint for declaratory judgment against Caliper in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. In our complaint, we requested a declaration from the court that certain of Caliper’s microfluidic patents were invalid, and that we did not infringe on these patents. On February 24, 2011, we entered into an agreement with Caliper pursuant to which we agreed to dismiss our action for declaratory judgment, without prejudice, and Caliper agreed not to assert infringement by us on these patents for a period of six months. On August 24, 2011 we amended and restated our agreement with Caliper and agreed not to file or re-file a complaint, or to request reexamination of, certain Caliper patents prior to February 24, 2012, and Caliper agreed not to file any claims against GenMark asserting infringement of certain patents prior to February 24, 2012. After February 24, 2012, Caliper may again assert that we are infringing its patents and that we are required to take a license to its patents and could institute legal action. If one of Caliper’s patents or any other third-party patents were found to be valid and cover any of our products, or use of our proprietary technologies, we or any collaborator could be enjoined from using or selling our products by a court and/or required to pay damages and could be unable to commercialize our products or product candidates or use our proprietary technologies unless we or they obtained a license to the patent. A license may not be available to us or any collaborator on acceptable terms, 46 Table of Contents or at all, which could potentially prevent us from selling our current products, using our core technologies or developing new tests. In addition, during litigation, the patent holder could obtain a preliminary injunction or other equitable relief that could prohibit us from making, using or selling our products, technologies or methods pending a trial on the merits, which could be years away. Furthermore, such litigation can be extremely costly and could significantly affect our results of operations and divert the attention of managerial and technical personnel If we are unable to obtain, maintain and enforce intellectual property protection covering our products, others may be able to make, use, or sell products substantially the same as ours, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market. Our commercial success is dependent in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing intellectual property rights, including patents. If we are unable to obtain, maintain and enforce intellectual property protection covering our products, others may be able to make, use or sell products that are substantially the same as ours without incurring the sizeable development and licensing costs that we have incurred, which would adversely affect our ability to compete in the market. We seek to obtain and maintain patents and other intellectual property rights to restrict the ability of others to market products that compete with our products. Currently, our patent portfolio is comprised, on a worldwide basis, of over 100 issued U.S. and foreign patents and numerous pending applications. In general, patents have a term of 20 years from the application filing date or earlier claimed priority date. Our issued and exclusively licensed patents will expire between 2013 and 2021 or later, with several of our pending applications having the potential to mature into patents that might expire in 2027, 2028 and 2029. However, patents may not be issued based on any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us and, moreover, issued patents owned or licensed to us now or in the future may be found by a court to be invalid or otherwise unenforceable. Also, even if our patents are determined by a court to be valid and enforceable, they may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from marketing products similar to ours or designing around our patents, despite our patent rights, nor provide us with freedom to operate unimpeded by the patent rights of others. We have also licensed certain intellectual property from third parties related to our products, and we rely on them to file and prosecute patent applications and maintain patents and otherwise protect the licensed intellectual property. We have not had and do not have primary control over these activities for certain of our patents or patent applications and other intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that such activities by third parties have been or will be conducted in compliance with applicable laws and regulations or will result in valid and enforceable patents and other intellectual property rights. Pursuant to the terms of the license agreements with some of our licensors, the licensors may have the right to control enforcement of our licensed patents or defense of any claims asserting the invalidity of these patents and even if we are permitted to pursue such enforcement or defense, we will require the cooperation of our licensors. We cannot be certain that our licensors will allocate sufficient resources or prioritize their or our enforcement of such patents or defense of such claims to protect our interests in the licensed patents. The patent positions of medical device companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No 47 Table of Contents consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in patents in these fields has emerged to date in the United States or in many foreign jurisdictions. Both the U.S. Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit have made, and will likely continue to make, changes in how the patent laws of the U.S. are interpreted. In addition, Congress is regularly considering legislation that might change provisions of the patent law. We cannot predict future changes in the interpretation of patent laws or changes to patent laws which might be enacted into law. Those changes may materially affect our patents, our ability to obtain patents or the patents and applications of our collaborators and licensors. The patent situation in the medical device and disease diagnostic fields outside the United States is even more uncertain. Future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • others may be able to make systems or devices that are similar to ours but that are not covered by the claims of our patents; • we may not be able to identify potential infringers of our technology due in part to the large number of competitors in the field; • we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by our issued patents or pending patent applications; • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents; • our issued patents may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be held invalid or unenforceable as a result of legal challenges by third parties; • the claims of our issued patents or patent applications when issued may not cover our device or product candidates; • there may be dominating patents relevant to our product candidates of which we are not aware; • there may be prior public disclosures that could invalidate our inventions or parts of our inventions of which we are not aware; • the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States; and • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable. We have a number of foreign patents and applications. However, the laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States, and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in obtaining, protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we encounter such difficulties or we are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business prospects could be substantially harmed. 48 Table of Contents We also rely on trade-secret protection to protect our interests in proprietary know-how and for processes for which patents are difficult to obtain or enforce. We may not be able to protect our trade secrets adequately. We have limited control over the protection of trade secrets used by our licensors, collaborators and suppliers. Although we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third-party illegally obtained and is using any of our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. We rely, in part, on non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and other parties to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary technology. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Moreover, others may independently develop equivalent proprietary information, and third parties may otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. Any disclosure of confidential data into the public domain or to third parties could allow our competitors to learn our trade secrets and use the information in competition against us. The U.S. Government has certain rights to use and disclose some of the intellectual property that we license and could exclusively license it to a third party if we fail to achieve practical application of the intellectual property. Aspects of the technology licensed by us under agreements with third party licensors may be subject to certain government rights. Government rights in inventions conceived or reduced to practice under a government-funded program may include a non-exclusive, royalty-free worldwide license to practice such inventions for any governmental purpose. In addition, the U.S. government has the right to require us or our licensors (as applicable) to grant licenses which would be exclusive under any of such inventions to a third party if they determine that: (1) adequate steps have not been taken to commercialize such inventions in a particular field of use; (2) such action is necessary to meet public health or safety needs; or (3) such action is necessary to meet requirements for public use under federal regulations. Further, the government rights include the right to use and disclose, without limitation, technical data relating to licensed technology that was developed in whole or in part at government expense. At least one of our technology license agreements contains a provision recognizing these government rights. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is common in our industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other molecular diagnostics or medical device companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees, or we, have used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. 49 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be volatile and fluctuate significantly, which could result in substantial losses for stockholders and subject us to litigation. The market price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations. Among the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate are the risks described in this “Risk Factors” section and other factors, including: • fluctuations in our operating results or the operating results of our competitors; • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; • variance in our financial performance from the expectations of securities analysts; • changes in the estimates of the future size and growth rate of our markets; • changes in accounting principles or changes in interpretations of existing principles, which could affect our financial results; • failure of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance or commercial success; • conditions and trends in the markets we serve; • changes in general economic, industry and market conditions; • success of competitive products and services; • changes in market valuations or earnings of our competitors; • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; • announcements of significant new products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; • the timing and outcome of regulatory reviews and approvals of our products; • changes in legislation or regulatory policies, practices or actions; • the commencement or outcome of litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; • actual or expected sales of our common stock by the holders of our common stock; and • the trading volume of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general, the NASDAQ Global Market and the market for diagnostics companies in particular may experience a loss of investor confidence. A loss of investor confidence may result in extreme price and volume fluctuations in our common stock that are unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of our business, our financial condition or results of operations. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price 50 Table of Contents of our common stock and expose us to securities class-action litigation. Class-action litigation, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and divert management’s attention and resources, which could further materially harm our financial condition and results of operations. Future sales of our common stock may depress our share price. As of December 31, 2011, we had 20,477,761 shares of our common stock outstanding. Sales of a number of shares of common stock in the public market, or the expectation of such sales, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, our 2010 Equity Incentive Plan provides for annual increases in the number of shares available for issuance under the plan, which may, among other things, result in dilution of the price of our common stock. We may also sell additional common stock in subsequent public offerings, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We incur costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies in the United States, which may harm our operating results, and failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could cause investors to lose confidence in our operating results and in the accuracy of our financial reports and could harm our business and the price of our common stock. As a public company in the United States, we are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our first report on compliance with Section 404 is in connection with our financial statements for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011. The controls and other procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, is disclosed accurately and is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms. If we or our auditors were unable to certify that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and in compliance with Section 404, we may be subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or the NASDAQ Global Market and we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would materially harm our business and the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. Furthermore, as a public company listed in the United States, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including regulations implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Global Market, may increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If notwithstanding our efforts to comply with new 51 Table of Contents laws, regulations and standards, we fail to comply, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. Failure to comply with these rules might also make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we might be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, on committees of our board of directors or as members of senior management. We do not expect to declare any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, pursuant to our Loan and Security Agreement with Square 1 Bank, we are restricted from paying any dividends. The payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our results of operations, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, restrictions imposed by applicable law, any limitations on payments of dividends present in any debt agreements we may enter into and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant. Consequently, stockholders may need to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could make an acquisition of our Company, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove the current members of our board and management. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change of control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. Furthermore, these provisions could prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove members of our Board of Directors. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. These provisions: • allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our Board of Directors; • provide that our stockholders may only remove our directors for cause; • establish a classified board of directors, such that not all members of the board of directors may be elected at one time; • authorize our Board of Directors to issue without stockholder approval up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock, that, if issued, would dilute our stock ownership and could operate as a “poison pill” to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our Board of Directors; 52 Table of Contents • authorize our Board of Directors to issue without stockholder approval up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, the rights of which will be determined at the discretion of the Board of Directors that, if issued, could operate as a “poison pill” to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our Board of Directors; • require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting or by unanimous written consent; • establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to our Board of Directors or for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; • limit who may call stockholder meetings; and • require the approval of the holders of 80% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote in order to amend certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may, unless certain criteria are met, prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of the voting rights on our common stock, from merging or combining with us for a prescribed period of time. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 