D. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We may be unable to attract and retain skilled professionals in the competitive job market for IT professionals. Our business involves the delivery of professional services and is highly labor-intensive. Our ability to execute current and future projects and to obtain new customers depends largely on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel, particularly project managers, independent consultants, project leaders and domain experts. We believe that there is significant demand for those personnel. The loss of a significant number of our professionals or the inability to attract, hire, develop, train and retain additional skilled personnel may materially and adversely affect our ability to manage, staff and successfully complete our existing projects and obtain new projects. Increasing competition for these individuals may also significantly increase our labor costs, which may materially and adversely affect our profit margins and results of operations. 6 The markets for IT services in China are highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively. The markets for IT services in China are highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. The profiles and identities of our competitors may vary among our service lines and customers. We primarily compete with Chinese IT services firms. We may also compete with foreign IT service providers as well as domestic offshore IT services providers. Some of the firms with which we compete in these markets have significantly greater financial resources and more established market positions than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors have acquired, and may continue to acquire in the future, companies that may enhance their market shares and service offerings. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Our ability to compete may be further limited by the non-compete provisions in the agreements with some of our customers. If we are unable to compete successfully with our existing or new competitors, our financial results may be materially and adversely affected. Wages for IT professionals in China have increased in recent years and may continue to increase at a higher rate in the future, making us potentially less competitive and less profitable. Historically, wages for comparably skilled technical personnel in the Chinese IT services industry were lower than in developed countries, such as in Japan, the U.S. or Europe. In recent years, wages in the China IT services industry have increased and may continue to increase in the future. In order to attract and retain skilled personnel, we may need to continue to increase the wages of our work force. In addition, under the Regulations on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which became effective on January 1, 2008, employees who have served more than one year for a specific employer are entitled to a paid vacation ranging from 5 to 15 days, depending on length of service. Furthermore, employees who waive such vacation time at the request of employers shall be compensated for three times their normal salaries for each waived vacation day. This mandated paid-vacation regulation, coupled with the trend of increasing wages, may result in increased wages for our services, making us potentially less competitive, and may increase our cost of revenues and operating expenses, resulting in lower profit margins. We depend on a small number of customers to derive a significant portion of our revenues and this dependence is likely to continue. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers. In 2008, 2009 and 2010, net revenues from our largest customer accounted for 31.6%, 31.6% and 33.7%, respectively, of our net revenues, and net revenues from our largest five customers accounted for 48.4%, 49.0% and 48.2%, respectively, of our net revenues. If we lose any one of our major customers or any of these customers significantly reduces its volume of business with us, our net revenues and profitability would be substantially reduced. In addition, the volume of work we perform for specific customers may vary from year to year, particularly since we are generally not the exclusive service provider for our customers. Our high customer base concentration may also adversely affect our ability to negotiate contract prices with these customers, which may in turn materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We expect revenues from these customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. 7 In addition, our success depends significantly on our ability to maintain strong relationships with international IT service providers. In 2008, 2009 and 2010, we derived 38.9%, 38.8% and 36.5%, respectively, of our net revenues from providing our services through international IT service providers such as IBM, Accenture and HP, including a significant amount of net revenues from IBM. We expect to continue to depend on relationships with such international IT service providers for a significant portion of our net revenues in the foreseeable future. Our business prospects, financial condition or operating results could be materially and adversely affected if such IT service providers terminate their relationships with us or reduce volume of business with us, either because they choose to work with our competitors or because they choose to directly offer similar services that compete with our business. Further, our business prospects, financial condition or operating results could be materially and adversely affected if those service providers to whom we provide services are unsuccessful in obtaining new projects. If our delivery center agreements with IBM are terminated or are not renewed for any reason, our relationship with IBM as well as our overall business, operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. In addition to our then existing business with IBM, in March 2008, we entered into a technical services agreement and a master statement of work, or a master SOW, with IBM to establish a delivery center to deliver enterprise application services exclusively for IBM’s customers. In May 2011, we renewed the technical services agreement and the master SOW with IBM for an additional four years, under which the right for IBM to purchase the delivery center at a price based on the cumulative revenues generated by and net book value of the delivery center has been removed. Our net revenues derived from this delivery center totaled US$1.4 million in 2008, US$15.7 million in 2009 and US$36.5 million in 2010, or 1.6%, 13.3% and 18.9% of our total net revenues, respectively. We expect this delivery center to continue to account for a material percentage of our total net revenues for the foreseeable future. The renewed technical services agreement contains a number of key commercial and legal provisions, including: · Termination. The initial term is four years and can be renewed by IBM for one or more years with substantially the same terms and conditions. The technical services agreement may be terminated at an earlier date upon the occurrence of certain events, including, among others, a change of control, liquidation or bankruptcy of our company, and a failure by us to meet certain service standards. · Non-compete undertaking. We have agreed not to compete with IBM, in the field of SAP consulting services, for any existing or future business opportunity from IBM’s existing customers that is either continual or relating to any services provided by us under the technical services agreement. However, such non-compete undertaking does not apply to our existing customers. Our non-compete undertaking is effective throughout the term of the master SOW and for a period of 18 months following the termination of the master SOW. In light of the materiality of the delivery center to our relationships with IBM and our future operating results, we may face a number of risks and uncertainties to our business. For instance, there is no assurance that (i) our delivery center agreements will not be terminated or will be renewed after the initial term; and (ii) there may be ambiguities in the interpretation of the scope of our non-compete undertaking, particularly in light of our potential 8 overlapping customer base with IBM. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will not enter into a dispute with IBM relating to future customers and projects. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may materially and adversely affect our relationship with IBM, which has historically been our largest customer and strategic account, thereby materially and adversely affecting our overall business, results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 3. Key Information— D. Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry — We depend on a small number of customers to derive a significant portion of our revenues and this dependence is likely to continue.” Our historical outstanding accounts receivable have been relatively high. Inability to collect our accounts receivable on a timely basis, if at all, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Historically, our outstanding billed and unbilled accounts receivable have been relatively high. As of December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, our outstanding billed and unbilled accounts receivable were US$44.9 million, US$68.2 million and US$105.7 million, respectively. Although we conduct credit evaluations of our customers, we generally do not require collateral or other security from our customers. In addition, we have had a relatively high customer concentration. As a result, an extended delay or default in payment relating to a significant account will have a material and adverse effect on the aging schedule and turnover days of our accounts receivable. Our inability to collect our accounts receivable on a timely basis, if at all, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our revenues are highly dependent on customers primarily located in the PRC and certain other regions in Asia-Pacific. Prior to 2006, we derived all of our revenues from the PRC. However, as a result of a number of strategic acquisitions since 2006, we currently also derive a material portion of our revenues from customers in Taiwan and Japan. In 2008, 2009 and 2010, net revenues from the PRC, Taiwan and Japan in aggregate totaled US$88.7 million, US$117.2 million and US$190.5 million, respectively, representing 97.7%, 99.3% and 98.8% of total net revenues, respectively. Accordingly, our revenues are highly dependent on the Greater China region and Japan, and in particular, on the continued technology spending of our existing and prospective customers in these regions. The growth in technology spending generally decreases in a challenging economic environment. Adverse economic conditions in the regions may cause some customers to reduce or defer their expenditures for IT services. Therefore, a decline in the level of economic activity in the Greater China region and Japan could materially and adversely affect our net revenues and profit margins. A global financial and economic crisis, particularly a slowdown in the Chinese economy, may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The global financial crisis and economic downturn that unfolded in 2008 and continued in 2009 adversely affected economies and businesses around the world, including those in China. More recently, there has been concern over capital markets access and the solvency of certain European Union member states, and unrest in the Middle East and North Africa which has lead to higher oil prices and the slowing of the U.S. economy. Since we currently derive the significant majority of our revenues from customers in China, any prolonged slowdown in the Chinese economy may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways. For example, our customers 9 may decrease or delay the use of our services, while we may have difficulty expanding our customer base fast enough, or at all, to offset the impact of decreased use of our services by our existing customers. In addition, we could have difficulty collecting payments from our customers. Our financial performance and prospects could be affected by natural disasters or health epidemics. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by natural disasters or the outbreak of health epidemics. In March 2011, a magnitude 9.0 earthquake followed by a tsunami struck northeast Japan devastating much of the affected areas and causing widespread damage and casualties. Historically, our sales to Japan accounted 12.9 %, 9.9% and 7.7% of our revenue in each of 2008, 2009 and 2010. In addition, in May 2008, a magnitude 8.0 earthquake struck Sichuan Province and certain other parts of the PRC, causing severe damage and casualties. Moreover, certain countries and regions, including the PRC, have encountered incidents of the H5N1 strain of bird flu, or avian flu, as well as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, over the past six years and, more recently in 2009, the outbreak of influenza A (H1N1). We are unable to predict the effect, if any, that any future natural disasters and health and public security hazards may have on our business. Furthermore, such natural disasters and health and public security hazards may severely restrict the level of economic activity in affected areas, which may in turn materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. Our business and growth may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our senior management and key technical personnel or if such persons compete against us and our non-compete agreements cannot be enforced. Our future success is significantly dependent upon the continued service of our senior management and key technical personnel. The loss of any other members of our senior management or key technical personnel may materially and adversely affect our business and operations. For instance, it could jeopardize our relationships with customers and result in the loss of customer engagements. If we lose the service of any senior management member or key technical personnel, we may not be able to locate and obtain the service of qualified replacements, and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel, which could severely disrupt our business and growth. In addition, if any of our senior management or key technical personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers, know-how, key technical professionals and employees. Each of our senior management members and key technical personnel has entered into an employment agreement with us which contains non-competition provisions. However, if any dispute arises between any of our senior management members or key technical personnel and us, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully enforce these provisions. Our business will be negatively affected if we are not able to anticipate and keep pace with rapid changes in technology or if growth in the use of technology in business by our customers is not as rapid as in the past. The markets for IT services are characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, changing customer preferences and frequent new product and service introductions. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and implement technology services and solutions and anticipate and keep pace with rapid and 10 continuing changes in technology, industry standards and customer preferences. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely basis, and our service or solution offerings may not be successful in the marketplace. For example, if SAP-based ERP systems become obsolete or less accepted among end users, the demand for our services could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, services, solutions and technologies developed by our competitors may make our service or solution offerings uncompetitive, obsolete or force us to reduce prices, thereby adversely affecting our profit margins. Any one of these circumstances could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain and successfully complete customer engagements. Our growth prospects may be adversely affected if the market for our services and the industries that we service fail to grow as expected. Our operations are conducted in two service lines. Our enterprise application services business primarily focuses on SAP-based ERP services. SAP competes with international players such as Oracle Corporation, or Oracle, and local players such as UFIDA Software Co., Ltd. and Kingdee International in China. If SAP fails to compete effectively against these companies in China, or if the demand for ERP services in China experiences lower than expected growth, if at all, our business and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Our financial industry IT services business primarily services banks and insurance companies in China and Taiwan, where the financial services industry is extensively regulated. Accordingly, any significant regulatory changes in the industry may affect demand for our services. In addition, any adverse development in the financial services IT industry in China and Taiwan, whether due to a downturn in the economy or otherwise, may lead to reduced procurement budget of our financial institution customers, which may in turn lead to lower demand for our services, thereby adversely affecting our business and growth prospects. Most of our engagements with customers are singular in nature and do not necessarily provide for subsequent engagements. Our customers generally retain us on an engagement-by-engagement basis in connection with specific projects, rather than on a recurring basis under long-term contracts. Although a substantial majority of our revenue is generated from repeat business, which we define as revenue from a customer who also contributed to our revenue during the prior year, our engagements with our customers are typically for projects that are singular in nature. Therefore, we must seek to obtain new engagements when our current engagements are successfully completed or are terminated as well as maintain relationships with existing customers and secure new customers to expand our business. In addition, in order to expand our business, we may need to continue to expand our sales and marketing group, which would increase our expenses but may not necessarily result in a substantial increase in business. If we are unable to generate a substantial number of new engagements for projects on a continual basis, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Many contracts with our customers generally can be terminated without cause and with little or no notice or penalty, which could negatively impact our revenue and profitability. We often provide services to end customers through international IT service providers. In these cases, our contracts are signed with these service providers rather than with our end customers. A number of our contracts with international IT service providers can be terminated with or without cause, without any notice and without termination-related 11 penalties. However, historically, we have not experienced any terminations of any significant contracts. In addition, such contracts can be terminated immediately upon the termination of the international IT service providers’ contracts with the end customers under circumstances beyond our control. As a result, our revenue-generating engagements with many customers are not predictable and a high level of net revenues in one period is not necessarily predictive of continued high levels of net revenues in future periods. Our business depends on the decisions and actions of our customers, and a number of factors relating to our customers beyond our control might result in the termination of a project or the loss of a customer, including financial difficulties; a change in strategic priorities, resulting in a reduced level of IT spending; and a change in outsourcing strategy by moving more work to in-house IT departments or to our competitors. We are subject to certain risks relating to our fixed-price contracts. A significant portion of our customer contracts are on a fixed-price basis. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with estimating, planning and performing fixed-price, fixed-timeframe projects, and we bear the risk of cost overruns, completion delays and wage inflation in connection with these projects. If we fail to accurately estimate the resources and time required for a future project, or future rates of wage inflation, or if we fail to complete our contractual obligations within the contracted timeframe, our profitability may suffer. In addition, a number of our fixed-price contracts contain pricing terms that condition a portion of the payment of fees by the customer on our ability to meet defined performance goals, service levels and completion schedules set forth in the contracts. Our failure to meet these goals or customer expectations in such contracts may result in less profitable or unprofitable engagements. We may be liable to our customers for damages caused by a violation of intellectual property rights, the disclosure of other confidential information, system failures, errors or unsatisfactory performance of services, and our insurance policies may not be sufficient to cover these damages. We often have access to, and are required to collect and store, sensitive or confidential customer information. Many of our customer agreements do not limit our potential liability for breaches of confidentiality. If any person, including any of our employees, penetrates our network security or misappropriates sensitive or confidential customer information, we could be subject to significant liability from our customers or from our customers’ customers for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions or privacy laws. The protection of the intellectual property rights and other confidential information of our customers is particularly important for us since our operation is mainly based in China. China, as well as Chinese companies, have not traditionally enforced intellectual property protection to the same extent as more developed countries such as the United States. Despite measures we take to protect the intellectual property and other confidential information of our customers, unauthorized parties, including our employees and sub-contractors, may attempt to misappropriate certain intellectual property rights that are proprietary to our customers or otherwise breach our customers’ confidences. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer information or a violation of intellectual property rights may subject us to liabilities, whether through employee misconduct, breach of our computer systems, systems failure or otherwise, damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers. 12 Many of our contracts involve projects that are critical to the operations of our customers’ businesses, and provide benefits to our customers that may be difficult to quantify. Any failure in a customer’s system or any breach of security could result in a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for such failure. Furthermore, any errors by our employees in the performance of services for a customer, or poor execution of such services, could result in a customer terminating our engagement and seeking damages from us. Although we attempt to limit our contractual liability for consequential damages in rendering our services, these limitations on liability may be unenforceable in some cases, or may be insufficient to protect us from liability for damages. We do not have insurance coverage against potential losses or claims with respect to the IT services we provide. We do not maintain general liability insurance coverage, such as coverage for errors or omissions. While we believe that our practice is in line with the general practice in the IT services industry, there may be instances when we will have to internalize losses, damages and liabilities because of the lack of insurance coverage, which may in turn adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may face intellectual property infringement or indemnity claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend. If we fail to defend ourselves against such claims, we may lose significant intellectual property rights and may be unable to continue providing our existing services. It is critical that we use and develop our technology and services without infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties, including patents, copyrights, trade secrets and trademarks. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business. A successful infringement or indemnity claim against us, whether with or without merit, could, among others things, require us to pay substantial damages, develop non-infringing technology, re-brand our name or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and cease to make, license or use products that have infringed a third party’s intellectual property rights. Protracted litigation could also result in existing or potential clients deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our services until resolution of such litigation, or could require us to indemnify our clients against infringement claims in certain instances. In addition, we may be unaware of intellectual property registrations or applications relating to our services that may give rise to potential infringement claims against us. Parties making infringement or indemnity claims may be able to obtain an injunction to prevent us from delivering our services or using technology containing the allegedly infringing intellectual property. Any intellectual property litigation could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our financial results could suffer if we are unable to achieve or maintain the productivity and utilization of our professionals. Our profitability depends to a large extent on the productivity and utilization of our professionals. Productivity and utilization of our professionals are affected by a number of factors, including, among other things, the number and size of customer engagements, the timing of the commencement, completion and termination of engagements, our ability to transition our professionals efficiently from completed engagements to new engagements, the hiring of additional professionals, unanticipated changes in the scope of customer engagements, our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an 13 appropriate number of professionals, billing rates for our professionals and conditions affecting the industries in which we practice as well as general economic conditions. Any of the factors above may result in low productivity and utilization of our employees and materially and adversely affect our results of operations and employee morale. If we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate overall productivity and utilization of our professionals, our financial results could materially suffer. Any inability to manage our growth could disrupt our business, undermine our competitive position and reduce our profitability. We have grown significantly in recent years as a result of the expansion of our service offerings and the undertaking of major acquisitions both within China and elsewhere. The total number of our IT professionals increased from 1,757 as of December 31, 2008 to 3,162 as of December 31, 2010. We expect our growth to place significant strain on our management and other resources. Specifically, we will need to continue to develop and improve our operational, financial and other internal controls, both in China and elsewhere. Continued growth imposes challenges on us in: · recruiting, training and retaining sufficient skilled technical, marketing and management personnel; · adhering to our high quality and process execution standards; · preserving our culture, values and entrepreneurial environment; · developing and improving our internal administrative infrastructure, particularly our financial, operational, communications and other internal systems; and · maintaining high levels of customer satisfaction. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in managing such risks and our failure to do so may disrupt our business, undermine our competitive position and reduce our profitability. We are subject to financial and business risks on completed or future acquisitions. Since 2006, we have completed a number of strategic acquisitions to complement our business. We intend to continue to selectively acquire IT service companies to support our future growth. We are subject to a number of special financial and business risks in connection with our acquisition efforts, including among others, diversion of our management’s time, attention, and resources, decreased utilization during the integration process, loss of key acquired personnel, difficulties in integrating diverse corporate cultures, increased costs to improve or coordinate managerial, operational, financial, and administrative systems including dilutive issuances of equity securities, including convertible securities, assumption of legal liabilities, potential write-offs related to the impairment of goodwill, and additional conflicts of interest. In addition, we may be unable to manage an acquired entity profitably or successfully integrate its operations with our own. Any of these factors may adversely affect the growth of our business and results of operations. Although we conduct due diligence in connection with our acquisitions, we may not be aware of all the risks associated with acquired businesses. Any discovery of adverse information concerning the acquired businesses since the completion of the acquisitions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of 14 operations. While we may be entitled to seek indemnification in certain circumstances, successfully asserting indemnification or enforcing such indemnification could be costly and time-consuming or may not be successful at all. In addition, acquired businesses may have significant lower gross margins than our existing business, which may apply downward pressure on our overall gross margin in the future. Furthermore, acquired companies may not perform to our expectations for various reasons, including legislative or regulatory changes that affect the products or services in which the acquired companies specialize, and the loss of key customers and personnel. If we are unable to realize the benefits envisioned for such acquisitions, our overall profitability and growth plans may be adversely affected. We may be unsuccessful in identifying and acquiring suitable acquisition candidates, which could adversely affect our growth. Historically, we have expanded our business and acquired additional customers through strategic acquisitions. We intend to continue to selectively acquire high-quality IT services companies to support our future growth. However, we may not be able to identify suitable future acquisition candidates. Even if we identify suitable candidates, we may be unable to complete an acquisition on terms commercially acceptable to us. Moreover, competition for future acquisition opportunities in our markets could increase the price we pay for businesses we acquire and could reduce the number of potential acquisition targets. If we fail to identify appropriate candidates or complete desired acquisitions, we may not be able to implement our growth strategies effectively or efficiently. In addition, the expenses we incur in evaluating and pursuing acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Any of these factors may materially and adversely affect the growth of our business and results of operations. As a result of our significant growth and acquisitions in recent years, evaluating our business and prospects may be difficult and our past results may not be indicative of our future performance. Our business has grown and evolved significantly in recent years, both through organic growth and our strategic acquisitions. In light of the significance of our recent acquisitions, a period-to-period comparison of our historical operating results may not be meaningful. In addition, we may not be able to achieve a similar growth rate in future periods because of the continuing evolution of our business model. Therefore, you should not rely on our past results or historical rate of growth as an indication of our future performance. Any significant failure in our information technology systems could subject us to contractual liabilities to our customers, harm our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations. Our business and operations are highly dependent on the ability of our information technology systems to timely process various transactions across different markets and solutions. The proper functioning of our financial control, accounting, customer service and other data processing systems, together with the communication systems between our various subsidiaries and delivery centers is critical to our business and our competitiveness. Our business activities may be materially disrupted in the event of a partial or complete failure of any of these primary information technology or communication systems, which could be caused by, among other things, software malfunction, computer virus attacks, conversion 15 errors due to system upgrading, damage from fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry or other events beyond our control. We may be liable to our customers for breach of contract for interruptions in service. Due to the numerous variables surrounding system disruptions, the extent or amount of any potential liability cannot be predicted. Moreover, actual or perceived concerns that our systems may be vulnerable to disruptions or unauthorized entry may deter customers from using our services. Fluctuation in currencies may materially and adversely affect on our business. A significant portion of our revenues and assets and liabilities are denominated in currencies other than the Renminbi such as Japanese Yen, the New Taiwan dollar, and the U.S. dollar. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Japanese Yen and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, is based on rates set by the People's Bank of China. The PRC government allowed the Renminbi to appreciate by more than 20% against the U.S. dollars between July 2005 and July 2008. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation halted and the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. Since June 2010, the PRC government has allowed the Renminbi to appreciate slowly against the U.S. dollar again. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar in the future. We expect that a material portion of our revenues will continue to be generated in currencies other than the Renminbi, including Japanese Yen, the New Taiwan dollar, and the U.S. dollar, for the foreseeable future and that a substantial majority of our expenses, including personnel costs, as well as operating expenditures, will continue to be denominated in Renminbi. Consequently, the results of our operations may be adversely affected as Renminbi appreciates against the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies. In addition, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in U.S. dollar terms. As very limited types of hedging transactions are available in the PRC to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations, we have not entered into any such hedging transactions. Accordingly, we cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations and may incur net foreign exchange losses in the future. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currencies. See “Item 3. Key Information — D. Risk Factors — Risks Related to Doing Business in China — PRC regulations on currency exchange and foreign investment may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively and may delay or prevent us from making loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries.” We face risks and uncertainties relating to our international operations. Outside of the PRC, we have operations in a number of overseas locations such as Taiwan and Japan. We expect our net revenues derived from international markets to continue to account for a material portion of our revenues in the future. Our international operations carry additional financial and business risks, including greater difficulties in managing and staffing foreign operations, cultural differences that may result in lower utilization, currency fluctuations that could adversely affect our financial position and operating results, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, longer sales cycles, restrictions on the repatriation of earnings, difficulties in enforcing judgments across multiple jurisdictions, and potentially adverse tax 16 consequences, such as trapped foreign losses. If our revenues derived from international operations increase relative to our total net revenues, these factors could have a more pronounced effect on our results of operations. Our corporate actions are substantially influenced by our principal shareholders, who can cause us to take actions in ways with which you may not agree. As of May 31, 2011, our largest shareholders included our founders, Mr. Yiming Ma and Ms. Heidi Chou, each of whom owns approximately 12.0% and 11.6% of our outstanding ordinary shares and voting power. Mr. Yiming Ma and Ms. Heidi Chou are husband and wife. Mr. Yiming Ma and Ms. Heidi Chou acting individually or as a group could exert substantial influence over matters such as electing directors and approving acquisitions, mergers or other business combination transactions. Any concentration of ownership and voting power, including the concentration of ownership and voting power resulted from the relationship between Mr. Yiming Ma and Ms. Heidi Chou, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. If we grant employee stock options and other share-based compensation in the future, our net income could be materially and adversely affected. Share-based compensation is important to attract and retain key personnel. Under our 2006 Plan, we have a significant number of options to purchase ordinary shares outstanding as well as a significant number of option shares reserved for future issuance. We may adopt other equity incentive plans in the future. Issuances of options under such plans have in the past led to, and we expect in the future will continue to lead to, incurrence of share-based compensation expenses. We account for compensation costs for all stock options, including stock options granted to our directors and employees, using the fair value method and recognize the expense in our consolidated statement of operations in accordance with the accounting guidance of share-based payment under U.S. GAAP, which may materially and adversely affect our net income. Moreover, the additional expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of our current and future equity incentive plans. If we fail to implement and maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to accurately report our results of operations or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. In connection with the preparation and external audit of our consolidated financial statements, we and our independent registered public accounting firm identified one significant deficiency, as defined in the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board Standard AU Section 325, Communications About Control Deficiencies in an Audit of Financial Statements, or AU325, in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010. As defined in AU325, a "material weakness" is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis, and a "significant deficiency" is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial 17 reporting that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for the oversight of the company's financial reporting. The significant deficiency identified primarily relate to a lack of continuing professional training on U.S. GAAP and SEC regulation and rules for key accounting personnel. Neither we nor our independent registered public accounting firm undertook a comprehensive assessment of our internal control for purposes of identifying and reporting material weaknesses and other control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting as we and they will be required to do under Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. It is possible that, had we performed a formal assessment of our internal control over financial reporting or had our independent registered public accounting firm performed an audit of our internal control over financial reporting, additional control deficiencies may have been identified. Following the identification of the significant deficiencies, we have taken measures and plan to continue to take measures to remedy our control deficiencies. However, the implementation of these measures may not fully address the significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, and we cannot conclude that it has been fully remedied. As a public company in the United States, we are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we include a report from management on our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report on Form 20-F beginning with our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011. In addition, beginning at the same time, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management may conclude that our internal controls are not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may disagree and may decline to attest to our management's assessment or may issue an adverse opinion. Any of these possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our reporting processes, which could adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs. We may continue identifying control deficiencies as a result of the assessment process we will undertake in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We plan to remediate control deficiencies identified in time to meet the deadline imposed by the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, but we may be unable to do so. Our failure to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial reporting processes, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to, and we will, rely on exemptions from certain NYSE corporate governance standards applicable to U.S. issuers, including the requirements that a majority of an issuer’s directors consist of independent directors. This may afford less protection to our holders of ordinary shares and ADSs. Section 303A of the Corporate Governance Rules of the New York Stock Exchange requires listed companies to have, among other things, a majority of its board members be independent and a nominating and corporate governance committee consisting solely of independent directors. As a foreign private issuer, however, we are permitted to, and we will, follow home country practice in lieu of the above requirements. The corporate governance practice in our home country, the British Virgin Islands, does not require a majority of our 18 board to consist of independent directors or the implementation of a nominating and corporate governance committee. We may rely on the foreign private issuer exemption to the extent that a majority of our board of directors are not consisting of independent directors, where it is a possibility that fewer board members will be exercising independent judgment and the level of board oversight on the management of our company may decrease as a result. We may be subject to significant fines, penalties and/or prosecution because our Hong Kong operations prior to November 5, 2010 were not compliant with certain local registration and/or licensing requirements as well as other Hong Kong laws and regulations. In 2006, we initially acquired our Hong Kong operations, or Our Previous HK Operations, through Camelot BVI and Triumph, which are companies limited by shares incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and which became the two partners of Our Previous HK Operations. Under applicable Hong Kong law, Camelot BVI and Triumph were deemed to have established a place of business and carried on a business in Hong Kong since their acquisitions of Our Previous HK Operations. Therefore, both were required to obtain business registration certificates from the Business Registration Office of the Hong Kong government and to be registered with the Companies Registry of the Hong Kong government within one month of their acquisitions of Our Previous HK Operations. However, neither Camelot BVI nor Triumph obtained such certificates nor did they undertake such registration. Accordingly, Our Previous HK Operations and, in turn, Camelot BVI and Triumph were not in compliance with the registration and/or licensing requirements in Hong Kong. As a result of such non-compliance, each of Camelot BVI and Triumph, as well as the officers or agents of each of Camelot BVI and Triumph who authorized such non-compliance, face a maximum one-time fine of HK$53,000 (US$6,800) and a daily fine of HK$700 (US$90.3) for each day of non-compliance, or an aggregate total of approximately US$264,000 up to November 5, 2010. As of June 3, 2011, there has been no prosecution initiated by the relevant authorities. We are unable to reasonably estimate the actual amount that we may have to pay if the authorities were to become aware of the non-compliance and were to commence proceedings. In addition, as an employer, Our Previous HK Operations were required to comply with legal obligations with regard to mandatory provident funds and compensation insurance for its employees under the Mandatory Provident Fund Schemes Ordinance (Cap. 485), or MPFSO, and under the Employees’ Compensation Ordinance (Cap. 282), or ECO, of the Hong Kong laws, respectively. Our Previous HK Operations were not compliant with certain provisions of the MPFSO for a duration of approximately 10 months between 2006 and 2007 by failing to ensure, in relation to one employee at the time that such employee becomes a member of a registered mandatory provident fund scheme and to make and deduct the respective employer and employee mandatory provident fund contributions in a total amount of HK$20,000 to the employee’s account of such scheme. Our Previous Hong Kong Operations were also not compliant with certain provisions of the ECO by failing to take out worker’s compensation insurance in relation to the said one employee. As a result of the foregoing, Our Previous HK Operations may be subject to fines, penalties and/or prosecutions under local laws and regulations. In recent enforcement cases under the MPFSO, defaulting employer(s) have been ordered to repay all unpaid contributions, and a surcharge or a penalty of the higher of HK$5,000 or 5% of the total unpaid amount. Our Previous HK Operations have made up these default contributions into the relevant employee’s mandatory provident fund scheme account and has been in compliance with its legal obligations under the MPFSO since October 2007. Furthermore, 19 with respect to the failure to take out compensation insurance, any fines, penalties and/or prosecutions to which our Hong Kong operations may be subject, may include, but not be limited to, facing a maximum fine of HK$100,000 (US$13,000). In June, 2010, we transferred all of our shares in Our Previous HK operations to a third party individuals and as a result of such transfer, we no long have any shareholder rights, duties or liabilities in Our Previous HK operations. Since November 5, 2010, our business in Hong Kong has been conducted through Kings Consulting Services Ltd, or Kings, a company which is limited by shares and incorporated in Hong Kong and which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Camelot BVI. The business contracts between our customers and Our Previous HK Operations have already been transferred to Kings by way of signing the supplemental agreements with the relevant customers. All new business contracts with our customers which have been entered into after November 5, 2010 have been entered into with Kings. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could materially and adversely affect the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our services and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. A significant majority of our operations are conducted in China and a significant majority of our net revenues are derived from customers in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. Since the late 1970s, the PRC government has been reforming the economic system in China. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth. However, we cannot predict the future direction of economic reforms or the effects such measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. Furthermore, while the economy of China has experienced significant growth in the past twenty years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. Any adverse change in the economic conditions in China, in policies of the PRC government or in laws and regulations in China, could materially and adversely affect the overall economic growth of China and market demand for our IT services. Such changes could adversely affect our businesses, lead to reduction in demand for our services and adversely affect our results of operations. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could materially and adversely affect us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our subsidiaries in China. Our subsidiaries in China are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises and Sino-foreign equity joint ventures. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have retroactive effects. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until sometime 20 after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. PRC regulations on currency exchange and foreign investment may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively and may delay or prevent us from making loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated to foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. As an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiaries, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries. However, any loans from our offshore holding company to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC regulations. For example, loans by us to our subsidiaries in China, which are foreign-invested enterprises, to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits, usually the balance between the total investment amount and the registered capital contribution, and must be registered with the SAFE or its local counterparts. We may also decide to finance our subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM, or its local counterparts. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future capital contributions by us to our subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such approvals, our ability to capitalize our PRC operations may be adversely affected, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. These limitations on the free flow of funds between us and our PRC companies could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and reallocate funds among our PRC companies on a timely basis. Moreover, according to a circular jointly issued by the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation on September 19, 2008, if the debt-to-equity ratio of a non-financial enterprise exceeds two-to-one, the interest expenses accrued from the exceeded debt shall not be deducted before taxation unless the shareholder loan in question can meet certain conditions. Although there is uncertainty at this time as to how the circular will be interpreted and implemented, such circular may have a negative impact on our PRC subsidiaries’ abilities to obtain loans from its shareholders. The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments or financial incentives currently available to us in the PRC or imposition of any additional PRC taxes on us could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. China passed a new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementing rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law significantly curtails tax incentives granted to foreign-invested enterprises under the Foreign 21 Invested Enterprise Income Tax Law. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, however, (i) reduces the statutory rate of enterprise income tax from 33% to 25%, (ii) permits companies established before March 16, 2007 to continue to enjoy their existing tax incentives, adjusted by certain transitional phase-out rules promulgated by State Council on December 26, 2007, and (iii) introduces new tax incentives, subject to various qualification criteria. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementing rules permit certain “high-technology enterprises” which hold independent ownership of core intellectual property and simultaneously meet a list of other criteria, financial or non-financial, as stipulated in the implementation rules of the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, to enjoy a reduced 15% enterprise income tax rate subject to certain new qualification criteria. Certain of our subsidiaries have been recognized by the local provincial level Municipal Science and Technology Commission, Finance Bureau, and State and Local Tax Bureaus as “high and new technology enterprises” and were further registered with the local tax authorities to be eligible to the reduced 15% enterprise income tax rate. The continued qualification of a “high and new technology enterprise” will be subject to annual evaluation and a three-year review by the relevant government authority in China. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries were entitled to preferential tax treatments due to other qualifications obtained from local governmental authorities such as "Manufacturing Foreign-Invested Enterprise" and "Software Enterprise". Preferential tax treatments granted to our subsidiaries by the local governmental authorities are subject to review and may be adjusted or revoked at any time. The discontinuation of any preferential tax treatments currently available to us may cause our effective tax rate to increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current effective tax rate in the future. We have also in the past been granted certain governmental financial subsidies. Government agencies may decide to reduce or eliminate subsidies at any time. We cannot assure you of the continued availability of the government incentives and subsidies currently enjoyed by some of our PRC subsidiaries. The discontinuation of these governmental incentives and subsidies could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our global income and the dividends we may receive from our PRC subsidiaries may be subject to PRC tax under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementing rules, both became effective from January 1, 2008, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and will be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its global income. The implementation rules define the term “de facto management bodies” as “establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. of an enterprise.” The State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Offshore Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or Circular 82, on April 22, 2009. Circular 82 provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a Chinese-controlled offshore- 22 incorporated enterprise is located in China. Although Circular 82 only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises, not those controlled by PRC individuals or foreigners, like our company, the determining criteria set forth in Circular 82 may reflect the State Administration of Taxation’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises or individuals. While we do not believe we should be considered a resident enterprise, if the PRC authorities were to subsequently determine that we should be so treated, a 25% enterprise income tax on our global income could significantly increase our tax burden and materially and adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. Pursuant to the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, dividends generated after January 1, 2008 and payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its foreign investors will be subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. We are a British Virgin Islands holding company and substantially all of our income may come from dividends from our PRC subsidiaries. To the extent these dividends are subject to withholding tax, the amount of fund available to us to meet our cash requirements, including the payment of dividends to our shareholders and ADS holders, will be reduced. In addition, because there remains uncertainty regarding the interpretation and implementation of the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules, it is uncertain whether, if we are regarded as a PRC resident enterprise, dividends we pay with respect to our ordinary shares or ADSs, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. If we are required under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our non-PRC corporate shareholders and ADS holders, or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, your investment in our ADSs or ordinary shares may be materially and adversely affected. We may rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our operating subsidiaries to fund cash and financing requirements, and limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we may rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our operating subsidiaries for our cash and financing requirements, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, service any debt we may incur and pay our operating expenses. If any of our operating subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Furthermore, relevant PRC laws and regulations permit payments of dividends by our operating subsidiaries only out of their respective retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, we have on occasion failed to make certain PRC government filings on a timely basis in connection with our acquisitions, which may also restrict the ability of these acquired entities to make dividend payments to our holding company. Under PRC laws and regulations, our operating subsidiaries are required to set aside 10% of their respective after-tax profits each year to fund a statutory surplus reserve. This 23 reserve is not distributable as dividends until the accumulated amount of such reserve has exceeded 50% of their respective registered capital. As a result of these PRC laws and regulations, our operating subsidiaries are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their respective net assets to us in the form of dividends. Limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. The regulation of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, establishes more complex procedures for acquisitions conducted by non-PRC investors which could make it more difficult to pursue growth through acquisitions. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, namely, the MOFCOM, the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council, or SASAC, the State Administration of Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or SAIC, the CSRC and SAFE, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006 and amended on June 22, 2009. This M&A Rule purports, among other things, to require offshore special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, formed for overseas listing purposes through acquisitions of PRC domestic companies and directly or indirectly controlled by PRC companies or individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to publicly listing their securities on a non-PRC stock exchange. The M&A Rule also established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by non-PRC investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the MOFCOM be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a non-PRC investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. We have grown our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses, and we may continue to do so in the future. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the MOFCOM or its local counterparts, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. Recent PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents and employee stock options granted by overseas-listed companies may increase our administrative burden, restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity or otherwise adversely affect the implementation of our acquisition strategy. SAFE promulgated regulations that require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. Under the SAFE regulations, PRC residents who make, or have previously made, direct or indirect investments in offshore companies, will be required to register those investments. In addition, any PRC resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of an offshore company is required to update such registration with the local branch of SAFE in the event of any material change involving its round-trip investment, any capital variation, such as an increase or decrease in capital, any transfer or swap of shares, merger, divestiture, long-term equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest. If any PRC shareholder fails to make the required SAFE registration or file or update the registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore parent company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or 24 liquidation, to their offshore parent company, and the offshore parent company may also be prohibited from injecting additional capital into their PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. We cannot provide any assurances that all of our future shareholders who are PRC residents will make or obtain the applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends or obtain foreign-exchange-dominated loans to our company. As it is uncertain how the SAFE regulations will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the SAFE regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. On March 28, 2007, SAFE adopted the Application Procedures of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Companies, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, PRC citizens who are granted stock options by an overseas publicly-listed company are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. Under our 2006 Plan, we have a significant number of options to purchase ordinary shares outstanding as well as a significant number of option shares reserved for future issuance. We and our PRC employees and directors who have been granted stock options will be subject to the Stock Option Rule when our company becomes an overseas publicly-listed company. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. Failure to comply with such provisions may also prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our employees, which is a significant component of the compensation of many of our PRC employees. In that case, our business operations may be materially and adversely affected. Certain of our leased property interests may be defective and we may be forced to relocate our operations from the properties affected by such defects, which could cause a significant disruption to our business. Certain of our leased properties in China, all of which are used as offices, contain defects in their respective leasehold interests. Such defects include (i) the lack of evidence showing the landlord’s proper title or right to lease the property and/or (ii) the landlord’s failure to duly register the respective lease with the relevant PRC authority. According to relevant PRC laws, if a tenant lacks evidence of the landlord’s title or right to lease the property, the relevant lease agreement may not be valid or enforceable, and subject to challenge by third parties. Similarly, although the failure to register a lease agreement will not affect its effectiveness between the tenant and the landlord, such lease agreement may be 25 subject to challenge by, and unenforceable against, a bona fide third party who leases the same property from the landlord and has duly registered the lease with the relevant PRC authority. The landlord and the tenant may also be subject to administrative fines for failures to register the relevant lease. We have initiated steps to cause our landlords to procure valid evidence as to the title or right to lease, as well as to complete the lease registration procedures. However, we cannot assure you that such defects will be cured in a timely manner or at all. Our business may be interrupted and additional relocation costs may be incurred if we are required to relocate our operations affected by these defects. Moreover, if our lease agreements are challenged by third parties, it could result in a diversion of our management’s attention and cause us to incur costs associated with defending these actions, even if such challenges are ultimately determined in our favor. Changes to the political status and international relations of Taiwan may affect our business, operations and financial conditions. Several of our subsidiaries are incorporated in Taiwan. Taiwan has a unique international political status given that Taiwan and the Chinese mainland have been separately governed since 1949. Differences in the interpretation of the status of Taiwan between Taiwan and the PRC have given rise to continuous political debates which in turn have, from time to time, affected the political status of Taiwan. Although significant economic and cultural relations between Taiwan and the PRC have been established during recent years, the PRC has refused to renounce the possibility that it may in the future forcefully gain control of Taiwan. Changes in the relations between Taiwan and the PRC may have an adverse effect on Taiwan’s economy. We cannot be assured that present tensions will not be exacerbated, which could have an adverse impact on Taiwan’s economy and, in turn, an adverse impact, our business, operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market price for our ADSs is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Since our ADSs became listed on the New York Stock Exchange on July 20, 2010 up to June 3, 2011, the closing prices of our ADSs have ranged from US$10.65 to US$26.73 per ADS, and the last reported trading price on June 3, 2011 was US$16.60 per ADS. The price of our ADSs may continue to fluctuate in response to various factors, which include the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · announcements by us or our competitors of new services, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · technological breakthroughs in the IT services industry; · potential litigation or administrative investigations; · addition or departure of key personnel; · fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and Renminbi; 26 · release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; · sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs; · general market conditions or other developments affecting us or our industry; and · negative market perception and media coverage of our company or other companies in the same or similar industry with us. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. We may need additional capital and may not be able to raise funds on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, any funding through the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders and any funding through indebtedness could restrict our operations. We may require additional cash resources to finance our continued growth or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. The amount and timing of such additional financing needs will vary principally depending on the timing of new product and service launches, investments and/or acquisitions, and the amount of cash flow from our operations. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities or securities convertible into our ordinary shares could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. Our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: · investors’ perception of, and demand for, securities of IT service solutions providers; · conditions of the U.S. and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; · our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; · governmental regulations of foreign investment in China or other jurisdictions; · economic, political and other conditions in China and other jurisdictions; and · PRC governmental policies relating to foreign currency borrowings. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all, especially if the current extreme volatilities in the capital markets worldwide continue or worsen as a result of recent global financial services and economic crises. If we fail to raise additional funds, we may need to sell debt or additional equity securities or to reduce our growth to a level that can be supported by our cash flow. Without additional capital, we may not be able to: · further develop or enhance our customer base; 27 · acquire necessary technologies, products or businesses; · expand operations in China and elsewhere; · hire, train and retain employees; · market our software solutions, services and products; or · respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated capital requirements. Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs in the public market or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. All ADSs sold in our initial public offering in July 2010 and follow-on public offering in December 2010 are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, except to the extent acquired by persons deemed to be our “affiliates.” Shares owned by our founders, Mr. Yiming Ma and Ms. Heidi Chou, are also available for sale, subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. We may also have shares issued upon exercise of the options that are granted to our directors and employees. To the extent these shares are sold into the market, the market price of our ADSs could decline. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights of our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. The minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting will be seven days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares in order to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholder meeting. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. The depositary for our ADSs will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, except in limited circumstances, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, if you do not vote, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at our shareholders’ meetings unless: · we have failed to timely provide the depositary with notice of meeting and related voting materials; 28 · we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; · we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; · a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders; or · the voting at the meeting is to be made on a show of hands. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, except under the circumstances described above. This may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. Our company may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes, which could subject United States investors in our ADSs or ordinary shares to adverse tax consequences. Based upon the composition of our income and assets and our operations, we do not believe that we were classified as a PFIC, for United States federal income tax purpose, for the taxable year ended December 31, 2010. Although we do not currently expect that our assets or activities will change in a manner that would cause us to become a PFIC for our current taxable year or the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance our business plans will not change in a manner that will affect our PFIC status. In addition, because the value of our assets for purposes of the PFIC test will generally be determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares, fluctuations in the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares may cause us to become a PFIC for the current taxable year or future taxable years. Because there are uncertainties in the application of the relevant rules and PFIC status is a fact-intensive determination made on an annual basis, no assurance can be given that we are not or will not become classified as a PFIC. If we were to be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year, a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Item 10.E. Taxation — Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations”) would be subject to special rules generally intended to reduce or eliminate any benefits from the deferral of United States federal income tax that a U.S. Holder could derive from investing in a non-United States corporation that does not distribute all of its earnings on a current basis. Further, if we are classified as a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. Holder holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, we generally will continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which such U.S. Holder holds our ADSs or ordinary shares. For more information, see the section entitled “Item 10.E. Taxation — Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” Shareholders are urged to consult their tax advisors concerning the United States federal income tax consequences of an investment in our ADSs or ordinary shares if we are classified as a PFIC for our current or subsequent taxable years. You may not receive distributions on ordinary shares or any value for them if it is unlawful or impractical to make them available to you. Subject to the terms and conditions of the deposit agreement, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian 29 receives on ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs, in which case it may determine not to make such a distribution. Neither we nor the depositary have any obligation to register ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities subject to such distribution under U.S. securities laws. Neither we nor the depositary have any obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distribution we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is unlawful or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may materially and adversely affect the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and you will not receive such distribution. 30 You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the British Virgin Islands and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, a majority of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the British Virgin Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. 