Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Related to our Business and Structure—Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect our ability to and the way in which we raise additional capital. As a BDC, we will need to raise additional capital, which will expose us to risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage.” Codes of Ethics We and OFS Advisor have each adopted a code of ethics pursuant to Rule 17j-1 under the 1940 Act that establishes procedures for personal investments and restricts certain personal securities transactions. Personnel subject to each code may invest in securities for their personal investment accounts, including securities that may be purchased or held by us, so long as such investments are made in accordance with the code’s requirements. Our code of ethics is available, free of charge, on our website at www.ofscapital.com. You may also read and copy the code of ethics at the SEC’s Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. In addition, the code of ethics is attached as an exhibit to pre-effective amendment no. 3 to the registration statement on Form N-2 filed on March 17, 2011 and is available on the EDGAR Database on the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. You may also obtain copies of the code of ethics, after paying a duplicating fee, by electronic request at the following e-mail address: publicinfo@sec.gov, or by writing the SEC’s Public Reference Section, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Proxy Voting Policies and Procedures We have delegated our proxy voting responsibility to OFS Advisor. The proxy voting policies and procedures of OFS Advisor are set out below. The guidelines are reviewed periodically by OFS Advisor and our directors who are not “interested persons,” and, accordingly, are subject to change. For purposes of these proxy voting policies and procedures described below, “we,” “our” and “us” refer to OFS Advisor. 23 Introduction As an investment adviser registered under the Advisers Act, we have a fiduciary duty to act solely in the best interests of our clients. As part of this duty, we recognize that we must vote client securities in a timely manner free of conflicts of interest and in the best interests of our clients. These policies and procedures for voting proxies for our investment advisory clients are intended to comply with Section 206 of, and Rule 206(4)-6 under, the Advisers Act. Proxy Policies We vote proxies relating to our portfolio securities in what we perceive to be the best interest of our clients. We review on a case-by-case basis each proposal submitted to a shareholder vote to determine its effect on the portfolio securities held by our clients. In most cases we will vote in favor of proposals that we believe are likely to increase the economic value of the underlying portfolio securities held by our clients. Although we will generally vote against proposals that may have a negative effect on our clients’ portfolio securities, we may vote for such a proposal if there exist compelling long-term reasons to do so. Our proxy voting decisions are made by those senior officers who are responsible for monitoring each of our clients’ investments. To ensure that our vote is not the product of a conflict of interest, we require that (1) anyone involved in the decision-making process disclose to our chief compliance officer any potential conflict that he or she is aware of and any contact that he or she has had with any interested party regarding a proxy vote; and (2) employees involved in the decision-making process or vote administration are prohibited from revealing how we intend to vote on a proposal in order to reduce any attempted influence from interested parties. Where conflicts of interest may be present, we will disclose such conflicts to our client, including with respect to OFS Capital, those directors who are not interested persons and we may request guidance from such persons on how to vote such proxies for their account. Proxy Voting Records You may obtain information about how we voted proxies for OFS Capital, free of charge, by making a written request for proxy voting information to: OFS Capital Corporation, 2850 West Golf Road, 5th Floor, Rolling Meadows, Illinois 60008, Attention: Investor Relations, or by calling OFS Capital Corporation at (847) 734-2060. The SEC also maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov that contains such information. Privacy Principles We are committed to maintaining the privacy of our shareholders and to safeguarding their nonpublic personal information. The following information is provided to help you understand what personal information we collect, how we protect that information and why, in certain cases, we may share information with select other parties. Generally, we do not receive any nonpublic personal information relating to our shareholders, although certain nonpublic personal information of our shareholders may become available to us. We do not disclose any nonpublic personal information about our shareholders or former shareholders to anyone, except as permitted by law or as is necessary in order to service shareholder accounts (for example, to a transfer agent or third-party administrator). We restrict access to nonpublic personal information about our shareholders to employees of OFS Advisor and its affiliates with a legitimate business need for the information. We maintain physical, electronic and procedural safeguards designed to protect the nonpublic personal information of our shareholders. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the NASDAQ Global Select Market Corporate Governance Regulations The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) imposes a wide variety of regulatory requirements on publicly-held companies and their insiders. Many of these requirements affect us. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act has required us to review our policies and procedures to determine whether we comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder. We will continue to monitor our compliance with all future regulations that are adopted under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and will take actions necessary to ensure that we are in compliance therewith. In addition, The NASDAQ Global Select Market has adopted various corporate governance requirements as part of its listing standards. We believe we are in compliance with such corporate governance listing standards. We will continue to monitor our compliance with all future listing standards and will take actions necessary to ensure that we are in compliance therewith. 24 Small Business Investment Company Regulations As noted above, on December 4, 2013, we acquired the remaining general and limited partnership interests in SBIC I LP, making it a wholly-owned subsidiary. SBIC I LP is an SBIC and must maintain compliance with SBA regulations. SBICs are designed to stimulate the flow of private equity capital to eligible small businesses. Under SBA regulations, SBICs may make loans to eligible small businesses and invest in the equity securities of small businesses. The SBIC license allows SBIC I LP to receive SBA-guaranteed debenture funding, subject to the issuance of a leverage commitment by the SBA and other customary procedures. SBA-guaranteed debentures are non-recourse, interest only debentures with interest payable semi-annually and have a ten year maturity. The principal amount of SBA-guaranteed debentures is not required to be paid prior to maturity but may be prepaid without penalty twice each year on certain dates. The interest rate of SBA-guaranteed debentures is fixed at the time of issuance at a market-driven spread over U.S. Treasury Notes with 10-year maturities. SBA regulations currently limit the amount that an SBIC may borrow to up to a maximum of $150 million when it has at least $75 million in regulatory capital, receives a leverage commitment from the SBA and has been through an examination by the SBA subsequent to licensing. For two or more SBICs under common control, the maximum amount of outstanding SBA-provided leverage cannot exceed $225 million. A proposed bill in the U.S. Senate, the Expanding Access to Capital for Entrepreneurial Act, or Senate Bill 511, would increase the total SBIC leverage capacity for affiliated SBIC funds from $225 million to $350 million. However, the ultimate form and likely outcome of such legislation or any similar legislation cannot be predicted. The investments of an SBIC are limited to loans to and equity securities of eligible small businesses. Under present SBA regulations, eligible small businesses generally include businesses that (together with their affiliates) have a tangible net worth not exceeding $18 million and have average annual net income after U.S. federal income taxes not exceeding $6 million (average net income to be computed without benefit of any carryover loss) for the two most recent fiscal years. In addition, an SBIC must devote 25% of its investment activity to “smaller concerns,” as defined by the SBA. A smaller concern generally includes businesses that have a tangible net worth not exceeding $6 million and have average annual net income after U.S. federal income taxes not exceeding $2 million (average net income to be computed without benefit of any net carryover loss) for the two most recent fiscal years. The SBA prohibits an SBIC from providing funds to small businesses for certain purposes, such as relending, real estate or investing in companies outside of the United States, and providing funds to businesses engaged in a few prohibited industries and to certain “passive” (i.e., non-operating) companies. In addition, without prior SBA approval, an SBIC may not invest an amount equal to more than approximately 30% of the SBIC’s regulatory capital in any one company and its affiliates. The SBA requires that SBICs invest idle funds in accordance with SBA regulations. SBA regulations also include restrictions on a “change of control” or other transfers of limited partnership interests in an SBIC. In addition, SBIC I LP may also be limited in its ability to make distributions to us if it does not have sufficient accumulated net profit, in accordance with SBA regulations. SBIC I LP is subject to regulation and oversight by the SBA, including requirements with respect to maintaining certain minimum financial ratios and other covenants. Receipt of the SBIC license and an SBA leverage commitment does not assure that SBIC I LP will receive SBA guaranteed debenture funding, and such funding is dependent upon SBIC I LP’s continuing to be in compliance with SBA regulations and policies. The SBA, as a creditor, will have a superior claim to the SBIC I LP’s assets over our shareholders in the event that SBIC I LP is liquidated or the SBA exercises its remedies under the SBA debentures issued by SBIC I LP in the event of a default. Exemptive Relief On November 26, 2013, we received an exemptive order which allows us to exclude SBA guaranteed indebtedness from the definition of senior securities in our statutory 200% asset coverage ratio. Other We are subject to periodic examination by the SEC for compliance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, and the 1940 Act. We are required to provide and maintain a bond issued by a reputable fidelity insurance company to protect us against larceny and embezzlement. Furthermore, as a BDC, we are prohibited from protecting any director or officer against any liability to OFS Capital or our shareholders arising from willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard of the duties involved in the conduct of such person’s office. 25 We and OFS Advisor each have adopted and implemented written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of relevant federal securities laws, will review these policies and procedures annually for their adequacy and the effectiveness of their implementation, and have designated a chief compliance officer to be responsible for administering the policies and procedures. We may be prohibited under the 1940 Act from knowingly participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our board of directors who are not interested persons and, in some cases, prior approval by the SEC. The SEC has interpreted the BDC prohibition on transactions with affiliates to prohibit all “joint transactions” between entities that share a common investment adviser. In connection with our election to be regulated as a BDC, we will not be permitted to co-invest with other funds managed by OFSAM or one of its affiliates in certain types of negotiated investment transactions unless we receive exemptive relief from the SEC permitting us to do so. Moreover, we may be limited in our ability to make follow-on investments or liquidate our existing equity investments in such companies. Although we intend to apply to the SEC for exemptive relief to permit such co-investment and liquidity transactions, subject to certain conditions, we cannot be certain that our application for such relief will be granted or what conditions will be placed on such relief. The staff of the SEC has granted no-action relief permitting purchases of a single class of privately placed securities provided that the adviser negotiates no term other than price and certain other conditions are met. As a result, we only expect to co-invest on a concurrent basis with other funds advised by OFS Advisor when each of us will own the same securities of the issuer and when no term is negotiated other than price. Any such investment would be made, subject to compliance with existing regulatory guidance, applicable regulations and OFS Advisor’s allocation policy. If opportunities arise that would otherwise be appropriate for us and for another fund advised by OFS Advisor to invest in different securities of the same issuer, OFS Advisor will need to decide which fund will proceed with the investment. The decision by OFS Advisor to allocate an opportunity to another entity could cause us to forego an investment opportunity that we otherwise would have made. Moreover, except in certain circumstances, we will be unable to invest in any issuer in which another fund advised by OFS Advisor has previously invested. Our internet address is www.ofscapital.com. We make available free of charge on our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statement and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Material u.s. Federal income tax considerations Election to be Taxed as a RIC We have elected to be treated as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. As a RIC, we generally do not have to pay corporate-level federal income taxes on any income that we distribute to our shareholders from our tax earnings and profits. To maintain our qualification as a RIC, we must, among other things, meet certain source-of-income and asset diversification requirements, as described below. In addition, in order to maintain RIC tax treatment, we must distribute to our shareholders, for each taxable year, at least 90% of our “investment company taxable income,” which is generally our net ordinary income plus the excess, if any, of realized net short-term capital gains over realized net long-term capital losses (the “Annual Distribution Requirement”). Taxation as a RIC If we: •maintain our qualification as a RIC; and •satisfy the Annual Distribution Requirement; then we will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the portion of our income we distribute (or are deemed to distribute) to shareholders. We will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the regular corporate rates on any income or capital gain not distributed (or deemed distributed) to our shareholders. We will be subject to a 4% nondeductible federal excise tax on certain undistributed income unless we distribute in a timely manner an amount at least equal to the sum of (1) 98% of our net ordinary income for each calendar year, (2) 98.2% of our capital gain net income (both long-term and short-term) for the one-year period ending October 31 in that calendar year (or, if we have a taxable year that ends on November 30 or December 31 and so elect, for our taxable year) and (3) any income recognized, but not distributed, in preceding years and on which we paid no federal income tax, or the Excise Tax Avoidance Requirement. We may choose to retain a portion of our ordinary income and/or capital gain net income in any year and pay the 4% U.S. federal excise tax on the retained amounts. 26 In order to maintain our qualification as a RIC for federal income tax purposes, we must, among other things: •continue to qualify as a BDC under the 1940 Act at all times during each taxable year; •derive in each taxable year at least 90% of our gross income from dividends, interest, certain payments with respect to loans of stock and securities, gains from the sale or other disposition of stock, securities, or foreign currencies and other income (including but not limited to gains from options, futures or forward contracts) derived with respect to our business of investing in such stock, securities or currencies, and net income derived from interests in “qualified publicly traded partnerships,” as such term is defined in the Code, or the 90% Income Test; and •diversify our holdings so that at the end of each quarter of the taxable year: •at least 50% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities, securities of other RICs, and other securities, with such other securities limited, in respect of any one issuer, to an amount not greater than 5% of the value of our assets and 10% of the outstanding voting securities of such issuer; and •no more than 25% of the value of our assets is invested in the securities, other than U.S. government securities or securities of other RICs, of one issuer, of two or more issuers that we control (as determined under applicable tax rules) and that are engaged in the same, similar or related trades or businesses or of one or more qualified publicly traded partnerships (the “Diversification Tests”). We may invest in partnerships, including qualified publicly traded partnerships, which may result in our being subject to state, local or foreign income, franchise or withholding liabilities. For federal income tax purposes, we may be required to recognize taxable income in circumstances in which we do not receive a corresponding payment in cash. For example, if we hold debt obligations that are treated under applicable tax rules as having OID, we must include in income each year a portion of the OID that accrues over the life of the obligation, regardless of whether cash representing such income is received by us in the same taxable year. We may also have to include in income other amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as deferred loan origination fees that are paid after origination of the loan or are paid in non-cash compensation such as warrants or stock. Certain consolidated subsidiaries of the Company are subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes. These taxable entities are not consolidated with the Company for income tax purposes and may generate income tax liabilities or assets from temporary differences in the recognition of items for financial reporting and income tax purposes at the subsidiaries. We anticipate that a portion of our income may constitute OID or other income required to be included in taxable income prior to receipt of cash. Because any OID or other amounts accrued will be included in our investment company taxable income for the year of the accrual, we may be required to make a distribution to our shareholders in order to satisfy the Annual Distribution Requirement, even though we will not have received any corresponding cash amount. As a result, we may have difficulty meeting the annual distribution requirement necessary to obtain and maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code. We may have to sell some of our investments at times and/or at prices we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or forgo new investment opportunities for this purpose. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. We are authorized to borrow funds and to sell assets in order to satisfy distribution requirements. However, under the 1940 Act, we are not permitted to make distributions to our shareholders while our debt obligations and other senior securities are outstanding unless certain “asset coverage” tests are met. See “Regulation—Senior Securities.” Moreover, our ability to dispose of assets to meet our distribution requirements may be limited by (1) the illiquid nature of our portfolio and/or (2) other requirements relating to our status as a RIC, including the Diversification Tests. If we dispose of assets in order to meet the Annual Distribution Requirement or the Excise Tax Avoidance Requirement, we may make such dispositions at times that, from an investment standpoint, are not advantageous. Certain of our investment practices may be subject to special and complex federal income tax provisions that may, among other things, (1) treat dividends that would otherwise qualify for the dividends received deduction or constitute qualified dividend income as ineligible for such treatment, (2) disallow, suspend or otherwise limit the allowance of certain losses or deductions, (3) convert lower-taxed long-term capital gain into higher-taxed short-term capital gain or ordinary income, (4) convert an ordinary loss or a deduction into a capital loss (the deductibility of which is more limited), (5) cause us to recognize income or gain without receipt of a corresponding distribution of cash, (6) adversely affect the time as to when a purchase or sale of stock or securities is deemed to occur, (7) adversely alter the characterization of certain complex financial transactions and (8) produce income that will not be qualifying income for purposes of the 90% Income Test. We will monitor our transactions and may make certain tax elections to mitigate the potential adverse effect of these provisions, but there can be no assurance that any adverse effects of these provisions will be mitigated. 27 If we purchase shares in a “passive foreign investment company” (a “PFIC”), we may be subject to federal income tax on its allocable share of a portion of any “excess distribution” received on, or any gain from the disposition of, such shares even if our allocable share of such income is distributed as a taxable dividend to its shareholders. Additional charges in the nature of interest generally will be imposed on us in respect of deferred taxes arising from any such excess distribution or gain. If we invest in a PFIC and elect to treat the PFIC as a “qualified electing fund” under the Code (a “QEF”), in lieu of the foregoing requirements, we will be required to include in income each year our proportionate share of the ordinary earnings and net capital gain of the QEF, even if such income is not distributed by the QEF. Alternatively, we may be able to elect to mark-to-market at the end of each taxable year our shares in a PFIC; in this case, we will recognize as ordinary income our allocable share of any increase in the value of such shares, and as ordinary loss our allocable share of any decrease in such value to the extent that any such decrease does not exceed prior increases included in its income. Under either election, we may be required to recognize in a year income in excess of distributions from PFICs and proceeds from dispositions of PFIC stock during that year, and such income will nevertheless be subject to the Annual Distribution Requirement and will be taken into account for purposes of the 4% excise tax. Some of the income and fees that we may recognize will not satisfy the 90% Income Test. In order to ensure that such income and fees do not disqualify us as a RIC for a failure to satisfy the 90% Income Test, we may be required to recognize such income and fees directly or indirectly through one or more entities treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such corporations will be required to pay U.S. corporate income tax on their earnings, which ultimately will reduce our return on such income and fees. Failure to Qualify as a RIC If we are unable to maintain our qualification for treatment as a RIC, we would be subject to tax on all of our taxable income at regular corporate rates, regardless of whether we make any distributions to our shareholders. Distributions would not be required, and any distributions would be taxable to our shareholders as ordinary dividend income that would be eligible for the current 20% maximum rate to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits (subject to limitations under the Code). Subject to certain limitations under the Code, corporate distributees would be eligible for the dividends-received deduction. Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits would be treated first as a return of capital to the extent of the shareholder’s tax basis (reducing that basis accordingly), and any remaining distributions would be treated as a capital gain. To qualify again to be taxed as a RIC in a subsequent year, we would be required to distribute to our shareholders our earnings and profits attributable to non-RIC years. In addition, if we failed to qualify as a RIC for a period greater than two taxable years, then we would be required to elect to recognize and pay tax on any net built-in gain (the excess of aggregate gain, including items of income, over aggregate loss that would have been realized if we had been liquidated) or, alternatively, be subject to taxation on such built-in gain recognized for a period of ten years, in order to qualify as a RIC in a subsequent year. 28 Item 1A.Risk Factors RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a number of significant risks. In addition to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, you should consider carefully the following information before making an investment in our common stock. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or not presently deemed material by us might also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Structure Prior to November 7, 2012, we had not operated as a BDC or qualified to be treated as a RIC, and none of OFS Advisor or its affiliates had ever managed a BDC or a RIC, and we may not be able to operate our business successfully or generate sufficient revenue to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders. Prior to November 7, 2012, we had not operated as a BDC or qualified to be treated as a RIC, and none of OFS Advisor or its affiliates has ever managed a BDC. As a result of our limited experience as a BDC, we are subject to the business risks and uncertainties associated with new entities of these types, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objective, or that we will not qualify or maintain our qualification to be treated as a RIC, and that the value of your investment could decline substantially. The 1940 Act and the Code impose numerous constraints on the operations of business development companies and RICs. Business development companies are required, for example, to invest at least 70% of their total assets primarily in securities of U.S. private or thinly traded public companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high-quality debt instruments that mature in one year or less from the date of investment. Furthermore, any failure to comply with the requirements imposed on business development companies by the 1940 Act could cause the SEC to bring an enforcement action against us and/or expose us to claims of private litigants. In addition, upon approval of a majority of our shareholders, we may elect to withdraw our status as a BDC. If we decide to withdraw our election, or if we otherwise fail to qualify, or maintain our qualification, as a BDC, we may be subject to the substantially greater regulation under the 1940 Act as a closed-end investment company. Compliance with such regulations would significantly decrease our operating flexibility, and could significantly increase our costs of doing business. Moreover, qualification for treatment as a RIC requires satisfaction of source-of-income, asset diversification and distribution requirements. None of us, OFS Advisor or any of our or their respective affiliates has any experience operating under these constraints, which may hinder our ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and to achieve our investment objective. We are dependent upon the OFS senior professionals for our future success and upon their access to the investment professionals and partners of OFS and its affiliates. We do not have any internal management capacity or employees. We will depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the OFS senior professionals to achieve our investment objective. Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on the continued service and coordination of the OFS senior management team, particularly Glenn Pittson, Senior Managing Director of OFSC, Bilal Rashid, Senior Managing Director of OFSC, Jeffrey Cerny, Senior Managing Director of OFSC, and Mark Hauser, Senior Managing Director of OFSC. Each of these individuals is an employee at will of OFSC and, with the exception of Mr. Hauser, is not subject to an employment contract. In addition, we rely on the services of Richard Ressler, Chairman of the executive committee of OFSAM and Chairman of the Advisor Investment Committee pursuant to a consulting agreement with Orchard Capital. The departure of Mr. Ressler or any of the senior managers of OFSC, or of a significant number of its other investment professionals, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. We expect that OFS Advisor will evaluate, negotiate, structure, close and monitor our investments in accordance with the terms of the Investment Advisory Agreement. We can offer no assurance, however, that OFS senior professionals will continue to provide investment advice to us. If these individuals do not maintain their existing relationships with OFS and its affiliates and do not develop new relationships with other sources of investment opportunities, we may not be able to grow our investment portfolio or achieve our investment objective. In addition, individuals with whom the OFS senior professionals have relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities. Therefore, we can offer no assurance that such relationships will generate investment opportunities for us. 29 OFS Advisor is a subsidiary of OFSAM that has no employees and depends upon access to the investment professionals and other resources of OFS and its affiliates to fulfill its obligations to us under the Investment Advisory Agreement. OFS Advisor also depends upon OFS to obtain access to deal flow generated by the professionals of OFS and its affiliates. Under a Staffing Agreement between OFSC, a subsidiary of OFSAM that employs all of OFS’s personnel, and OFS Advisor, OFSC has agreed to provide OFS Advisor with the resources necessary to fulfill these obligations. The Staffing Agreement provides that OFSC will make available to OFS Advisor experienced investment professionals and access to the senior investment personnel of OFSC for purposes of evaluating, negotiating, structuring, closing and monitoring our investments. We are not a party to this Staffing Agreement and cannot assure shareholders that OFSC will fulfill its obligations under the agreement. If OFSC fails to perform, we cannot assure shareholders that OFS Advisor will enforce the Staffing Agreement or that such agreement will not be terminated by either party or that we will continue to have access to the investment professionals of OFSC and its affiliates or their information and deal flow. The investment committees that oversee our investment activities are provided by OFS Advisor under the Investment Advisory Agreement, as well as by SBIC I GP. Advisor Investment Committee consists of Richard Ressler (Chairman), Glenn Pittson, Bilal Rashid, and Jeffrey Cerny. The SBIC Investment Committee consists of Mark Hauser, Glenn Pittson, Peter Rothschild, and Peter Fidler. The loss of any member of the Investment Committees or of other OFS senior professionals would limit our ability to achieve our investment objective and operate as we anticipate. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Our business model depends to a significant extent upon strong referral relationships with financial institutions, sponsors and investment professionals. Any inability of OFS Advisor to maintain or develop these relationships, or the failure of these relationships to generate investment opportunities, could adversely affect our business. We depend upon OFS Advisor to maintain OFS’s relationships with financial institutions, sponsors and investment professionals, and we will continue to rely to a significant extent upon these relationships to provide us with potential investment opportunities. If OFS Advisor fails to maintain such relationships, or to develop new relationships with other sources of investment opportunities, we will not be able to grow our investment portfolio. In addition, individuals with whom the principals of OFS Advisor have relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and, therefore, we can offer no assurance that these relationships will generate investment opportunities for us in the future. A substantial portion of our senior secured loan portfolio was purchased by OFS Capital WM, our wholly-owned subsidiary, using borrowed funds and is managed by an unaffiliated loan manager. OFS Capital WM financed the purchase of a substantial portion of our loan portfolio using funds borrowed under the OFS Capital WM Facility. While investors in OFS Capital benefit from the loan assets sold to OFS Capital WM by virtue of our ownership of 100% of the equity interests in OFS Capital WM, they are also be exposed to the risks associated with those assets. For example, lenders have a first lien on the loan assets sold to OFS Capital WM and will have a superior claim to our claim as an equityholder in any liquidation of OFS Capital WM. In addition, the lender has a first lien on our equity interests in OFS Capital WM and will have a superior claim to a claim by our investors on those equity interests in any liquidation of OFS Capital. Additionally, OFS Capital WM is managed by an affiliate of Madison Capital (an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of New York Life Investments), as loan manager, pursuant to the OFS Capital WM Facility documentation, which prescribes the order in which payments are to be applied and contains other contractual restrictions. Accordingly, our success depends, to a certain degree, on the administration of OFS Capital WM’s portfolio by an unaffiliated loan manager. If the loan manager is unable to generate sufficient returns to permit payments to us under the OFS Capital WM Facility documentation or defaults in its obligation thereunder, we could be materially and adversely affected. As a result of the amendments to OFS Capital WM Facility in 2012 (“WM 2012 Credit Facility Amendments”), we have substantial additional input into certain key management decisions with respect to OFS Capital WM’s portfolio companies, including decisions with respect to amendments to or modifications of the investments in these entities, or noticing or waiving of defaults or accelerating portfolio loans. While the loan manager for OFS Capital WM is not required to follow our recommendations, if we make a recommendation with which the loan manager disagrees, the loan manager must at our direction commence a process to sell the applicable investment, subject to our right to control the negotiations for such sale and to suspend any such sales process. Our financial condition and results of operation will depend on our ability to manage our business effectively. Our ability to achieve our investment objective and grow will depend on our ability to manage our business. This will depend, in turn, on the ability of the Investment Committees to identify, invest in and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. The achievement of our investment objectives on a cost-effective basis will depend upon the execution by the Investment Committees to execute our investment process, their ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us and, to a lesser extent, our access to financing on acceptable terms. OFS Advisor will have substantial responsibilities under the Investment Advisory Agreement. The OFS senior professionals and other personnel of OFS Advisor’s affiliates, including OFSC, may be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. These activities may distract them or slow our rate of investment. Any failure to manage our business and our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 We have potential conflicts of interest related to obligations that OFS Advisor or its affiliates may have to other clients. OFS Advisor and its affiliates manage other assets and CLO funds and may manage other entities in the future, and these other funds and entities may have similar or overlapping investment strategies. The members of the Advisor Investment Committee serve or may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do, or of investment funds or other investment vehicles managed by OFS Advisor or its affiliates. Similarly, OFS Advisor and/or its affiliates may have other clients with, similar, different or competing investment objectives. In serving in these multiple capacities, they may have obligations to other clients or investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which may not be in the best interests of us or our shareholders. OFS Advisor will seek to allocate investment opportunities among eligible accounts in a manner that is fair and equitable over time and consistent with its allocation policy. Under this allocation policy, if two or more investment vehicles with similar or overlapping investment strategies are in their investment periods, an available opportunity will be allocated based on the provisions governing allocations of such investment opportunities in the relevant organizational, offering or similar documents, if any, for such investment vehicles. In the absence of any such provisions, OFS Advisor will consider the following factors and the weight that should be given with respect to each of these factors: •investment guidelines and/or restrictions, if any, set forth in the applicable organizational, offering or similar documents for the investment vehicles; •risk and return profile of the investment vehicles; •suitability/priority of a particular investment for the investment vehicles; •if applicable, the targeted position size of the investment for the investment vehicles; •level of available cash for investment with respect to the investment vehicles; •total amount of funds committed to the investment vehicles; and •the age of the investment vehicles and the remaining term of their respective investment periods, if any. There can be no assurance that we will be able to participate in all investment opportunities that are suitable to us. Members of the Investment Committees, OFS Advisor or its affiliates may, from time to time, possess material non-public information, limiting our investment discretion. OFS senior professionals and members of the Investment Committees may serve as directors of, or in a similar capacity with, companies in which we invest, the securities of which are purchased or sold on our behalf. In the event that material nonpublic information is obtained with respect to such companies, or we become subject to trading restrictions under the internal trading policies of those companies or as a result of applicable law or regulations, we could be prohibited for a period of time from purchasing or selling the securities of such companies, and this prohibition may have an adverse effect on us. Our incentive fee structure may create incentives for OFS Advisor that are not fully aligned with the interests of our shareholders. In the course of our investing activities, we will pay management and incentive fees to OFS Advisor. The base management fee is based on our total assets (other than cash and cash equivalents but including assets purchased with borrowed amounts and including assets owned by any consolidated entity). We have elected to exclude from the base management fee calculation any base management fee that would be owed in respect of the intangible asset and goodwill resulting from our acquisitions of the remaining ownership interests in SBIC I LP and SBIC I GP on December 4, 2013. As a result, investors in our common stock will invest on a “gross” basis and receive distributions on a “net” basis after expenses, resulting in a lower rate of return than one might achieve through direct investments. Because these fees are based on our total assets, other than cash and cash equivalents but including assets purchased with borrowed amounts and including any assets owned by any consolidated entity, OFS Advisor will benefit when we incur debt or use leverage. Our board of directors is charged with protecting our interests by monitoring how OFS Advisor addresses these and other conflicts of interests associated with its management services and compensation. While our board of directors is not expected to review or approve each borrowing or incurrence of leverage, our independent directors will periodically review OFS Advisor’s services and fees as well as its portfolio management decisions and portfolio performance. In connection with these reviews, our independent directors will consider whether our fees and expenses (including those related to leverage) remain appropriate. As a result of this arrangement, OFS Advisor or its affiliates may from time to time have interests that differ from those of our shareholders, giving rise to a conflict. The part of the incentive fee payable to OFS Advisor that relates to our pre-incentive fee net investment income will be computed and paid on income that may include interest income that has been accrued but not yet received in cash. This fee structure may be considered to involve a conflict of interest for OFS Advisor to the extent that it may encourage OFS Advisor to favor debt financings that provide for deferred interest, rather than current cash payments of interest. OFS Advisor may have an incentive to invest in deferred interest securities in circumstances where it would not have done so but for the opportunity to continue to earn the incentive fee even when the issuers of the deferred interest securities would not be able to make actual cash payments to us on such securities. This risk could be increased because OFS Advisor is not obligated to reimburse us for any incentive fees received even if we subsequently incur losses or never receive in cash the deferred income that was previously accrued. 31 The valuation process for certain of our portfolio holdings creates a conflict of interest. Many of our portfolio investments are made in the form of securities that are not publicly traded. As a result, our board of directors will determine the fair value of these securities in good faith as described below in “Many of our portfolio investments are recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors and, as a result, there may be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments.” In connection with that determination, investment professionals from OFS Advisor may provide our board of directors with portfolio company valuations based upon the most recent portfolio company financial statements available and projected financial results of each portfolio company. In addition, the members of our board of directors who are not independent directors have a substantial indirect pecuniary interest in OFS Advisor. The participation of OFS Advisor’s investment professionals in our valuation process, and the indirect pecuniary interest in OFS Advisor by those members of our board of directors, could result in a conflict of interest since OFS Advisor’s management fee is based, in part, on our total assets (other than cash and cash equivalents but including assets purchased with borrowed amounts and including assets owned by any consolidated entity). We may have additional conflicts related to other arrangements with OFS Advisor or its affiliates. We have entered into a license agreement with OFSAM under which OFSAM has granted us a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to use the name “OFS.” See “Item 1. Business—Management and Other Agreements—License Agreement.” In addition, we will rent office space from a subsidiary of OFSAM and pay to that subsidiary our allocable portion of overhead and other expenses incurred in performing its obligations under the Administration Agreement, such as rent and our allocable portion of the cost of our officers, including our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief compliance officer and chief accounting officer. This will create conflicts of interest that our board of directors must monitor. The Investment Advisory Agreement with OFS Advisor and the Administration Agreement with OFS Services were not negotiated on an arm’s length basis and may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. The Investment Advisory Agreement and the Administration Agreement were negotiated between related parties. Consequently, their terms, including fees payable to OFS Advisor, may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. In addition, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights and remedies under these agreements because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with OFS Advisor, OFS Services and their respective affiliates. Any such decision, however, would breach our fiduciary obligations to our shareholders. Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates will be restricted, which may limit the scope of investments available to us. Because we have elected to be treated as a BDC under the 1940 Act, we are prohibited under the 1940 Act from participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, of the SEC. Those transactions include purchases and sales, and so-called “joint” transactions, in which we and one or more of our affiliates are engaging together in certain types of profit-making activities. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, five percent or more of our outstanding voting securities will be our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act, and we are generally prohibited from engaging in purchases or sales of assets or joint transactions with such affiliates, absent the prior approval of our independent directors. Additionally, without the approval of the SEC, we are prohibited from engaging in purchases or sales of assets or joint transactions with the following affiliated persons: (a) our officers, directors, and employees; (b) OFS Advisor and its affiliates; and (c) any person who owns more than 25% of our voting securities or certain of that person’s affiliates. We may, however, invest alongside OFSAM and its other affiliates or their respective other clients in certain circumstances where doing so is consistent with applicable law and SEC staff interpretations. For example, we may invest alongside such accounts consistent with guidance promulgated by the SEC staff permitting us and such other accounts to purchase interests in a single class of privately placed securities so long as certain conditions are met, including that OFS Advisor, acting on our behalf and on behalf of other clients, negotiates no term other than price. We may also invest alongside OFSAM and its other affiliates or their respective other clients as otherwise permissible under regulatory guidance, applicable regulations and OFS Advisor’s allocation policy. Under this allocation policy, if two or more investment vehicles with similar or overlapping investment strategies are in their investment periods, an available opportunity will be allocated based on the provisions governing allocations of such investment opportunities in the relevant organizational, offering or similar documents, if any, for such investment vehicles. In the absence of any such provisions, OFS Advisor will consider the following factors and the weight that should be given with respect to each of these factors: •investment guidelines and/or restrictions, if any, set forth in the applicable organizational, offering or similar documents for the investment vehicles; •risk and return profile of the investment vehicles; •suitability/priority of a particular investment for the investment vehicles; •if applicable, the targeted position size of the investment for the investment vehicles; •level of available cash for investment with respect to the investment vehicles; 32 •total amount of funds committed to the investment vehicles; and •the age of the investment vehicles and the remaining term of their respective investment periods, if any. In situations where co-investment with such other accounts is not permitted or appropriate, such as when there is an opportunity to invest in different securities of the same issuer or where the different investments could be expected to result in a conflict between our interests and those of other accounts, OFS Advisor will need to decide which account will proceed with the investment. The decision by OFS Advisor to allocate an opportunity to another entity could cause us to forego an investment opportunity that we otherwise would have made. Moreover, except in certain circumstances, we will be unable to invest in any issuer in which OFSAM and its other affiliates or a fund managed by OFSAM or its other affiliates has previously invested. Similar restrictions limit our ability to transact business with our officers or directors or their affiliates. These restrictions may limit the scope of investment opportunities that would otherwise be available to us. We may also be prohibited under the 1940 Act from knowingly participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of members of our board of directors who are not interested persons and, in some cases, prior approval by the SEC. The SEC has interpreted the BDC regulations governing transactions with affiliates to prohibit certain “joint transactions” between entities that share a common investment adviser. In connection with our election to be regulated as a BDC, we will not be permitted to co-invest with other funds managed by OFSAM or one of its affiliates in certain types of negotiated investment transactions unless we receive exemptive relief from the SEC permitting us to do so. Although we may apply to the SEC for exemptive relief to permit such co-investment and liquidity transactions, subject to certain conditions, we cannot be certain that any application for such relief will be granted or what conditions will be placed on such relief. SBA regulations limit the outstanding dollar amount of SBA guaranteed debenture funding that may be received by an SBIC or group of SBICs under common control. SBA regulations currently limit the amount that an SBIC may borrow to up to a maximum of $150 million when it has at least $75 million in regulatory capital, receives a leverage commitment from the SBA and has been through an examination by the SBA subsequent to licensing. For two or more SBICs under common control, the maximum amount of outstanding SBA-provided leverage cannot exceed $225 million. A proposed bill in the U.S. House of Representatives, the Small Business Capital Access and Job Preservation Act, or House Bill 1105, would increase the total SBIC leverage capacity for affiliated SBIC funds from $225 million to $350 million. However, the ultimate form and likely outcome of such legislation or any similar legislation cannot be predicted. We cannot presently predict whether or not we will borrow the maximum permitted amount; if we reach the maximum dollar amount of SBA guaranteed debentures permitted, and thereafter require additional capital, our cost of capital may increase, and there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. Moreover, SBIC I LP’s status as an SBIC does not automatically assure that it will receive SBA guaranteed debenture funding. Receipt of SBA leverage funding is dependent upon whether SBIC I LP is and continues to be in compliance with SBA regulations and policies and whether funding is available. The amount of SBA leverage funding available to SBICs is dependent upon annual Congressional authorizations and in the future may be subject to annual Congressional appropriations. There can be no assurance that there will be sufficient debenture funding available at the times desired by SBIC I LP. As of December 31, 2013, SBIC I LP had a total of $26.0 million of SBA guaranteed debentures outstanding and has paid the SBA fees of approximately $1.3 million. In order to access the full $150.0 million of SBA guaranteed debentures potentially available to us under the license held by SBIC I LP, we need to fund an additional $13.6 million into SBIC I LP. There can be no assurance as to when, or whether, we will be able to invest the additional $13.6 million into SBIC I LP. SBIC I LP is subject to SBA regulations. Our investment strategy includes SBIC I LP, which is regulated by the SBA. On December 4, 2013, we acquired the remaining limited and general partnership interests of SBIC I LP that we did not already own, which resulted in SBIC I LP becoming our wholly-owned subsidiary. The SBIC license allows SBIC I LP to receive SBA-guaranteed debenture funding, subject to the issuance of leverage commitments by the SBA and other customary procedures. Prior to becoming our wholly-owned subsidiary, SBIC I LP had received $67.3 million in SBA leverage commitments. However, receipt of SBA-guaranteed debenture funding is subject to SBIC I LP’s compliance with SBA regulations and policies. We cannot assure shareholders that SBIC I LP will satisfy the conditions to receive such funding or that it will otherwise be able to make additional draws on its existing commitment or receive additional commitments from the SBA. 33 Further, the SBA regulations require that a licensed SBIC be periodically examined and audited by the SBA to determine its compliance with the relevant SBA regulations. If SBIC I LP fails to comply with applicable SBA regulations, the SBA could, depending on the severity of the violation, limit or prohibit its use of debentures, declare outstanding debentures immediately due and payable, and/or limit its ability to make new investments. The SBA, as a creditor, will have a superior claim to SBIC I LP’s assets over SBIC I LP’s limited partners and our shareholders in the event SBIC I LP is liquidated or the SBA exercises its remedies under the SBA debentures issued by SBIC I LP in the event of a default. In addition, the SBA can revoke or suspend a license for willful or repeated violation of, or willful or repeated failure to observe, any provision of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 or any rule or regulation promulgated thereunder. These actions by the SBA would, in turn, negatively affect us because of our ownership interest in SBIC I LP. The SBA places certain limitations on the financing terms of investments by SBICs in portfolio companies and prohibits an SBIC from providing funds to small businesses for certain purposes, such as relending, real estate or investing in companies outside of the United States, and providing funds to businesses engaged in a few prohibited industries and to certain “passive” (i.e., non-operating) companies. In addition, without prior SBA approval, an SBIC may not invest an amount equal to more than approximately 30% of the SBIC’s regulatory capital in any one company and its affiliates. Compliance with SBIC requirements may cause SBIC I LP to forego attractive investment opportunities that are not permitted under SBA regulations. SBIC I LP is subject to ongoing regulation and oversight by the SBA, including requirements with respect to maintaining certain minimum financial ratios and other covenants. In addition, SBIC I LP may also be limited in its ability to make distributions to us if it does not have sufficient accumulated net profit, in accordance with SBA regulations. These requirements may make it more difficult for us to achieve our investment objective. We finance our investments with borrowed money, which magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing in us. The use of leverage magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested. The use of leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique and increases the risks associated with investing in our securities. We may pledge up to 100% of our assets and may grant a security interest in all of our assets under the terms of any debt instruments we may enter into with lenders. In addition, under the terms of any credit facility or other debt instrument we enter into, we are likely to be required by its terms to use the net proceeds of any investments that we sell to repay a portion of the amount borrowed under such facility or instrument before applying such net proceeds to any other uses. If the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged, thereby magnifying losses or eliminating our equity stake in a leveraged investment. Similarly, any decrease in our revenue or income will cause our net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline would also negatively affect our ability to make dividend payments on our common stock or preferred stock. Our ability to service our debt will depend largely on our financial performance and will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. Moreover, because the management fee payable to OFS Advisor is payable based on our total assets (other than cash, cash equivalents, and the intangible asset and goodwill resulting from our acquisitions of the remaining ownership interests in SBIC I LP and SBIC I GP on December 4, 2013, but including assets purchased with borrowed amounts and including assets owned by any consolidated entity), OFS Advisor will have a financial incentive to incur leverage which may not be consistent with our shareholders’ interests. In addition, our common shareholders will bear the burden of any increase in our expenses as a result of our use of leverage, including interest expenses and any increase in the management fee payable to OFS Advisor. As a BDC, we are generally required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total borrowings and other senior securities, which include all of our borrowings and any preferred stock that we may issue in the future, of at least 200%. If this ratio declines below 200%, we will not be able to incur additional debt and could be required to sell a portion of our investments to repay some debt when it is disadvantageous to do so. This could have a material adverse effect on our operations, and we may not be able to make distributions. The amount of leverage that we employ will depend on OFS Advisor’s and our board of directors’ assessment of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. We cannot assure shareholders that we will be able to obtain credit at all or on terms acceptable to us. The following table illustrates the effect of leverage on returns from an investment in our common stock assuming various annual returns, net of expenses. The calculations in the table below are hypothetical and actual returns may be higher or lower than those appearing in the table below. 34 Assumed Return on Our Portfolio (Net of Expenses) -10% -5% 0% 5% 10% Corresponding return to common stockholder (1) -20% -12% -3% 5% 14% (1)Assumes $237.9 million in investments at fair value, $135.0 million in debt outstanding, $140.4 million in net assets and an average cost of funds of 3.5%. Assumptions are based on our financial condition and our average cost of funds at December 31, 2013. Based on our outstanding indebtedness of $135.0 million as of December 31, 2013 and the average cost of funds of 3.5% as of that date, our investment portfolio must experience an annual return of at least 2.0% to cover interest payments on the outstanding debt. To the extent we use debt to finance our investments, changes in interest rates will affect our cost of capital and net investment income. To the extent we borrow money to make investments, our net investment income will depend, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest those funds. As a result, we can offer no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income in the event we use debt to finance our investments. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds would increase, which could reduce our net investment income. We may use interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Such techniques may include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. You should also be aware that a rise in the general level of interest rates typically leads to higher interest rates applicable to our debt investments. Accordingly, an increase in interest rates may result in an increase of the amount of incentive fees payable to OFS Advisor. We may enter into reverse repurchase agreements, which are another form of leverage. We may enter into reverse repurchase agreements as part of our management of our temporary investment portfolio. Under a reverse repurchase agreement, we will effectively pledge our assets as collateral to secure a short-term loan. Generally, the other party to the agreement makes the loan in an amount equal to a percentage of the fair value of the pledged collateral. At the maturity of the reverse repurchase agreement, we will be required to repay the loan and correspondingly receive back our collateral. While used as collateral, the assets continue to pay principal and interest which are for the benefit of us. Our use of reverse repurchase agreements, if any, involves many of the same risks involved in our use of leverage, as the proceeds from reverse repurchase agreements generally will be invested in additional securities. There is a risk that the market value of the securities acquired in the reverse repurchase agreement may decline below the price of the securities that we have sold but remain obligated to purchase. In addition, there is a risk that the market value of the securities retained by us may decline. If a buyer of securities under a reverse repurchase agreement were to file for bankruptcy or experience insolvency, we may be adversely affected. Also, in entering into reverse repurchase agreements, we would bear the risk of loss to the extent that the proceeds of such agreements at settlement are less than the fair value of the underlying securities being pledged. In addition, due to the interest costs associated with reverse repurchase agreements transactions, our net asset value would decline, and, in some cases, we may be worse off than if we had not used such instruments. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities, which could reduce returns and result in losses. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we plan to make. We will compete with public and private funds, commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity and hedge funds. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, we believe some of our competitors may have access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC or the source of income, asset diversification and distribution requirements we must satisfy to maintain our RIC status. The competitive pressures we face may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we may not be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. 35 With respect to the investments we make, we will not seek to compete based primarily on the interest rates we will offer, and we believe that some of our competitors may make loans with interest rates that will be lower than the rates we offer. In the secondary market for acquiring existing loans, we expect to compete generally on the basis of pricing terms. With respect to all investments, we may lose some investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. However, if we match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure, we may experience decreased net interest income, lower yields and increased risk of credit loss. We may also compete for investment opportunities with OFSAM and its other affiliates or accounts managed by OFSAM or one of its other affiliates. Although OFS Advisor will allocate opportunities in accordance with its policies and procedures, allocations to such other accounts will reduce the amount and frequency of opportunities available to us and may not be in the best interests of us and our shareholders. Moreover, the performance of investments will not be known at the time of allocation. We may suffer credit losses. Investment in middle market companies is highly speculative and involves a high degree of risk of credit loss, and therefore our securities may not be suitable for someone with a low tolerance for risk. These risks are likely to increase during an economic recession. We will be subject to corporate-level federal income tax if we are unable to qualify or maintain our qualification as a RIC. We have elected to be treated as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code, but no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain RIC status after the election to be treated as RIC. When we qualify as a RIC under the Code, we will not be required to pay corporate-level federal income taxes on our income and capital gains distributed (or deemed distributed) to our shareholders. To continue to qualify as a RIC under the Code and to be relieved of federal taxes on income and gains distributed to our shareholders, we must maintain certain source-of-income, asset diversification and distribution requirements. The distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if we distribute at least 90% of our net ordinary income and net short-term capital gains in excess of net long-term capital losses, if any, to our shareholders on an annual basis. We will be subject, to the extent we use debt financing, to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to continue to qualify as a RIC. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to maintain our qualification for the tax benefits available to RICs and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level federal income tax. To maintain our qualification as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments will be in private or thinly traded public companies, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses. If we fail to continue to as a RIC for any reason and become subject to corporate-level federal income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distributions to shareholders and the amount of our distributions and the amount of funds available for new investments. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our shareholders. See “Item 1. Business—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Taxation as a RIC.” Our subsidiaries and portfolio companies may be unable to make distributions to us that will enable us to meet RIC requirements, which could result in the imposition of an entity-level tax. In order for us to continue to maintain our status as a RIC and to minimize corporate-level taxes, we are required to distribute on an annual basis substantially all of our taxable income, which includes income from our subsidiaries and portfolio companies. As a substantial portion of our investments are made through OFS Capital WM or SBIC I LP, we are substantially dependent on those entities for cash distributions to enable us to maintain the RIC distribution requirements. SBIC I LP may be limited by the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 and SBA regulations governing SBICs from making certain distributions to us that may be necessary to enable us to continue to qualify as a RIC. We may have to request a waiver of the SBA’s restrictions for SBIC I LP to make certain distributions to maintain our status as a RIC and we cannot assure shareholders that the SBA will grant such waiver. Additionally, OFS Capital WM is managed by an unaffiliated loan manager pursuant to the OFS Capital WM Facility documentation, which prescribes the order in which payments are to be applied and contains other contractual restrictions. Accordingly, we cannot assure shareholders that OFS Capital WM will make distributions to us. If our subsidiaries and portfolio companies are unable to make distributions to us, this may result in loss of RIC status and a consequent imposition of a corporate-level federal income tax on us. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before, or without, receiving cash representing such income. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as the accretion of OID. This may arise if we purchase assets at a discount, receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan or in other circumstances, or through contracted payment-in-kind (“PIK”) interest (meaning interest paid in the form of additional principal amount of the loan instead of in cash), which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. Such OID, which could be significant relative to our overall investment activities, or increases in loan balances as a result of contracted PIK arrangements, will be included in income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash. 36 Since in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the requirement to distribute at least 90% of our net ordinary income and net short-term capital gains in excess of net long-term capital losses, if any, to maintain the tax benefits available to RICs. In such a case, we may have to sell some of our investments at times and/or at prices we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations and sourcings to meet these distribution requirements. If we sell built-in-gain assets, we may be required to recognize taxable income in respect of the built-in-gain on such assets. In such a case, we would have to distribute all of our taxable gain (including the built-in-gain) in respect of such sale to avoid the imposition of entity-level tax on such gain. If we are not able to obtain such cash from other sources, we may fail to maintain the tax benefits available to RICs and thus be subject to corporate-level income tax. See “Item 1. Business—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Taxation as a RIC.” We may in the future choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case shareholders may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash they receive. We distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash or shares of our common stock at the election of each shareholder. Under certain applicable provisions of the Code and the Treasury regulations, distributions payable in cash or in shares of stock at the election of shareholders are treated as taxable dividends. The Internal Revenue Service has issued private rulings indicating that this rule will apply even where the total amount of cash that may be distributed is limited to no more than 20% of the total distribution. Under these rulings, if too many shareholders elect to receive their distributions in cash, each such shareholder would receive a pro rata share of the total cash to be distributed and would receive the remainder of their distribution in shares of stock. If we decide to make any distributions consistent with these rulings that are payable in part in our stock, taxable shareholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend (whether received in cash, our stock, or a combination thereof) as ordinary income (or as long-term capital gain to the extent such distribution is properly reported as a capital gain dividend) to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for United States federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. shareholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of any cash received. If a U.S. shareholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. shareholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our shareholders determine to sell shares of our stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. Because we expect to distribute substantially all of our net investment income and net realized capital gains to our shareholders, we may need additional capital to finance our growth and such capital may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We have elected to be taxed for federal income tax purposes as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. As such, if we meet certain requirements, including source of income, asset diversification and distribution requirements, and if we continue to qualify as a BDC, we will continue to qualify to be a RIC under the Code and will not have to pay corporate-level taxes on income we distribute to our shareholders as dividends, allowing us to substantially reduce or eliminate our corporate-level tax liability. As a BDC, we are generally required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total senior securities, which includes all of our borrowings and any preferred stock we may issue in the future, of at least 200% at the time we issue any debt or preferred stock. This requirement limits the amount that we may borrow. Because we will continue to need capital to grow our investment portfolio, this limitation may prevent us from incurring debt or preferred stock and require us to raise additional equity at a time when it may be disadvantageous to do so. We cannot assure shareholders that debt and equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, and debt financings may be restricted by the terms of any of our outstanding borrowings. In addition, as a BDC, we are generally not permitted to issue common stock priced below net asset value without shareholder approval. If additional funds are not available to us, we could be forced to curtail or cease new lending and investment activities, and our net asset value could decline. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect our ability to and the way in which we raise additional capital. As a BDC, we will need to raise additional capital, which will expose us to risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted as a BDC to issue senior securities in amounts such that our asset coverage ratio, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% of gross assets less all liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities, after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. Also, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness would not be available for distributions to our common shareholders. If we issue senior securities, we will be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss. 37 As of December 31, 2013, we had debt outstanding in the amount of $135.0 million. Our ability to incur additional debt and remain in compliance with the asset coverage test will be limited. We may seek a credit facility to finance investments and potentially for working capital requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms or at all, or that SBIC I LP will be able to borrow additional funds. We have received an exemptive order from the SEC to permit us to exclude the debt of SBIC I LP guaranteed by the SBA from our definition of senior securities in our statutory 200% asset coverage ratio under the 1940 Act. If we issue preferred stock, the preferred stock would rank “senior” to common stock in our capital structure, preferred shareholders would have separate voting rights on certain matters and might have other rights, preferences or privileges more favorable than those of our common shareholders, and the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in our shareholders’ best interest. Holders of our common stock will directly or indirectly bear all of the costs associated with offering and servicing any preferred stock that we issue. In addition, any interests of preferred shareholders may not necessarily align with the interests of holders of our common stock and the rights of holders of shares of preferred stock to receive dividends would be senior to those of holders of shares of our common stock. We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the then-current net asset value per share of our common stock if our board of directors determines that such sale is in the best interests of us and our shareholders, and if our shareholders approve any such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price that, in the determination of our board of directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). If we raise additional funds by issuing common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, then the percentage ownership of our shareholders at that time will decrease, and our shareholders might experience dilution. Our ability to invest in public companies may be limited in certain circumstances. To maintain our status as a BDC, we are not permitted to acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” specified in the 1940 Act unless, at the time the acquisition is made, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets (with certain limited exceptions). Subject to certain exceptions for follow-on investments and distressed companies, an investment in an issuer that has outstanding securities listed on a national securities exchange may be treated as a qualifying asset only if such issuer has a common equity market capitalization that is less than $250 million at the time of such investment and meets the other specified requirements. Various events could negatively impact the value of our investment in OFS Capital WM (and, as a result, a shareholder’s investment in us), including an event of default under the OFS Capital WM Facility documentation and the substantive consolidation of OFS Capital WM with us. The OFS Capital WM Facility documentation contains several events of default, including breaches of representations and warranties by us, OFS Capital WM or Madison Capital (an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of New York Life Investments) and breaches of covenants that prohibit certain actions by us, OFS Capital WM, Madison Capital or the affiliate of Madison Capital that acts as loan manager for OFS Capital WM. If an event of default were to occur, the trustee, at the request of the controlling lender, may accelerate the outstanding indebtedness under the OFS Capital WM Facility and may enforce its rights in the collateral securing the facility. As we have pledged our equity interest in OFS Capital WM as security for the obligations under the OFS Capital WM Facility, we may lose all or a portion of our investment in OFS Capital WM if an event of default occurs. Breaches of the OFS Capital WM Facility documentation that fall short of an event of default could also negatively impact the value of our equity interest in OFS Capital WM and the value of our shareholders’ investment in OFS Capital. Adverse developments in the credit markets may impair our ability to secure debt financing. During the economic downturn in the United States that began in mid-2007, many commercial banks and other financial institutions stopped lending or significantly curtailed their lending activity. In addition, in an effort to stem losses and reduce their exposure to segments of the economy deemed to be high risk, some financial institutions limited routine refinancing and loan modification transactions and even reviewed the terms of existing facilities to identify bases for accelerating the maturity of existing lending facilities. As a result, it may be difficult for us to obtain desired financing to finance the growth of our investments on acceptable economic terms, or at all. If we are unable to consummate credit facilities on commercially reasonable terms, our liquidity may be reduced significantly. If we are unable to repay amounts outstanding under any facility we may enter into and are declared in default or are unable to renew or refinance any such facility, it would limit our ability to initiate significant originations or to operate our business in the normal course. These situations may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as inaccessibility of the credit markets, a severe decline in the value of the U.S. dollar, a further economic downturn or an operational problem that affects third parties or us, and could materially damage our business. Moreover, we are unable to predict when economic and market conditions may become more favorable. Even if such conditions improve broadly and significantly over the long term, adverse conditions in particular sectors of the financial markets could adversely impact our business. 38 We are highly dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. Our business is highly dependent on the communications and information systems of OFS Advisor and its affiliates as well as third parties. Any failure or interruption of those systems, including as a result of the termination of an agreement with any third-party service providers, could cause delays or other problems in our activities. Our financial, accounting, data processing, backup or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control and adversely affect our business. There could be: •sudden electrical or telecommunications outages; •natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes; •disease pandemics; •events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and •cyber attacks. These events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could fail to continue to qualify as a BDC or be precluded from investing according to our current business strategy. As a BDC, we may not acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. See “Item 1. Business—Regulation.” We believe that most of the investments that we may acquire in the future will constitute qualifying assets. However, we may be precluded from investing in what we believe are attractive investments if such investments are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 1940 Act. If a sufficient portion of our assets are not qualifying assets, we could violate the 1940 Act provisions applicable to business development companies. As a result of such violation, specific rules under the 1940 Act could prevent us, for example, from making follow-on investments in existing portfolio companies (which could result in the dilution of our position) or could require us to dispose of investments at inappropriate times in order to come into compliance with the 1940 Act. If we need to dispose of such investments quickly, it could be difficult to dispose of such investments on favorable terms. We may not be able to find a buyer for such investments and, even if we do find a buyer, we may have to sell the investments at a substantial loss. Any such outcomes would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not maintain our status as a BDC, we would be subject to regulation as a registered closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act. As a registered closed-end fund, we would be subject to substantially more regulatory restrictions under the 1940 Act which would significantly decrease our operating flexibility. Many of our portfolio investments are recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors and, as a result, there may be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. Many of our portfolio investments, including those of our subsidiaries, take the form of securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We value these securities at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors, including to reflect significant events affecting the value of our securities. Most of our investments (other than cash and cash equivalents) are classified as Level 3 under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement and Disclosures (ASC Topic 820). This means that our portfolio valuations are based on unobservable inputs and our own assumptions about how market participants would price the asset or liability in question. Inputs into the determination of fair value of our portfolio investments require significant management judgment or estimation. Even if observable market data are available, such information is the result of consensus pricing information or broker quotes, which include a disclaimer that the broker would not be held to such a price in an actual transaction. The non-binding nature of consensus pricing and/or quotes accompanied by disclaimers materially reduces the reliability of such information. We presently retain the services of two independent service providers to review the valuation of these securities. The types of factors that the board of directors takes into account in determining the fair value of our investments generally include, as appropriate, comparison to publicly traded securities including such factors as yield, maturity and measures of credit quality, the enterprise value of a portfolio company, the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s ability to make payments and its earnings and discounted cash flow, the markets in which the portfolio company does business and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities. 39 We adjust quarterly the valuation of our portfolio to reflect our board of directors’ determination of the fair value of each investment in our portfolio. Any changes in fair value are recorded in our statement of income as net change in unrealized appreciation or depreciation. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including the interest rate payable on the debt securities we acquire, the default rate on such securities, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, distributions from our subsidiaries and portfolio companies, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. In light of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Changes in the laws or regulations governing our business, or changes in the interpretations thereof, and any failure by us to comply with these laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our, and our portfolio companies’, business, results of operations or financial condition. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws at the U.S. federal, state and local levels, including those that govern BDCs, RICs or non-depository commercial lenders. These laws and regulations, including applicable accounting standards, as well as their interpretation, may change from time to time, and new laws, regulations, accounting standards and interpretations may also come into effect. Any such new or changed laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are also subject to judicial and administrative decisions that affect our operations, including our loan originations, maximum interest rates, fees and other charges, disclosures to portfolio companies, the terms of secured transactions, collection and foreclosure procedures and other trade practices. If these laws, regulations or decisions change, or if we expand our business into jurisdictions that have adopted more stringent requirements than those in which we currently conduct business, we may have to incur significant expenses in order to comply, or we might have to restrict our operations. If we do not comply with applicable laws, regulations and decisions, we may lose licenses needed for the conduct of our business and may be subject to civil fines and criminal penalties. In addition, changes to the laws and regulations governing our operations related to permitted investments may cause us to alter our investment strategy, including making investments in entities such as OFS Capital WM and SBIC I LP, in order to avail ourselves of new or different opportunities. Such changes could result in material differences to the strategies and plans set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K and our accounting practices described in this annual report on Form 10-K, and may shift our investment focus from the areas of expertise of OFS Advisor to other types of investments in which OFS Advisor may have little or no expertise or experience. Any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. On July 21, 2010, the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or Dodd-Frank Act, was signed into law. Although passage of the Dodd-Frank Act has resulted in extensive rulemaking and regulatory changes that affect us and the financial industry as a whole, many of its provisions remain subject to extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates and will require extensive rulemaking by regulatory authorities. While the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on us and our portfolio companies may not be known for an extended period of time, the Dodd-Frank Act, including future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, along with other legislative and regulatory proposals directed at the financial services industry or affecting taxation that are proposed or pending in the U.S. Congress, may negatively impact the operations, cash flows or financial condition of us or our portfolio companies, impose additional costs on us or our portfolio companies, intensify the regulatory supervision of us or our portfolio companies or otherwise adversely affect our business or the business of our portfolio companies.. Over the last several years, there has been an increase in regulatory attention to the extension of credit outside of the traditional banking sector, raising the possibility that some portion of the non-bank financial sector will be subject to new regulation. While it cannot be known at this time whether these regulations will be implemented or what form they will take, increased regulation of non-bank credit extension could negatively impact our operations, cash flows or financial condition, impose additional costs on us, intensify the regulatory supervision of us or otherwise adversely affect our business. 40 Pending legislation may allow us to incur additional leverage. Recently, legislation was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives intended to revise certain regulations applicable to BDCs. The legislation provides for (i) increasing the amount of funds BDCs may borrow by reducing asset to debt limitations from 2:1 to 3:2, (ii) permitting BDCs to file registration statements with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that incorporate information from already-filed reports by reference, (iii) utilizing other streamlined registration processes afforded to operating companies, and (iv) allowing BDCs to own investment adviser subsidiaries. There are no assurances as to when the legislation will be enacted by Congress, if at all, or, if enacted, what final form the legislation would take. Loss of status as a RIC would reduce our net asset value and distributable income. We have qualified as a RIC under the Code. As a RIC, we do not have to pay federal income taxes on our income (including realized gains) that we distribute to our shareholders, provided that we satisfy certain distribution and other requirements. Accordingly, we are not permitted under accounting rules to establish reserves for taxes on our unrealized capital gains. If we fail to qualify for RIC status in any year, to the extent that we had unrealized gains, we would have to establish reserves for taxes, which would reduce our net asset value and the amount potentially available for distribution. In addition, if we, as a RIC, were to decide to make a deemed distribution of net realized capital gains and retain the net realized capital gains, we would have to establish appropriate reserves for taxes that we would have to pay on behalf of shareholders. It is possible that establishing reserves for taxes could have a material adverse effect on the value of our common stock. See “Item 1. Business— Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Taxation as a RIC.” Our board of directors may change our investment objective, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval. Our board of directors has the authority, except as otherwise provided in the 1940 Act, to modify or waive certain of our operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without shareholder approval. However, absent shareholder approval, we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or withdraw our election as, a BDC. Under Delaware law, we also cannot be dissolved without prior stockholder approval except by judicial action. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results and the price value of our common stock. Nevertheless, any such changes could adversely affect our business and impair our ability to make distributions. OFS Advisor can resign on 60 days’ notice, and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. OFS Advisor has the right, under the Investment Advisory Agreement, to resign at any time upon not less than 60 days’ written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If OFS Advisor resigns, we may not be able to find a new investment adviser or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, business and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and investment activities is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by OFS Advisor and its affiliates. Even if we are able to retain comparable management, whether internal or external, the integration of such management and their lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. 41 OFS Services can resign from its role as our Administrator under the Administration Agreement, and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. OFS Services has the right to resign under the Administration Agreement, whether we have found a replacement or not. If OFS Services resigns, we may not be able to find a new administrator or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, business and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and administrative activities is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a service provider or individuals with the expertise possessed by OFS Services. Even if we are able to retain a comparable service provider or individuals to perform such services, whether internal or external, their integration into our business and lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. We incur significant costs as a result of being a public company. As a publicly traded company, we incur legal, accounting and other expenses, including costs associated with the periodic reporting requirements applicable to a company whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act, as well as additional corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules implemented by the SEC. Efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us and the market price of our common stock. Under current SEC rules, beginning with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2013, we are required to report on our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules and regulations of the SEC. We are required to review our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis, and to evaluate and disclose changes in our internal control over financial reporting on a quarterly and annual basis. As a result, we expect to incur additional expenses that may negatively impact our financial performance and our ability to make distributions. This process also results in a diversion of management’s time and attention. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations, and we may not be able to ensure that the process is effective or that our internal control over financial reporting is or will be effective in a timely manner. In the event that we are unable to maintain or achieve compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, we and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and our business and stock price may be adversely affected if we have not adequately addressed the weakness. As a result of our evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2013, management identified a material weakness related to the appropriate accounting treatment for the Tamarix Acquisitions. Specifically, the Company initially considered treating the Tamarix Acquisitions as a business combination governed by ASC 805, albeit reflecting as a day one loss, rather than recording as goodwill or other intangibles, the excess purchase price over the fair value of the net identifiable assets. The Company initially believed that approach, which would constitute a departure from GAAP, might be appropriate, because the traditional business combination treatment (including recognition of goodwill) under ASC Topic 805 did not appear to appropriately reflect a business combination between two investment companies, especially in the Company’s situation, where the acquirer (OFS Capital) had already been fair valuing the assets of the acquiree (Tamarix LP) for a number of quarters. The Company ultimately decided that any departure from ASC 805 was not warranted. As described in “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures- Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting,” future business combination transactions will be prepared in accordance with ASC 805. We believe that the audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are accurate. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our stock could decline significantly, we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business, and our business and financial condition could be harmed. Risks Related to Our Investments Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results. Many of our portfolio companies are susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets are likely to increase and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during these periods. Adverse economic conditions may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing our investments and harm our operating results. 42 A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, lenders in certain cases can be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by them when they become too involved in the borrower’s business or exercise control over a borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender liability claim, including as a result of actions taken if we render significant managerial assistance to the borrower. Further, if one of our portfolio companies were to file for bankruptcy protection, even though we may have structured our investment as senior secured debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might re-characterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to claims of other creditors. Market conditions have materially and adversely affected debt and equity capital markets in the United States and around the world. Beginning in 2007 and continuing into 2014, global financial markets and the global economy, including U.S. financial markets and the U.S. economy, have experienced periods of extreme volatility and disruption resulting in uncertainty in the financial and credit markets in general. This uncertainty in the financial and credit markets has reduced the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole and to financial firms in particular. To the extent that we wish to use debt to fund our investments, the debt capital that will be available to us, if at all, may be at a higher cost, and on terms and conditions that may be less favorable, than what we expect, which could negatively affect our financial performance and results. A prolonged period of market illiquidity could cause us to reduce the volume of loans we originate and/or fund below historical levels and adversely affect the value of our portfolio investments, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Deterioration of market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business. Our investments in leveraged portfolio companies may be risky, and shareholders could lose all or part of their investment. Investment in leveraged companies involves a number of significant risks. Leveraged companies in which we invest may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold. Such developments may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of our realizing any guarantees that we may have obtained in connection with our investment. In addition, our mezzanine loans are generally subordinated to senior loans and are generally unsecured. As such, other creditors may rank senior to us in the event of an insolvency. Smaller leveraged companies also may have less predictable operating results and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance their expansion or maintain their competitive position. Investing in our securities may involve an above-average degree of risk. Historically, the bulk of our investment portfolio consisted of senior secured loans to middle-market companies in the United States. We have expanded into additional asset classes, including investments in subordinated loans and, to a lesser extent, warrants and other minority equity securities, which may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investments, volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies may be highly speculative and aggressive, and therefore, an investment in our securities may not be suitable for someone with lower risk tolerance. Our investments in private and middle-market portfolio companies are risky, and we could lose all or part of our investment. Investment in private and middle-market companies involves a number of significant risks. Generally, little public information exists about these companies, and we rely on the ability of OFS Advisor’s investment professionals to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. Middle-market companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of our realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment. In addition, such companies typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. Additionally, middle-market companies are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons. Therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us. Middle-market companies also may be parties to litigation and may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence. In addition, our executive officers, directors and OFS Advisor may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies. 43 If the assets securing the loans that we make decrease in value, then we may lack sufficient collateral to cover losses. We will at times take a security interest in the available assets of our portfolio companies, including the equity interests of their subsidiaries and, in some cases, the equity interests of our portfolio companies held by their shareholders. There is a risk that the collateral securing these types of loans may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business and market conditions, including as a result of the inability of a portfolio company to raise additional capital. In some circumstances, our lien could be subordinated to claims of other creditors. Additionally, deterioration in a portfolio company’s financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the collateral for these types of loans. Moreover, in the case of certain of our investments, we do not have a first lien position on the collateral. Consequently, the fact that a loan may be secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the loan’s terms, or that we will be able to collect on the loan should we be forced to enforce our remedies. We may suffer a loss if a portfolio company defaults on a loan and the underlying collateral is not sufficient. In the event of a default by a portfolio company on a secured loan, we will only have recourse to the assets collateralizing the loan. If the underlying collateral value is less than the loan amount, we will suffer a loss. In the event of bankruptcy of a portfolio company, we may not have full recourse to its assets in order to satisfy our loan, or our loan may be subject to equitable subordination. In addition, certain of our loans are subordinate to other debt of the portfolio company. If a portfolio company defaults on our loan or on debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a portfolio company bankruptcy, our loan may be satisfied only after the debt senior to our loan receives payment. Where debt senior to our loan exists, the presence of intercreditor arrangements may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies (for the duration of “standstill” periods), and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to the portfolio company. Bankruptcy and portfolio company litigation can significantly increase collection losses and the time needed for us to acquire the underlying collateral in the event of a default, during which time the collateral may decline in value, causing us to suffer losses. If the value of collateral underlying our loan declines or interest rates increase during the term of our loan, a portfolio company may not be able to obtain the funds necessary to repay our loan at maturity through refinancing. Decreasing collateral value and/or increasing interest rates may hinder a portfolio company’s ability to refinance our loan because the underlying collateral cannot satisfy the debt service coverage requirements necessary to obtain new financing. If a borrower is unable to repay our loan at maturity, we could suffer a loss which may adversely impact our financial performance. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. All of our assets are presently invested in illiquid securities, and a substantial portion of our investments in leveraged companies is subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or is otherwise less liquid than more broadly traded public securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. We may also face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we, OFS Advisor, OFSAM or any of its other affiliates have material nonpublic information regarding such portfolio company. Price declines and illiquidity in the corporate debt markets may adversely affect the fair value of our portfolio investments, reducing our net asset value through increased net unrealized depreciation. As a BDC, we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors. As part of the valuation process, we may take into account the following types of factors, if relevant, in determining the fair value of our investments: •a comparison of the portfolio company’s securities to publicly traded securities; •the enterprise value of a portfolio company; •the nature and realizable value of any collateral; •the portfolio company’s ability to make payments and its earnings and cash flows; •the markets in which the portfolio company does business; and •changes in the interest rate environment and the credit markets generally that may affect the price at which similar investments may be made in the future and other relevant factors. When an external event such as a purchase transaction, public offering or subsequent equity sale occurs, we use the pricing indicated by the external event to corroborate our valuation. We record decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments as unrealized depreciation. Declines in prices and liquidity in the corporate debt markets may result in significant net unrealized depreciation in our portfolio. The effect of all of these factors on our portfolio may reduce our net asset value by increasing net unrealized depreciation in our portfolio. Depending on market conditions, we could incur substantial realized losses and may suffer additional unrealized losses in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 44 We are a non-diversified management investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, and therefore we are not limited with respect to the proportion of our assets that may be invested in securities of a single issuer. We are classified as a non-diversified management investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, which means that we are not be limited by the 1940 Act with respect to the proportion of our assets that we may invest in securities of a single issuer. To the extent that we assume large positions in the securities of a small number of issuers, our net asset value may fluctuate to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company as a result of changes in the financial condition or the market’s assessment of the issuer. We may also be more susceptible to any single economic or regulatory occurrence than a diversified investment company. Beyond our asset diversification requirements as a RIC under the Code, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments could be concentrated in relatively few portfolio companies. Our portfolio may be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries, which will subject us to a risk of significant loss if any of these companies defaults on its obligations under any of its debt instruments or if there is a downturn in a particular industry. Although we believe our portfolio is well-diversified across companies and industries, our portfolio is and may in the future be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries. Beyond the asset diversification requirements associated with our qualification as a RIC under the Code, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification. As a result, the aggregate returns we realize may be significantly adversely affected if a small number of investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. Additionally, while we are not targeting any specific industries, our investments may be concentrated in relatively few industries. As a result, a downturn in any particular industry in which we are invested could also significantly impact the aggregate returns we realize. We may hold the debt securities of leveraged companies that may, due to the significant volatility of such companies, enter into bankruptcy proceedings. Although we generally do not expect to make investments in companies or securities that OFS Advisor determines to be distressed investments, we may hold debt securities of leveraged companies that may, due to the significant volatility of such companies, enter into bankruptcy proceedings or experience similar financial distress. The bankruptcy process has a number of significant inherent risks. Many events in a bankruptcy proceeding are the product of contested matters and adversary proceedings and are beyond the control of the creditors. A bankruptcy filing by an issuer may adversely and permanently affect the issuer. If the proceeding is converted to a liquidation, the value of the issuer may not equal the liquidation value that was believed to exist at the time of the investment. The duration of a bankruptcy proceeding is also difficult to predict, and a creditor’s return on investment can be adversely affected by delays until the plan of reorganization or liquidation ultimately becomes effective. The administrative costs in connection with a bankruptcy proceeding are frequently high and would be paid out of the debtor’s estate prior to any return to creditors. Because the standards for classification of claims under bankruptcy law are vague, our influence with respect to the class of securities or other obligations we own may be lost by increases in the number and amount of claims in the same class or by different classification and treatment. In the early stages of the bankruptcy process, it is often difficult to estimate the extent of, or even to identify, any contingent claims that might be made. In addition, certain claims that have priority by law (for example, claims for taxes) may be substantial. Our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our portfolio. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as “follow-on” investments, in seeking to: •increase or maintain in whole or in part our position as a creditor or equity ownership percentage in a portfolio company; •exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing; or •preserve or enhance the value of our investment. We have discretion to make follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources. Failure on our part to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we may not want to increase our level of risk, because we prefer other opportunities or because we are inhibited by compliance with BDC requirements or the desire to maintain our RIC status. Our ability to make follow-on investments may also be limited by OFS Advisor’s allocation policy. 45 Because we generally do not hold controlling equity interests in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to exercise control over our portfolio companies or to prevent decisions by management of our portfolio companies that could decrease the value of our investments. Although we may do so in the future, we generally do not hold controlling equity positions in our portfolio companies. As a result of not holding controlling equity interests in our portfolio companies, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and that the management and/or shareholders of a portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity of the debt and equity investments that we typically hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company and may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments. Defaults by our portfolio companies will harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its assets. This could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize such portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt or equity securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We have invested a substantial portion of our capital in first lien, unitranche, second-lien and subordinated loans issued by our portfolio companies. The portfolio companies may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt securities in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the debt securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying senior creditors, the portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share any distributions on an equal and ratable basis with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. Additionally, certain loans that we make to portfolio companies may be secured on a second-priority basis by the same collateral securing first-priority debt of such companies. The first-priority liens on the collateral will secure the portfolio company’s obligations under any outstanding senior debt and may secure certain other future debt that may be permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under the agreements governing the loans. The holders of obligations secured by first-priority liens on the collateral will generally control the liquidation of, and be entitled to receive proceeds from, any realization of the collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the loan obligations secured by the second-priority liens after payment in full of all obligations secured by the first-priority liens on the collateral. If such proceeds were not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the loan obligations secured by the second-priority liens, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, would only have an unsecured claim against the portfolio company’s remaining assets, if any. The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing the loans we make to our portfolio companies with more senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements that we enter into with the holders of such more senior debt. Under a typical intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the first-priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral will be at the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the first-priority liens: •the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral; •the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings; •the approval of amendments to collateral documents; •releases of liens on the collateral; and •waivers of past defaults under collateral documents. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if our rights are adversely affected. 46 We may also make unsecured loans to portfolio companies, meaning that such loans will not benefit from any interest in collateral of such companies. Liens on such portfolio companies’ collateral, if any, will secure the portfolio company’s obligations under its outstanding secured debt and may secure certain future debt that is permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under its secured loan agreements. The holders of obligations secured by such liens will generally control the liquidation of, and be entitled to receive proceeds from, any realization of such collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of such collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from sales of such collateral would be sufficient to satisfy our unsecured loan obligations after payment in full of all secured loan obligations. If such proceeds were not sufficient to repay the outstanding secured loan obligations, then our unsecured claims would rank equally with the unpaid portion of such secured creditors’ claims against the portfolio company’s remaining assets, if any. If we make subordinated investments, the obligors or the portfolio companies may not generate sufficient cash flow to service their debt obligations to us. We make subordinated investments that rank below other obligations of the obligor in right of payment. Subordinated investments are subject to greater risk of default than senior obligations as a result of adverse changes in the financial condition of the obligor or in general economic conditions. If we make a subordinated investment in a portfolio company, the portfolio company may be highly leveraged, and its relatively high debt-to-equity ratio may create increased risks that its operations might not generate sufficient cash flow to service all of its debt obligations. The disposition of our investments may result in contingent liabilities. A significant portion of our investments involve private securities. In connection with the disposition of an investment in private securities, we may be required to make representations about the business and financial affairs of the portfolio company typical of those made in connection with the sale of a business. We may also be required to indemnify the purchasers of such investment to the extent that any such representations turn out to be inaccurate, or with respect to potential liabilities. These arrangements may result in contingent liabilities that ultimately result in funding obligations that we must satisfy through our return of distributions previously made to us. Our base management fee may induce OFS Advisor to cause us to incur leverage. Our base management fee is payable based upon our total assets, other than cash, cash equivalents, and intangible asset and goodwill resulting from our acquisitions of the remaining ownership interests in SBIC I LP and SBIC I GP on December 4, 2013, but including assets purchased with borrowed amounts and including assets owned by any consolidated entity. This fee structure may encourage OFS Advisor to cause us to borrow money to finance additional investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of borrowed money may increase the likelihood of default, which would disfavor holders of our common stock. Given the subjective nature of the investment decisions made by OFS Advisor on our behalf, our board of directors may not be able to monitor this potential conflict of interest effectively. Our incentive fee may induce OFS Advisor to make certain investments, including speculative investments. The incentive fee payable by us to OFS Advisor may create an incentive for OFS Advisor to make investments on our behalf that are riskier or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The way in which the incentive fee payable to OFS Advisor is determined may encourage OFS Advisor to use leverage to increase the return on our investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would disfavor our shareholders. OFS Advisor receives an incentive fee based, in part, upon net capital gains realized on our investments. Unlike that portion of the incentive fee based on income, there is no hurdle rate applicable to the portion of the incentive fee based on net capital gains. As a result, OFS Advisor may have a tendency to invest more capital in investments that are likely to result in capital gains as compared to income producing securities. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns. We may invest, to the extent permitted by law, in the securities and instruments of other investment companies, including private funds, and, to the extent we so invest, will bear our ratable share of any such investment company’s expenses, including management and performance fees. We will also remain obligated to pay management and incentive fees to OFS Advisor with respect to the assets invested in the securities and instruments of other investment companies. With respect to each of these investments, each of our shareholders will bear his or her share of the management and incentive fee of OFS Advisor as well as indirectly bearing the management and performance fees and other expenses of any investment companies in which we invest. For example, by virtue of our investment in OFS Capital WM, our shareholders indirectly incur management fees payable to the loan manager of the OFS Capital WM portfolio. 47 Our board of directors is charged with protecting our interests by monitoring how OFS Advisor addresses these and other conflicts of interests associated with its management services and compensation. While our board of directors is not expected to review or approve each borrowing or incurrence of leverage, our independent directors will periodically review OFS Advisor’s services and fees. In connection with these reviews, our independent directors will consider whether our fees and expenses (including those related to leverage) remain appropriate. OFS Advisor’s liability is limited under the Investment Advisory Agreement, and we have agreed to indemnify OFS Advisor against certain liabilities, which may lead OFS Advisor to act in a riskier manner on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. Under the Investment Advisory Agreement, OFS Advisor will not assume any responsibility to us other than to render the services called for under that agreement, and it will not be responsible for any action of our board of directors in following or declining to follow OFS Advisor’s advice or recommendations. Under the terms of the Investment Advisory Agreement, OFS Advisor and its and its affiliates’ respective officers, directors, members, managers, shareholders and employees will not be liable to us, any subsidiary of ours, our directors, our shareholders or any subsidiary’s shareholders or partners for acts or omissions performed in accordance with and pursuant to the Investment Advisory Agreement, except those resulting from acts constituting gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of such person’s duties under the Investment Advisory Agreement. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify OFS Advisor and its and its affiliates’ respective officers, directors, members, managers, shareholders and employees from and against any claims or liabilities, including reasonable legal fees and other expenses reasonably incurred, arising out of or in connection with our business and operations or any action taken or omitted on our behalf pursuant to authority granted by the Investment Advisory Agreement, except where attributable to gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of such person’s duties under the Investment Advisory Agreement. These protections may lead OFS Advisor to act in a riskier manner when acting on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. We may be subject to additional risks if we engage in hedging transactions and/or invest in foreign securities. The 1940 Act generally requires that 70% of our investments be in issuers each of whom is organized under the laws of, and has its principal place of business in, any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands or any other possession of the United States. Our investment strategy does not presently contemplate investments in securities of non-U.S. companies. We expect that these investments would focus on the same junior debt securities investments that we make in U.S. middle-market companies and accordingly would be complementary to our overall strategy and enhance the diversity of our holdings. Investing in securities of emerging market issuers involves many risks, including economic, social, political, financial, tax and security conditions in the emerging market, potential inflationary economic environments, regulation by foreign governments, different accounting standards and political uncertainties. Economic, social, political, financial, tax and security conditions also could negatively affect the value of emerging market companies. These factors could include changes in the emerging market government’s economic and fiscal policies, the possible imposition of, or changes in, currency exchange laws or other laws or restrictions applicable to the emerging market companies or investments in their securities and the possibility of fluctuations in the rate of exchange between currencies. Engaging in either hedging transactions or investing in foreign securities would entail additional risks to our shareholders. We could, for example, use instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors and, if we were to invest in foreign securities, we could use instruments such as forward contracts or currency options and borrow under a credit facility in currencies selected to minimize our foreign currency exposure. In each such case, we generally would seek to hedge against fluctuations of the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in market interest rates or currency exchange rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions would not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of the positions declined. However, such hedging could establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions could also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the underlying portfolio positions increased. Moreover, it might not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that was so generally anticipated that we would not be able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. While we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce currency exchange rate and interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates could result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged could vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we might not seek to establish a perfect correlation between the hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation could prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. In addition, it might not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against currency fluctuations affecting the value of securities denominated in non-U.S. currencies because the value of those securities would likely fluctuate as a result of factors not related to currency fluctuations. 48 We may not realize gains from our equity investments. When we invest in certain senior secured and subordinated loans, we may acquire warrants or other equity securities of portfolio companies as well. We also may invest in equity securities directly. To the extent we hold equity investments, except as described below, we will attempt to dispose of them and realize gains upon our disposition of them. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and may decline in value. As a result, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. In the case of OFS Capital WM, our wholly-owned subsidiary, we will not receive direct benefits from the sale of assets in its portfolio. Rather, our return on our investment in such assets will depend on the ability of OFS Capital WM’s loan portfolio to generate cash flow in excess of payments required to be made to other parties under the terms of the OFS Capital WM Facility documentation and distribution of the excess to us. Risks Related to Our Common Stock There is a risk that shareholders may not receive distributions or that our distributions may not grow over time and a portion of our distributions may be a return of capital. We have made distributions on a quarterly basis to our shareholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure shareholders that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Our ability to pay distributions might be adversely affected by the impact of one or more of the risk factors described in this annual report on Form 10-K. Due to the asset coverage test applicable to us under the 1940 Act as a BDC, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. As with any stock, the market price of our common stock will fluctuate with market conditions and other factors. The market price and liquidity of the market for shares of our common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include: •significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of business development companies or other companies in our sector, which is not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; •changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs, SBICs or business development companies; •loss of RIC or BDC status; •failure of SBIC I LP to maintain its status as an SBIC; •changes or perceived changes in earnings or variations in operating results; •changes or perceived changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; •changes in accounting guidelines governing valuation of our investments; •any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; •departure of OFS Advisor’s, OFSC’s or any of their affiliates’ key personnel; •operating performance of companies comparable to us; •general economic trends and other external factors; and •loss of a major funding source. Certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. The Delaware General Corporation Law, our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us. We have also adopted measures that may make it difficult for a third party to obtain control of us, including provisions of our articles of incorporation dividing our board of directors into three classes with the term of one class expiring at each annual meeting of shareholders. These anti-takeover provisions may inhibit a change in control in circumstances that could give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price of our common stock. 49 Our common stock may trade below its net asset value per share, which limits our ability to raise additional equity capital. If our common stock is trading below its net asset value per share, we will generally not be able to issue additional shares of our common stock at its market price without first obtaining the approval for such issuance from our shareholders and our independent directors. Shares of BDCs, including shares of our common stock, have traded at discounts to their net asset values. As of December 31, 2013, our net asset value per share was $14.58. The daily average closing price of our shares on the Nasdaq Global Market for the year ended December 31, 2013 was $12.81. If our common stock trades below net asset value, the higher the cost of equity capital may result in it being unattractive to raise new equity, which may limit our ability to grow. The risk of trading below net asset value is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share may decline. We cannot predict whether shares of our common stock will trade above, at or below our net asset value. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 