RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business If we are not able to realize the value of our technology and intellectual property by licensing/selling such technology, or by pursuing OEM and high volume sales opportunities, and, in addition, if we are unable to obtain additional financing while seeking such business opportunities, we may have to cease our operations. On March 22, 2012, we initiated the 2012 Reorganization, which is designed to focus our business on maximizing and realizing the value of our technology and intellectual property by licensing and/or selling such technology (or part of it) to third parties, while continuing to pursue new OEM and high volume sales opportunities. The reorganization, which is designed to significantly reduce our ongoing operating expenses, included a staff reduction and a voluntary reduction in the compensation of, among others, the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer, chief financial officer and the chief operating officer. Following the 2012 Reorganization, we dismissed most of our employees. We currently employ our management and customer support personnel in order to continue supporting our current customer base, manage the Company, maintain the value of its technology and intellectual property assets and seek business opportunities. While our research and development, regulatory and some of our commercialization efforts are currently on hold, we continue to support our current customer base and continue to accommodate orders for our Spring Universal Infusion Sets. There can be no assurance that our efforts to license and/or sell our technology (or part of it) to third parties will succeed, and there is no assurance that we will be able to find OEM and high volume sales opportunities. While we significantly reduced our monthly cash burn following the 2012 Reorganization, we expect that we will need to continue spending substantial amounts in order to continue our operations as a going concern while we seek opportunities to license and/or sell our technology, and to engage in OEM and high volume sales transactions. Additional financing may not be available to us on a timely basis on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, any additional financing may be dilutive to our shareholders or may require us to grant a lender a security interest in our assets. If we are not able to realize the value of our technology and intellectual property by licensing/selling such technology, or by pursuing OEM and high volume sales opportunities, and if we are not able to obtain sufficient funding for our ongoing business activity while seeking such business opportunities, we do not expect to have adequate liquidity to meet our ongoing activities and liabilities, and we may have to cease our operations. Our losses raise significant doubts as to our ability to continue a going concern. The financial statements included in this Form 20-F include a “going concern” note, indicating that our management believes that the current market conditions and the Company's financial position raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include, however, any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. We also wrote off our goodwill by NIS 7,479 thousand, as of December 31, 2011. If we are unable to obtain adequate capital funding in the future, we may not be able to continue as a going concern, which would have an adverse effect on our business and operations, and investors’ investment in us may decline. 4 We have a history of losses, may incur future losses and may not achieve profitability, or may need to cease our operations if we do not get additional funding. We have incurred net losses in each fiscal year since we commenced operations as a medical device company in late 2004. We incurred net losses of approximately NIS 48 million (approximately US$13 million) in 2011, approximately NIS 46 million (approximately US$12 million) in 2010 and approximately NIS 19 million (approximately US 5 million) in 2009. As of December 31, 2011, our accumulated deficit was approximately NIS 231 million (approximately US$60 million). Our losses could continue for the foreseeable future. The extent of our future operating losses and the timing of becoming profitable are highly uncertain, and we may never achieve or sustain profitability or may need to cease our operations. We have a limited operating history and we may not succeed in generating significant revenues and becoming profitable. Since commencing our operations as a medical device company, we have focused on the research and development of our products and have a limited operating history. We sell our Spring Universal Infusion Sets in Europe and in North America, and we also commenced pilot sales of our Spring Adi pump during 2009 and 2010. Our other products are in various stages of research and development, although our research and development activity is currently on hold. We may not succeed in generating significant revenues and the future success of our business cannot be determined at this time. In addition, we have very limited experience in commercializing our products and face a number of challenges with respect to our commercialization efforts, including, among others: • we may not have adequate financial or other resources; • we may fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals for our products in our target markets or may face adverse regulatory or legal actions relating to our products even if regulatory approval is obtained; • we may not be able to manufacture our products in commercial quantities, at an adequate quality or at an acceptable cost; • we may not be able to efficiently manage our products inventory in terms of SKUs, locations and products shelf-life; • we may not be able to establish adequate sales and distribution channels; • healthcare professionals and diabetics may not accept our products; • we may not be aware of possible complications from the continued use of our products since we have limited clinical experience with respect to the actual use of our products; • technological breakthroughs in diabetes monitoring, treatment and prevention may reduce the demand for our products; • changes in the market for insulin pumps, new alliances between existing market participants and the entrance of new market participants may interfere with our market penetration efforts; • third-party payors may not agree to reimburse providers or diabetics for any or all of the purchase price of our products, which may adversely affect users’ willingness to purchase our products; • uncertainty as to market demand may result in inefficient pricing of our products; • we may fail to achieve our goals in our research and development activities; • we may face third party claims of intellectual property infringement; and • we are dependent upon the results of ongoing clinical studies relating to our products and the products of our competitors. The occurrence of any one or more of these events may limit our ability to successfully commercialize our products, which in turn could prevent us from generating significant revenues and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations in which case we may need to cease our operations. 5 We expect to derive all of our revenues in the near future from sales of the Spring Universal Infusion Sets and our inability to successfully commercialize this product, or any subsequent decline in demand for this product, could severely harm our ability to generate revenues and become profitable. We currently rely solely on the successful commercialization of our Spring Universal Infusion Sets to generate revenues and, consequently, we are vulnerable to fluctuations in demand for these products. Fluctuations in demand may be due to many factors, including, among others: • market acceptance of a new product, including healthcare professionals’ and users’ preferences; • development of pumps that are not compatible with our Spring Universal Infusion Set; • technological innovations in diabetes monitoring, treatment and prevention; • adverse medical events for diabetics using our products, whether actually resulting from the use of our products or not; • changes in regulatory policies toward insulin pumps; • changes in regulatory approval or clearance requirements for our products; • failure in our efforts to license and/or sell our technology (or part of it) to third parties, or to find OEM and high volume sales opportunities; • third party claims of intellectual property infringement; and • budget constraints of diabetics and the availability of reimbursement or insurance coverage from third-party payors for these products. In addition, the demand for our Spring Universal Infusion Sets may also be adversely affected by the following factors: • increases in market acceptance of insulin patch pumps, which do not require infusion sets; and • adverse responses from certain of our competitors to the offering of our Spring Universal Infusion Sets as a generic device that is compatible with their pumps. If we are unable to successfully commercialize our Spring Universal Infusion Sets, or if demand for this product declines, our business and ability to generate revenues could be severely harmed. If healthcare professionals do not recommend our products to their patients, our products may not achieve market acceptance or we may not be able to sell/license our technology and intellectual property. In such case, we may not become profitable and may be in a position where we have to cease our operations. Diabetics are generally referred by their healthcare professional to a specified device, including insulin pumps, which are usually purchased by prescription. If healthcare professionals, including physicians and diabetes educators, do not recommend or prescribe our products to their patients, our products may not achieve market acceptance or we may not be able to sell/license our technology and intellectual property or enter into OEM transactions. In such case, we may not become profitable and we may be in a position where we have to cease our operations. In addition, physicians have historically been slow to change their medical treatment practices because of perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products. Delayed adoption of our products by healthcare professionals could lead to a delayed adoption by patients and third-party payors. Healthcare professionals may not recommend or prescribe our products until, among others: • there is sufficient long-term clinical evidence to convince them to alter their existing treatment methods and device recommendations; • there are recommendations from other prominent physicians, diabetes educators and/or diabetes associations that our products are safe and effective; • we obtain favorable data from clinical studies for our products; • reimbursement or insurance coverage from third party payors is available; and • they become familiar with the complexities of insulin pumps. 6 We cannot predict when, if ever, healthcare professionals and patients may adopt the use of our products. Since we have only begun to commercialize our products, long-term clinical evidence is not yet available. Even if favorable data is obtained from clinical studies for our products, there can be no assurance that prominent physicians, diabetes educators and/or diabetes associations would endorse our products or that future clinical studies will continue to produce favorable data regarding our products. In addition, prolonged market experience may also be a pre-requisite to reimbursement or insurance coverage from third-party payors. If our products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by patients, healthcare professionals and third-party payors, we may not generate significant product revenues and may not be able to realize the value of our technology and intellectual property by selling/licensing it to third parties, or by entering into OEM and high volume sales opportunities. In such case, we may not become profitable and we may be in a position where we have to cease our operations. We face competition from numerous competitors, most of whom have longer operating histories and far greater resources than we have, which may make it more difficult for us to achieve significant market penetration in our target markets and which may allow them to introduce competing products. The medical device industry is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants, particularly in the United States and Europe. Our products compete with a number of existing insulin delivery devices and other methods for the treatment of diabetes and our success depends on our ability to effectively compete in this global market. Most of our competitors are large, well-capitalized companies with significantly larger market shares and resources than we have and they are able to spend more aggressively on product development, marketing, sales and other product initiatives than we can. Medtronic MiniMed, a division of Medtronic has been the market leader in insulin pumps for many years and has a majority share of the insulin pump market in the United States and Europe. In addition, low cost pumps distributed mainly by competitors in South East Asia, may affect the demand for our pumps in the relevant markets. Other significant suppliers in the United States are Animas Corporation, a division of Johnson & Johnson, and Roche Insulin Delivery Systems Inc., or Roche, which also holds a significant market share in Europe. Although significantly smaller in size, Insulet Corporation, or Insulet, is increasingly becoming a participant in the medical device industry. Many of these and other competitors have, among others: • significant brand name recognition; • established relationships with healthcare professionals, customers and third-party payors; • established distribution networks and channels; • additional product lines and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer higher discounts or other incentives to gain a competitive advantage; and/or • greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing, customer support and intellectual property litigation. Our ability to compete effectively in our market depends upon our ability to distinguish our company and our products from our competitors and their products based on various factors, including, among others: • product performance; • product pricing; • brand name recognition; • product differentiation; • compliance with supply obligations and customer support; • customer retention rates; • intellectual property protection; • the success and timing of new product development and introductions; and • the development of successful distribution channels. 7 In addition, because most of our competitors have significantly greater product development resources than us, they or other well-capitalized companies may at any time develop additional products for the treatment of diabetes which could render our products obsolete or substantially reduce our revenues. For example, market participants are working to develop additional cost-effective insulin delivery methods, such as an insulin spray, which Generex Biotechnology Corp. has already launched in India, and an inhaled insulin product, which MannKind Corporation has developed. Although we believe that these products are less effective in treating diabetes and do not compete directly with insulin pump therapy, their successful launch could adversely affect the demand for our products and, consequently, our business, financial condition and results of operations. With respect to diabetes treatment options, we also compete with multiple daily injection therapy, or MDI therapy, which utilizes substantially less expensive delivery methods than insulin therapy supported by our insulin pumps, such as insulin pen injectors and insulin syringe and needle sets. More recently, MDI therapy has been made more effective by the introduction of long-acting insulin analogs by both Sanofi-Aventis and Novo Nordisk A/S, and further improvements in the effectiveness of MDI therapy may result in fewer diabetes patients converting from MDI therapy to insulin pump therapy than we expect. In that case, sales of our products may be negatively affected and we may face pricing pressure to remain competitive with MDI therapy, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution channels with third parties, or, alternatively, sell or license our technology to third parties or enter into OEM and high volume sales transactions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed and we may be in a position where we have to cease our operations. We currently do not intend to establish a direct sales force to market and sell our products. Therefore, we must enter into arrangements with third parties to conduct sales and marketing activities on our behalf, or, alternatively, sell or license our technology to third parties or enter into OEM and high volume sales transactions. Arrangements in which third parties conduct sales and marketing activities on our behalf usually result in lower profit margins for us compared to marketing and selling our products directly. In addition, some of our distributors are able to market and sell competing products, which may harm our sales and revenues. We can provide no assurance that our current or future distributors will be successful or effective in selling and marketing our products. If we fail to create effective marketing and distribution channels, or, alternatively, sell or license our technology to third parties or enter into OEM and high volume sales transactions, our ability to generate revenue and achieve our anticipated growth could be adversely affected. Furthermore, even if we create effective marketing and distribution channels, if our distributors experience financial or other difficulties, sales of our products could be reduced, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed and we may be in a position where we have to cease our operations. We are dependent upon third-party suppliers, which make us vulnerable to supply problems and price fluctuations. We rely on a number of third-party suppliers to manufacture the components of our Spring Universal Infusion Sets.. Although none of our third-party suppliers is a sole-source supplier, we currently do not have a second-source supplier for some of our components. We also do not have supply agreements with our third-party suppliers (other than our manufacturing contractor – UPG (Suzhou) EPZ Co. Ltd.) and we generally make our purchases on a purchase order basis. Our third-party suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing due to a variety of reasons, including, among others, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with applicable regulations, equipment malfunctions and environmental factors, any of which could delay or impede their ability to meet our demand for components. Our reliance on third-party suppliers also subjects us to additional risks that could harm our business, including, among others: • we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of our components or products in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms; • since we are not a major customer of many of our third-party suppliers, these suppliers may prioritize other customers’ needs over ours; • our third-party suppliers, especially new suppliers, may make manufacturing errors that may not be detected by our quality assurance testing, which could negatively affect the efficacy or safety of our products or cause shipment delays due to such errors; • our suppliers may encounter financial or other hardships unrelated to our demand, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements; and • our suppliers may not maintain their regulatory approvals and as a result we may not be able use their products or services, which may result delays and reduction of our production capacity. 8 We have limited manufacturing capabilities and, if we are unable to scale our manufacturing operations to meet anticipated market demand, our growth could be limited and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. We currently have limited resources, facilities and experience in commercially manufacturing sufficient quantities of our products to meet the demand we expect from our expanded commercialization efforts. We expect to face certain technical challenges if we increase manufacturing capacity, including, among others, equipment design and automation, material procurement, lower than expected yields and increased scrap costs, as well as challenges related to maintaining quality control and assurance standards. We entered into an a manufacturing and supply agreement with UPG (Suzhou) EPZ Co. Ltd., or UPG, a subsidiary of United Plastics Group, Inc., for the design and manufacturing of the disposable parts of our Spring Zone Pump, our Spring Universal Infusion Sets and our Spring Hybrid Patch Pump. On March 28, 2011, UPG has commenced the mass production of our Spring Universal Infusion Sets. If UPG will not supply us with the products for any reason, sales of our products could be significantly reduced, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. If we are unable to scale our manufacturing capabilities to meet market demand, our growth could be limited and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Insulin pumps are automated machines susceptible to malfunction, which may result in severe adverse medical events. If manufacturers of insulin pumps are not able to reduce the occurrence of malfunctions, or if insulin pumps are perceived to be riskier than other insulin delivery devices, the market for insulin pumps may suffer and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Insulin pumps are automated machines susceptible to malfunction. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, has recently reported that there is an increasing trend in software and hardware malfunctions in insulin pumps from several manufacturers. Since insulin pumps are used by diabetes patients who require daily intake of insulin in order to control their blood glucose levels, malfunctions in the operation of insulin pumps could result in improper blood glucose levels and lead to severe adverse medical events and even death. The FDA has examined nearly 17,000 reports of health and other problems related to insulin pumps from 2006 through 2009. Although the reports do not prove a device caused a particular problem, such reports could result in a perception among diabetes patients that insulin pumps are riskier than other insulin delivery devices. In addition, in April 2010, the FDA raised the requirements for approval of insulin infusion pumps and related supplies. The impact has been an increase in the requirement for clinical studies and usability testing for insulin pump therapy. The FDA has indicated in the past that it may undertake additional investigation and may require additional data and information from insulin pump manufacturers when filing adverse event reports about potential insulin pump problems. In order to obtain additional data, the FDA could impose additional requirements or require additional testing of insulin pumps prior to approving or clearing the devices for use or for ensuring their continuing commercial availability. If manufacturers of insulin pumps are not able to reduce the occurrence of malfunctions or if insulin pumps are perceived to be riskier than other insulin delivery devices, the market for insulin pumps may suffer and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. For example, in such case we may not be able to sell or license our technology and intellectual property, or enter into OEM and high volume sales opportunities. In such case, we may be in a position where we have to cease our operations. Our clinical experience to date may not have revealed certain potential long-term complications from our products, which could subject us to product liability claims if our products malfunction in the future. Our clinical trials have been limited to usability and safety trails. The number of participants in these trials was relatively low over a relatively short period of time. In addition, we have a limited history of the use of our products and our customer base is not wide. Therefore, we have a limited ability to discover in advance problems and/or inefficiencies concerning our products and we cannot assure that their long-term use would not result in unanticipated complications. Furthermore, the interim results from our current pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may not be indicative of the clinical results obtained when we examine the patients at later dates. If unanticipated long-term side-effects result from the use of our products, or if our products do not function as expected over time, we could be subject to liability claims and our products would not be widely adopted. 9 Prior to the 2012 Reorganization, substantially most of our operations were conducted at a single location near Haifa, Israel and any disruption at our facility could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Prior to the 2012 Reorganization, substantially all of our operations were conducted at a single location near Haifa, Israel (other than work outsourced to our manufacturing contractor, UPG (Suzhou) EPZ Co. Ltd.). We take precautions to safeguard our facility, including obtaining insurance coverage and implementing health and safety protocols and off-site storage of computer data and part of our raw materials. However, a natural or other disaster, such as a fire or flood or an armed conflict involving Israel, could damage or destroy our facility and our manufacturing equipment or inventory, cause substantial delays in our operations and otherwise cause us to incur additional unanticipated expenses. In addition, the insurance we maintain against fires, floods and other natural disasters may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. Furthermore, we may not be reimbursed for losses resulting from armed conflicts or terrorist attacks in Israel. Following the 2012 Reorganization, we ceased most of our operations, including those conducted in our facility near Haifa. We therefore may, in the future, decide not to retain our facility. However, if we decide to resume our development operations in Israel and retain our facility near Haifa, our facility will again be material to our business. In such case, any damage to our facility due to fire, a natural disaster or casualty event or an armed conflict, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See also “—Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel—Conditions in Israel could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.” If we are unable to manage our international operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Our headquarters and most of operations and employees are located in Israel but we market our products globally. Accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with global operations and our international sales and operations will require significant management attention and financial resources. In addition, our international sales and operations will subject us to risks inherent in international business activities, many of which are beyond our control and include, among others: • foreign certification, registration and other regulatory requirements; • customs clearance and shipping delays; • import and export controls; • trade restrictions (mostly in Arab countries); • multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures; • difficulty forecasting the results of our international operations and managing our inventory due to our reliance on third-party distributors; • differing laws and regulations, business and clinical practices, third-party payor reimbursement policies and patient preferences; • differing intellectual property protection among countries; • difficulties staffing and managing our international operations; • difficulties in penetrating markets in which our competitors’ products are more established; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • political and economic instability, war or acts of terrorism. If we are unable to manage our international operations effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could materially adversely affect our future revenues and operating income. The medical device industry has experienced a significant amount of consolidation resulting in increased competition and pricing pressures. In addition, group purchasing organizations and integrated health delivery networks have served to concentrate purchasing decisions for some customers, which has placed additional pricing pressure on medical device manufacturers and suppliers. Further consolidation in the industry and concentrated purchasing decisions could exert additional pressure on the prices of our products and could harm our future revenues and operating income. 10 We may be subject to product liability lawsuits, which could result in expensive and time-consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages, and an increase in our insurance rates. If our current or future products are found to be defectively designed, manufactured or labeled, or contain defective components or are misused, or if someone claims any of the foregoing, whether or not meritorious, we may become subject to substantial and costly litigation. Any misuse of our devices or failure to adhere to the operating guidelines of our insulin pumps and our insulin infusion sets could cause significant harm to patients, including death. In addition, if our operating guidelines are found to be inadequate, we may be subject to liability claims. Such claims could divert management’s attention from day-to-day responsibilities, be expensive to defend and result in sizable damage awards against us. We maintain product liability insurance to protect against these risks, but we may not have sufficient insurance coverage for all future product liability claims. Any such claims brought against us, whether or not meritorious, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing continuing coverage at reasonable rates, or at all, could damage our reputation in the industry and could reduce our revenues. Product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage would be paid out of cash reserves, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on third parties to manage our pre-clinical and clinical studies and trials and to perform related data collection and analysis and, as a result, we may face costs and delays that are outside of our control. Development of medical devices includes pre-clinical studies and, to the extent required by regulatory authorities, clinical trials. We rely on third parties, including clinical investigators and clinical sites, to manage our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials and to perform related data collection and analysis. Although we have contractual arrangements with these third parties, we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that these parties devote to our studies and trials. If these third parties fail to properly manage our studies and trials, we will be unable to complete them, which could prevent us from obtaining regulatory approvals for our products or achieving market acceptance of our products. Our business is subject to complex environmental legislation that may increase our costs and our risk of noncompliance. Our research and development and manufacturing processes involve the handling of potentially harmful hazardous materials. We are subject to local laws and regulations governing the use, handling, storage and disposal of these materials, and we incur expenses related to compliance with these laws and regulations. If we are found to have violated environmental, health and safety laws, whether as a result of human error, equipment failure or other causes, we could be held liable for damages, penalties and costs of remedial actions which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the future, we could be subject to additional environmental requirements or existing environmental laws could become more stringent, which may impose greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations. For example, changes to, or restrictions on, permitting requirements or processes, hazardous or biological material storage or handling might require an unplanned capital investment or relocation. If we fail to comply with existing or new environmental laws or regulations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. We may engage in future M&A transactions that could disrupt our business, divert management attention, increase our expenses or otherwise harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. On March 22, 2012, we initiated the 2012 Reorganization, which is designed to focus our business on maximizing and realizing the value of our technology and intellectual property by licensing and/or selling such technology (or part of it) to third parties, while continuing to pursue new OEM and high volume sales opportunities. See "— If we are not able to realize the value of our technology and intellectual property by licensing/selling such technology, or by pursuing OEM and high volume sales opportunities, and, in addition, if we are unable to obtain additional financing while seeking such business opportunities, we may have to cease our operations". While we are currently focusing our efforts on licensing and/or selling our technology, while continuing to pursue new OEM and high volume sales opportunities, we may also, in the future, acquire complementary businesses, products, technologies or other assets. Future M&A transactions may affect our competitive position. In addition, any such M&A transactions may be viewed negatively by our customers, financial markets or investors. Furthermore, any such transaction could pose challenges with respect to the integration of personnel, technologies and operations from the combined businesses and in the retention and motivation of key personnel from such businesses. M&A transactions may also disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management’s attention from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses and otherwise harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 As a foreign private issuer under the U.S. securities laws with shares listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, or NASDAQ, we follow our home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ Listing Rules. As a foreign private issuer under the U.S. securities laws with shares listed on NASDAQ, we are permitted to comply with our home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ Listing Rules. Below is a summary of the significant differences between our corporate governance practices as a foreign private issuer and those required of U.S. domestic companies under the NASDAQ Listing Rules. Our corporate governance practices are derived from (i) the Companies Law, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, (ii) our amended and restated articles of association and (iii) the rules of the NASDAQ applicable to foreign private issuers. As a foreign private issuer we are permitted to follow home country practice in lieu of certain provisions of Section 5600 of the NASDAQ Listing Rules. • Majority of Independent Directors: Under NASDAQ Listing Rule 5605(b), domestic listed companies must have a majority of independent directors. We do not have a majority of independent directors serving on our board of directors, although all of our audit committee members are "independent directors" in accordance with the applicable NASDAQ Listing Rules. • Compensation Committee: Under NASDAQ Listing Rule 5605(d), the compensation of executive officers of domestic listed companies must be determined, or recommended to the board for determination, either by independent directors constituting a majority of the board’s independent directors in a vote in which only independent directors participate, or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors. We do have a compensation committee although it is not composed entirely of independent directors. • Nominating Committee: Under NASDAQ Listing Rule 5605(e), director nominees of domestic listed companies must be selected, or recommended for the board’s selection, either by independent directors constituting a majority of the board’s independent directors in a vote in which only independent directors participate, or a nominating committee comprised solely of independent directors. We do not have a nominating committee and our directors will be recommended by our board of directors for election by our shareholders. • Shareholder Meetings: Under NASDAQ Listing Rule 5620, domestic listed companies must hold an annual meeting of their shareholders within one year after the end of the fiscal year end, solicit proxies and provide proxy statements for all meetings of shareholders and provide for a quorum which in no case shall be less than 33 1/3% of the voting power. Our annual shareholders’ meeting must be convened not later than 15 months after the previous annual meeting, we are required to solicit proxies only with respect to certain but no all matters brought before a shareholders’ meeting, and our quorum is 25% of the voting power of our ordinary shares. • Review of Related Party Transactions: Under NASDAQ Listing Rule 5630, domestic listed companies must conduct an appropriate review and oversight of all related party transactions for potential conflict of interest situations on an ongoing basis by the company’s audit committee or another independent body of the board of directors. Although Israeli law requires us to conduct an appropriate review and maintain oversight of all related-party transactions similar to the NASDAQ Listing Rules, we follow the definitions and requirements of the Companies Law in determining the kind of approval required for a related-party transaction, which tend to be more rigorous than the NASDAQ Listing Rules. See “Item 10B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Directors and Executive Officers” and “Item 10B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Shareholders” for a description of the required approvals under Israeli law of related-party transactions. • Shareholder Approval for Certain Dilutive Events: Under NASDAQ Listing Rule 5635, domestic listed companies must gain shareholder approval prior to an issuance of securities in connection with certain events, such as the establishment or amendment of certain equity-based compensation plans and arrangements or an issuance that will result in a change of control of a company. Under Israeli law and general practice, however, the approval of the board of directors is sufficient for the establishment or amendment of equity-based compensation plans and arrangements, unless the arrangement is for the benefit of a director, or a controlling shareholder, in which case audit committee and shareholder approvals are also required. Similarly, the approval of the board of directors is generally sufficient for a private placement unless the private placement involves a director, a controlling shareholder or is deemed a “significant private placement” (as defined in “Item 6C. Board Practices—NASDAQ Listing Rules and Home Country Practices.”), in which case shareholder approval, and, in some cases, audit committee approval, would also be required. 12 Accordingly, our shareholders may not enjoy the same protection intended to be afforded by the NASDAQ Listing Rules. For further information, see “Item 6C. Board Practices—NASDAQ Listing Rules and Home Country Practices.” We can provide no assurance that we will be able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, in a timely manner or that we will not discover a material weakness with respect to our internal control over financial reporting under Israeli and U.S. laws. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, beginning with this annual report for the year ending December 31, 2011, our management is required to deliver a report that assesses the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and, provided we are an accelerated or larger accelerated filer, our auditors will be required to deliver an attestation report on management’s assessment of, and the operating effectiveness of, our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot be certain that all material weaknesses will be revealed and corrected, or that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future in connection with our compliance with these requirements. In addition, following the 2012 Reorganization, we dismissed most of our employees, including employees that were engaged, directly or indirectly, in the financial reporting process. The decrease in the number of persons engaged in the process of financial reporting, may increase the likelihood of future material weaknesses. The existence of one or more material weaknesses would preclude a conclusion by our management that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify and report a material weakness, it may affect the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to file less information with the SEC than a company incorporated in the United States. Accordingly, there may be less publicly available information concerning us than there is for companies incorporated in the United States. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from certain rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, which impose disclosure requirements, as well as procedural requirements, for proxy solicitations under Section 14 of the Exchange Act. In addition, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and ‘‘short-swing’’ profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act. Moreover, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act, nor are we generally required to comply with Regulation FD, which restricts the selective disclosure of material non-public information. Accordingly, there may be less information publicly available concerning us than there is for U.S. public companies. Adverse changes in general economic conditions in all major markets could harm us. We are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in general economic market conditions. The world economy remains extremely sluggish as it seeks to recover from a severe recession and unprecedented economic turmoil in recent years. This turmoil and the uncertainty about future economic conditions could materially adversely affect our current and prospective customers, the financial ability of health insurers to pay claims and our ability to finance our operations. This turmoil and the uncertainty about future economic conditions could also cause delays or other problems with key suppliers and increase the risk of counterparty failures. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of this severe global economic downturn or of any subsequent recovery. Healthcare spending in the United States and elsewhere has been, and is expected to continue to be, negatively affected by these recessionary trends. Since the sale of our products is generally dependent on the availability of third-party reimbursement and normally requires the patient to make a significant co-payment, the impact of the recession on our potential customers may reduce the desirability of our products. 13 In addition, the severe recession has impacted the financial stability of many private health insurers. As a result, it has been reported that some insurers are scrutinizing claims more rigorously and delaying or denying reimbursement for new products. Since we hope to obtain third-party reimbursement for our products, we may be harmed by these changes. For other factors that could adversely affect healthcare spending and the medical device industry, see “—Risks Related to Our Industry Regulation and Pricing—Healthcare reform legislation in the United States and elsewhere could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition.” We are dependent on certain key members of our senior management team and the loss of such personnel may have a material impact on our ability to achieve our current business objectives. Following the 2012 Reorganization, we dismissed most of our employees and retained our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer, our chief operating officer (collectively, the "Executives") and an additional employee for the purpose of providing support to our existing customer base. Each of the Executives possesses unique skills and knowledge, which relate to our business and/or our core technology. If one or more of the Executives leaves his position or is otherwise unable to perform his duties for an extended period of time, our business may be disrupted and we may not be able to achieve our current business objectives, including our plan to maximize and realize the value of our technology by licensing or selling such technology to third parties, or enter into an M&A transactions or by entering into OEM and high volume sales transactions. Risks Related to Our Industry Regulation and Pricing We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry and if we fail to comply with applicable laws and government regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. Furthermore, regulation affecting our operations may change. Our failure to conform to these evolving regulation and directives may negatively affect our business. The healthcare industry is subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to: • quality and safety of medical equipment and services; • billing for services; • financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources, such as diabetes educators; • inducements and courtesies being given to patients; • confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with medical records and individually identifiable health information; • false claims; • professional licensing; and • labeling and packaging of products and language and content of instructions for use. These laws and regulations are extremely complex, tend to vary by country, and, in some cases, are still evolving. In many countries, the healthcare industry does not have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. We believe that we currently are in compliance with all applicable healthcare industry regulations and laws of the countries in which we operate, but regulatory authorities that enforce the various statutes may determine that we are currently, or in the future may be, violating these laws and we may need to restructure some of our operations. In the European Economic Community, or the EEC, the advertising and promotion of our products is subject to EEC Member States laws implementing the Directive 93/42/EEC concerning Medical Devices, or the Medical Devices Directive, the Directive 2006/114/EC concerning misleading and comparative advertising, and Directive 2005/29/EC on unfair commercial practices, as well as other EEC Member State legislation governing the advertising and promotion of medical devices. These laws may restrict the advertising and promotion of our products to the general public and may also impose limitations on our promotional activities with healthcare professionals. 14 We have commenced commercial operations in the United States and we are subject to, among others, Medicare and Medicaid laws, the federal anti-kickback law, the Stark law, and similar state laws, which prohibit payments that are intended to induce physicians or other healthcare professionals either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of healthcare products or services. These laws could constrain our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of medical devices. Other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. Because we may provide some coding and billing information to purchasers of our products, and because we cannot be certain that the U.S. government will regard any billing errors that may be made as inadvertent, these laws are potentially applicable to us. In addition, these laws may apply to us because we intend to provide reimbursement to healthcare professionals for training patients on the use of our products. Anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance, which can be substantial. Even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity and/or be costly to respond to, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, healthcare laws and regulations may change significantly in the future. We try to monitor these developments through our distributors, who are contractually obligated to inform us of all relevant developments. Any new healthcare laws or regulations could restrict our operations or otherwise harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are found to have violated laws protecting the confidentiality of patient health information, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities and damage our reputation or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some countries in which we currently operate prescribe a number of laws protecting the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including patient records, and restricting the use and disclosure of that protected information. In the EEA, the use, handling, disclosure and processing of patient health-related personal data is strictly regulated by EEA Member State laws implementing Directive 95/46/EC on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, or the EU Data Protection Directive. In the United States, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services promulgated privacy and security rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (collectively, HIPAA). These privacy and security rules protect medical records and other personal health information by limiting their use and disclosure, giving individuals the right to access, amend and seek accounting of their own health information, limiting most uses and disclosures of health information to the minimum amount reasonably necessary to accomplish the intended purpose requiring appropriate physical, administrative and technical safeguards and requiring notification of security breaches. Moreover, we may be subject to similar privacy and security protection laws and regulations in various states in the United States. If we are found to be in violation of the privacy or security rules under the laws of any of these jurisdictions, we or our employees could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which would increase our liabilities and damage our reputation or otherwise harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to obtain and maintain necessary regulatory clearances for our products and indications in our target markets, if clearances for future products and indications are delayed or not issued, or if there are regulatory changes in our existing or future target markets, our commercial operations could be harmed. Our products are medical devices subject to extensive regulations which are meant to assure their safety, effectiveness and compliance with applicable consumer laws. If we fail to obtain and maintain these regulatory approvals or clearances, our ability to sell our products and generate revenues will be materially harmed. These laws and regulations relate to the design, development, testing, manufacturing, storage, labeling, packaging, content and language of the instructions for use of the device, sale, promotion, distribution, importing and exporting, shipping, post-sale surveillance and recall from our products’ markets, and all countries in which we intend to sell our products apply some form of regulations of this kind. Most notably, we must comply with the Medical Devices Directive and are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the FDA and other federal, state and local authorities. Devices that comply with the requirements of the Medical Devices Directive are entitled to bear the CE conformity mark, or the CE Mark, indicating that the device meets minimum standards of performance, safety and quality (i.e., the essential requirements) and, accordingly, can be commercially distributed throughout the EEA and Turkey and other countries outside Europe that have accepted the CE marking as a certification of efficiency and safety of medical devices. To obtain a CE Mark for the types of medical devices that we manufacture we must implement a quality management system, or QMS, and create a Technical File demonstrating compliance with the requirements of the Medical Devices Directive. The QMS and Technical File must be audited by a third-party assessing body, or a notified body, who, if the audit is successful, will issue an EC Certificate. We must then draw up a Declaration of Conformity stating that our products conform to the type described in the EC Certificate and with the provisions of the Medical Devices Directive, and must affix the CE Mark to all of our products marketed in the EEA. 15 The Medical Devices Directive has been recently amended by Directive 2007/47/EC whose provisions had to be adopted by the EU Member States by March 21, 2010. Directive 2007/47/EC has strengthened the EEA’s conformity assessment and post-marketing surveillance procedures. The European Commission is also currently reviewing the medical devices legislative framework with the aim of simplifying it and ensuring a more uniform application of the provisions contained in the Directives across the EEA. Our first generation Spring Adi Pump received FDA 510(k) clearance on June 8, 2008, CE Mark certification on November 21, 2007 and an Amar Approval on November 11, 2008. Our Spring Universal Infusion Sets and the first version of the Spring Hybrid Patch Pump received CE Mark certification on March 20, 2009 and September 1, 2009, respectively. On April 28, 2011, we received a 510(k) clearance for our Spring Universal Infusion Sets. We also received a limited Amar approval, for the use in three medical centers in Israel, and a certificate of free sale in Israel for the Spring Universal Infusion Sets on November 4, 2009. On January 11, 2012, Spring Health Solution has received a CE Mark approval of its Spring Zone Insulin Delivery System. We are currently in the process of obtaining an Amar approval for the sale and distribution of the Spring Universal Infusion Sets in Israel. We are also currently in the process of applying for regulatory approvals in Mexico and China with respect to our Spring Zone Pump and Spring Universal Infusion Sets. Compliance with the requirements of the European Union or approval or clearance by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. If we fail to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals or clearances in countries where we intend to distribute our products, our commercial operations could be harmed. For additional information regarding the regulatory requirements applicable to us, see “Item 4B. Business Overview—Health, Regulatory, Environment and Pricing.” We generate a portion of our revenues from sales of our products in the United States. Before a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, an existing product can be introduced into commercial distribution in the United States, it must first receive either 510(k) clearance or premarket approval, or PMA, from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. In the 510(k) clearance process, the FDA must only demonstrate that the proposed device is “substantially equivalent” to a device legally on the market, known as a “predicate” device, with respect to intended use, technology and safety and effectiveness. Clinical data is sometimes required to support substantial equivalence. The PMA pathway requires an applicant to provide scientific evidence that the product is safe and effective for its intended use. The PMA application is based, primarily on the data obtained in clinical trials. Both of these processes can be expensive and lengthy. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to 12 months, but it can last longer. The PMA pathway is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process and it generally takes from one to three years, or even longer, from the time the application is filed with the FDA. Since no precedent for FDA approval of a continuous glucose monitoring system as a replacement for single-point finger stick devices has been established, we may be required to obtain premarket approval for our continuous glucose monitoring and insulin pump device. We cannot assure you that the FDA will not demand that we obtain a PMA for our continuous glucose monitoring system or some of our other future products or that we will be able to obtain the 510(k) clearance for our Spring Hybrid Patch Pump. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of an application for many reasons, including, among others: • we may not be able to demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction that our products are safe for their intended users; • the data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may be insufficient to support approval; • the manufacturing process or facilities we use may not meet applicable requirements; and • changes in FDA approval policies or the adoption of new regulations may require additional data. 16 We may not obtain the necessary regulatory approvals to market our combined continuous glucose monitoring system and insulin pump device in the United States or elsewhere. Even if approved, our combined device may not be approved for the indications that are necessary or desirable for successful commercialization. Any delay in, or failure to receive or maintain, approval for our products under development could prevent us from generating revenue from these products or achieving profitability. Following the 2012 Reorganization, our R&D, regulatory and some of our commercialization efforts are currently on hold. See "— If we are not able to realize the value of our technology and intellectual property by licensing/selling such technology, or by pursuing OEM and high volume sales opportunities, and, in addition, if we are unable to obtain additional financing while seeking such business opportunities, we may have to cease our operations". Even after we receive regulatory clearances, regulators can potentially revoke such clearances. Even after we receive required clearances or approvals, our clearances can be revoked if safety or effectiveness problems develop or if we modify any of our products in a manner that would significantly affect their safety or effectiveness or that would constitute a major change in their intended use. We may not be able to obtain additional regulatory clearances for new products or for modifications to, or additional indications for, our existing products in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining future regulatory clearances or approvals may result in recalls of the modified products, may require us to stop marketing the modified products, and could adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn could harm our revenue and future profitability. If the relevant regulatory agency disagrees with our assessments and requires new regulatory clearances or approvals for modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing the modified devices. Although we have complied with the requirements of the Medical Devices Directive and our products being commercialized are CE marked, the regulations implementing and enforcing the Medical Devices Directive are drafted individually in each Member State of the EEA, which sometimes interprets the provisions of the Medical Devices Directive differently. This can mean that complying with the regulations of one Member State does not automatically guarantee compliance in others, and it does not ensure against interference from other competent authorities. We are subject to annual audits by a notified body under the Medical Devices Directive. During this audit, the notified body examines the maintenance and implementation of our quality control system, device post marketing feedback and any changes or modifications made to the products. In addition, we must also comply with the Medical Device Vigilance System, which is intended to improve the protection of health and safety of patients, users and others by reducing the likelihood of reoccurrence of incidents related to the use of a medical device. Under this system, incidents (which are defined as any malfunction or deterioration in the characteristics and/or performance of a device, as well as any inadequacy in the labeling or the instructions for use which, directly or indirectly, might lead to or might have led to the death of a patient, or user or of other persons or to a serious deterioration in their state of health) are evaluated and, where appropriate, information is disseminated between the national health authorities of the EEA in the form of a National Competent Authority Report, or NCAR. The Medical Device Vigilance System is also intended to facilitate a direct early and harmonized implementation of Field Safety Corrective Actions, or FSCAs, across the Member States where the device is in use. An FSCA is an action taken by a manufacturer to reduce a risk of death or serious deterioration in the state of health associated with the use of a medical device that is already placed on the market. An FSCA may include device recall, modification, exchange, or destruction. FSCAs must be notified by the manufacturer as its legal representative to its customers and/or the end users of the device. In the United States, we will also be subject to numerous post-marketing regulatory requirements, which include quality system regulations related to the manufacturing of our devices, labeling regulations and medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to the FDA if our devices cause or contribute to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Our products and/or their use will also be subject to state regulations, which are, in many instances, in flux. Changes in state regulations may impede sales. We cannot predict the impact or effect of future legislation or regulations at the federal or state levels. 17 In the United States, the FDA and state authorities have broad enforcement powers. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements or to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse inspection by the FDA could result in enforcement action by the FDA or state agencies, which may include any of the following sanctions: • warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; • repair, replacement, refund, recall or seizure of our products; • issuing an import alert to block entry of products the FDA has reason to believe violate applicable regulatory requirements; • operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products, new intended uses, or modifications to existing products; • withdrawing 510(k) clearance or premarket approvals that have already been granted; and • criminal prosecution. We believe that most of the countries where we intend to distribute our products apply some form of regulations and enforcement measures of this kind. For example, in Brazil we are required to implement a Quality Management System in compliance with Brazil’s Good Manufacturing Practices, or B-GMPs, and beginning in May 2010, the Brazilian regulatory authority, Agência Nacional De Vigilância Sanitária, or ANVISA, will perform worldwide, on-site inspections at the manufacturer’s facilities for manufacturers of Class III and IV devices and issue GMP compliance certificates. These GMP compliance certificates must be renewed every two years although companies may complete a “self-inspection” process provided that no non-conformities have been found and no incidents have been reported during intermediate years between inspections which are anticipated to occur every four years. In Mexico, our devices will also be required to comply with mandatory labeling standards, as well as the requirements of the Mexican technovigilance system, including adverse event reporting. Failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements in any country in which we intend to market our product could result in enforcement measures, including the rescission or withdrawal of our approvals, registrations or clearances. If any one of these events were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, the manufacturing of our products must occur in a highly controlled and clean environment to minimize particles and other yield- and quality-limiting contaminants from contaminating our products. Weaknesses in process control or minute impurities in materials may cause a substantial percentage of defective products in a lot. If we are unable to maintain stringent quality controls, or if contamination problems arise, our commercialization efforts could be delayed and our ability to meet market demand could be seriously hindered, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain our ISO 13485 certification or comply with quality assurance standards We operate pursuant to a quality assurance system that meets the requirements of ISO 13485, which is an internationally recognized quality standard designed to ensure that medical device manufacturers have the necessary comprehensive management systems in place to safely design, develop, manufacture and distribute medical devices in the European Union. It is a regulatory requirement of the European Union’s Medical Device Directive and an important step toward attaining European CE Mark approval. We may fail to maintain our ISO 13485 certification in the future due to changes in the standard. We may also not be able to comply with quality assurance standards in other countries in which we operate. If we are unable to maintain and comply with quality assurance standard requirements, our commercialization efforts could be delayed and that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Our current or future products are subject to recalls even after receiving regulatory clearances, which could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The FDA and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our current or future products if we, our component suppliers, or, in the future, our contract manufacturers, fail to comply with relevant regulations pertaining to the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our products, or if new information is obtained concerning the safety or efficacy of these products. Any recall of our products could materially disrupt our operations and materially adversely affect our results of operations. A government-mandated recall could occur, for example, if a regulatory body finds that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious, adverse health consequences or death. In the EEA, Member State authorities can take interim measures ordering the withdrawal of devices from the market or prohibiting or restricting their introduction to the market if they consider that when correctly installed, maintained and used for their intended purpose, the devices may compromise the health and/or safety of patients, users or other persons. A voluntary recall of any of our products by us could occur as a result of manufacturing defects, labeling deficiencies, packaging defects or other failures to comply with applicable regulations. Any recall of our products would divert our management’s attention and financial resources and damage our reputation with customers. A recall involving our Spring Zone Pump or our Spring Universal Infusion Sets would be particularly harmful to our business, financial condition and results of operations because we currently rely on them as our only source of revenue from operations. 18 If we are unable to successfully complete pre-clinical studies or clinical trials with respect to our products in development, we may be unable to receive regulatory approvals or clearances for these products and/or our ability to achieve market acceptance of our products will be harmed. Development of medical devices includes pre-clinical studies and, to the extent required by regulatory authorities, clinical trials, which can be long, expensive and uncertain processes, subject to delays and failure at any stage. In addition, the data obtained from the studies and trials may be inadequate to support regulatory clearances or approvals or to allow market acceptance of the products being studied. Our combined continuous glucose monitoring and insulin pump is currently undergoing pre-clinical studies and we expect that it will have to undergo a clinical trial. The commencement or completion of any of our pre-clinical studies or trials may be delayed or halted, or be inadequate to support regulatory clearance or product acceptance, for numerous reasons, including, among others: • patients do not enroll in the clinical trial at the rate we expect; • patients do not comply with trial protocols; • patient follow-up is not at the rate we expect; • patients experience adverse side effects; • patients die during a clinical trial, even though their death may not be related to our products; • the FDA or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical trial protocol or a clinical trial, or place a clinical trial on hold; • institutional review boards, or IRBs, ethics committees and third-party clinical investigators may delay or reject our trial protocol; • third-party clinical investigators decline to participate in a study or trial or do not perform a study or trial on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the investigator agreements, study or trial protocol, good clinical practices or other FDA or IRBs, ethics committees, or any other applicable requirements; • third-party organizations do not perform data collection, monitoring and analysis in a timely or accurate manner or consistent with the study or trial protocol or investigational or statistical plans; • regulatory inspections of our studies, trials or manufacturing facilities may, among others, require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our studies or clinical trials; • changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions; • the interim or final results of the study or clinical trial are inconclusive or unfavorable as to safety or efficacy; and • a regulatory agency concludes that our trial design is inadequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. The results of pre-clinical studies do not necessarily predict future clinical trial results, and predecessor clinical trial results may not be repeated in subsequent clinical trials. Additionally, the FDA, EEA, or other regulatory entities may disagree with our interpretation of the data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, or may find the clinical trial design, conduct or results inadequate to demonstrate safety or efficacy, and may require us to pursue additional pre-clinical studies or clinical trials, which could further delay the clearance or approval of our products. The data we collect from our current clinical trials, our pre-clinical studies and other clinical trials may not be sufficient to support regulatory clearance or approval. Following the 2012 Reorganization, our R&D and regulatory efforts are currently on hold. See "— If we are not able to realize the value of our technology and intellectual property by licensing/selling such technology, or by pursuing OEM and high volume sales opportunities, and, in addition, if we are unable to obtain additional financing while seeking such business opportunities, we may have to cease our operations". 19 Failure to secure or retain adequate coverage or reimbursement for our products by third-party payors could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect that sales of our products will be limited unless a substantial portion of the sales price of the products is paid for by third-party payors, including governmental agencies, private insurance companies, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations and other managed care providers. Although the costs of insulin pump therapy and supplies are generally reimbursable in high-income countries, we may need to meet certain requirements to have our products covered and/or may have to agree to a net sales price lower than the net sales price we might otherwise charge. Our initial dependence on the commercial success of our insulin pumps makes us particularly susceptible to any cost containment or price reduction efforts. In addition, in some foreign markets, pricing and profitability of medical devices are subject to government control. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that third-party reimbursement and coverage will be available or adequate in either Europe, the BRIC countries, Mexico, Israel, the United States or any other international market, or that future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payors will not otherwise negatively affect the demand for our existing products or products under development. We believe that in the future reimbursement will be subject to increased restrictions in the United States and in other international markets. Healthcare market initiatives may lead third-party payors to decline or reduce reimbursement for the products. We further believe that the overall escalating cost of medical products and services will continue to lead to increased pressures on the healthcare industry, both domestically and internationally, to reduce the cost of products and services, including our current products and products under development. Moreover, compliance with administrative procedures or requirements of third-party payors may result in delays in processing approvals by those payors for patients to obtain coverage for the use of our products. Healthcare reform legislation in the United States and elsewhere could harm our revenues and financial condition. From time to time, the U.S. Congress and other foreign legislative bodies consider legislation that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the regulatory clearance or approval, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. In addition, regulations and regulatory guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the FDA in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or if regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. In recent years, there have been numerous initiatives on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for, the availability of, and reimbursement for, healthcare services in the United States (including the recent Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act). These initiatives have ranged from proposals to fundamentally change federal and state healthcare reimbursement programs, including providing comprehensive healthcare coverage to the public under governmental funded programs, to minor modifications to existing programs. Such initiatives may impact existing government healthcare programs and change the statutory provisions governing the regulatory clearance or approval, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. Therefore, such initiatives (if and to the extent they become effective) may significantly affect the healthcare industry, and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed and we may not be able to meet our current business objectives. Our success and ability to compete depends in large part upon our ability to protect our intellectual property. We have submitted several patent applications in various countries, usually including the United States, the European Community, Israel and Canada, with respect to the features and processes on which the novelty of our products depends. We face several risks and uncertainties in connection with our intellectual property rights, including, among others: • pending and future patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will be advantageous to us; • any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or legally circumvented by third parties; • our patents may not be upheld as valid and enforceable or prevent the development of competitive products; • for a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent protection; and • the laws of certain countries in which we intend to sell our products, including China, may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, Europe or Israel. 20 Consequently, our competitors could develop, manufacture and sell products that directly compete with our products, which could decrease our sales and diminish our ability to compete effectively. In addition, competitors could attempt to develop their own competitive technologies that fall outside of our intellectual property rights. If our intellectual property does not adequately protect us from our competitors’ products and methods, our competitive position could be materially adversely affected. Moreover, if we fail to protect our intellectual property and maintain its value, it might harm our efforts to sell or license our technology to third parties, and to seek OEM and high volume sales opportunities (in accordance with our current business strategy following the 2012 Reorganization). In such case, we may be in a position where we have to cease our operations. See "— If we are not able to realize the value of our technology and intellectual property by licensing/selling such technology, or by pursuing OEM and high volume sales opportunities, and, in addition, if we are unable to obtain additional financing while seeking such business opportunities, we may have to cease our operations". Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may be less effective in some countries where intellectual property rights are not as well protected as in the United States. The laws of some countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same degree as the laws of the United States and there is a risk that our ability to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate in these countries. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting their proprietary rights against copying or infringement in such countries, some of which are countries in which we intend to sell our products. In particular, the application of laws governing intellectual property rights in China is uncertain and evolving and could involve substantial risks to us. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights in China, our future attempts (if any) to penetrate the Chinese market may be harmed. In addition, our competitors in China and these other countries may independently develop similar technology or duplicate our products, even if unauthorized, which could potentially reduce our sales in these countries and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the market and meet our current strategic goals. In addition to patents, we rely on confidentiality, non-compete, non-disclosure and assignment of inventions provisions, as appropriate, with our employees, consultants and, to some extent, our distributors, to protect and otherwise seek to control access to, and distribution of, our proprietary information. These measures may not be adequate to protect our intellectual property from unauthorized disclosure, third-party infringement or misappropriation, for the following reasons: • the agreements may be breached, may not provide the scope of protection we believe they provide or may be determined to be unenforceable; • we may have inadequate remedies for any breach; • trade secrets and other proprietary information could be disclosed to our competitors; or • others may independently develop substantially equivalent or superior proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technologies. Specifically with respect to non-compete agreements, under current U.S. and Israeli law, we may be unable to enforce these agreements, in whole or in part, and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from gaining the expertise that our former employees gained while working for us. If, for any of the above reasons, our intellectual property is disclosed or misappropriated, it could harm our ability to protect our rights and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, if we fail to protect our intellectual property and maintain its value, it might harm our efforts to sell or license our technology to third parties, and to seek OEM and high volume sales opportunities. In such case, we may be in a position where we may have to cease our operations. See "— If we are not able to realize the value of our technology and intellectual property by licensing/selling such technology, or by pursuing OEM and high volume sales opportunities, and, in addition, if we are unable to obtain additional financing while seeking such business opportunities, we may have to cease our operations" 21 Third-party claims of infringement or other claims against us could require us to redesign our products, seek licenses, or engage in future costly intellectual property litigation, which could negatively affect our future business and financial performance. Substantial litigation over intellectual property rights exists in the medical device industry. We expect that we may be subject to third-party infringement claims as our revenues increase, the number of competitors grows and the functionality of products and technology in different industry segments converges. Third parties may currently have, or may eventually be issued, patents on which our current or future products or technologies may infringe. We are aware of certain patents and patent applications owned by our competitors that cover different aspects of insulin infusion and the related devices. Any of these third parties might make a claim of infringement against us. Any resulting litigation regardless of its outcome, would likely result in the expenditure of significant financial resources and the diversion of management’s time and resources. In addition, litigation in which we are accused of infringement may cause negative publicity, adversely impact prospective customers, cause product shipment delays, prohibit us from manufacturing, marketing or selling our current or future products, require us to develop non-infringing technology, make substantial payments to third parties or enter into royalty or license agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If a successful claim of infringement were made against us and we could not develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology in a timely and cost-effective manner, our ability to generate significant revenues may be substantially harmed and we could be exposed to significant liability. A court could enter orders that temporarily, preliminarily or permanently enjoin us or our customers from making, using, selling, offering to sell or importing our current or future products, or could enter an order mandating that we undertake certain remedial activities. Claims that we have misappropriated the confidential information or trade secrets of third parties can similarly harm our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. We may also become involved in litigation in connection with our brand name rights. We do not know whether others will assert that our brand name infringes their trademark rights. In addition, names we choose for our products may be claimed to infringe names held by others. If we have to change the names we use, we may experience a loss in goodwill associated with our brand name, customer confusion and a loss of sales. We may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, which could be expensive and, if we lose, could cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights, which would harm our ability to compete in the market. We rely on patents to protect a portion of our intellectual property and our competitive position. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving and, consequently, patent positions in the medical device industry are generally uncertain. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings. Any lawsuits that we initiate could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns, and the outcome of litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights in patents, copyrights, trade secrets or trademarks is highly unpredictable. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. In addition, we may provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, including attorney fees, if any, may not be commercially valuable. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel Conditions in Israel could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are incorporated under Israeli law and our principal offices, research and development facilities and some of our suppliers are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our business. Since the State of Israel was established in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, there has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity, which began in September 2000 and has continued with varying levels of severity. In mid-2006, a war took place between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon, resulting in thousands of rockets being fired from Lebanon up to approximately 50 miles into Israel, including into Haifa where our facility is located. In addition, the establishment in 2006 of a government in the Palestinian Authority by representatives of the Hamas militant group has created additional unrest and uncertainty in the region, escalating to a wide scale attack by Israel in December 2008, in retaliation to rocket attacks into southern Israel. Furthermore, several countries, principally in the Middle East, still restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional countries may impose restrictions on doing business with Israel and Israeli companies if hostilities in Israel continue or increase. These restrictions may materially limit our ability to sell our products to companies in these countries. Moreover, since December 2010, there has been a wave of protests and civil resistance demonstrations in several countries in the Middle East and North Africa, including Egypt and Syria, which share a border with Israel. The demonstrations and acts of civil resistance in Egypt led to the resignation of the former Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak and to extensive revisions in the Egyptian governmental structure. It is not clear how this revolutionary wave, also known as the Arab Spring, will develop and how it will affect the political and security situation in the Middle East. It is also not clear how it will affect Israel and its relationship with its Arab neighbors. It is also widely believed that Iran, which has previously threatened to attack Israel, has been stepping up its efforts to achieve nuclear capability. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in the region, such as Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon. The tension between Israel and Iran may escalate in the future and turn violent, which could affect the Israeli economy generally and us in particular. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, could adversely affect our operations and product development, cause our revenues to decrease and adversely affect the share price of publicly traded companies having operations in Israel, such as us, or otherwise adversely affect business conditions and our operations. Moreover, parties with whom we do business may decline to travel to Israel during periods of heightened unrest or tension, forcing us to make alternative arrangements when necessary. The political and security situation in Israel may also result in parties with whom we have agreements involving performance in Israel claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those agreements pursuant to force majeure provisions in the agreements. Finally, any hostilities involving Israel could have a material adverse effect on our facilities or on the facilities of our local suppliers in which event, all or a portion of our inventory may be damaged, and our ability to deliver products to customers could be materially adversely affected. Our commercial insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of events associated with the security situation in the Middle East. Although the Israeli government currently covers the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot assure you that this government coverage will be maintained or, if maintained, will be sufficient. Any losses or damages incurred by us could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. According to the Israeli law citizens are obligated to serve in military reserve and perform their annual military duties. According to the Israeli law citizens are obligated to serve in military reserve and perform their annual military duties. Military reserve duties of key personal may affect our business Pursuant to the terms of the government grants we have received for research and development expenditures through the Office of the Chief Scientist, we are obligated to pay certain royalties to the Israeli government from sales of our products, which affects our results of operations. Such conditions may also limit our ability to transfer and license our know-how and technology outside of Israel, or manufacture our products outside of Israel. In addition, the amount of royalties will increase if we decide to manufacture our products abroad or transfer technologies outside of Israel, which could negatively affect our cost of production or future transactions with respect to our products. If we fail to comply with the conditions of the grants, we may be required to refund grants previously received together with interest and penalties, and may be subject to criminal charges. We have received grants from the government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, or the Office of the Chief Scientist, for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel pursuant to the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development Law 5744-1984, or the Research and Development Law. Under the Research and Development Law, royalties on the revenues derived from sales of products (and related services) developed (in all or in part) according to, or as a result of, the Office of the Chief Scientist funded plans are payable to the Israeli government, at annual rates which are determined under the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development Regulations (Rate of Royalties and Rules for the Payment thereof), 1996, or the R&D Regulations, up to 300% of the aggregate amount of the grants received by the Office of the Chief Scientist, plus annual interest (as defined in the R&D Regulations). As of December 31, 2011, provision for royalties to the Office of the Chief Scientist was NIS 6,795 thousand (approximately US$1,778 thousand) including accrued interest. Payment of royalties will affect our results of operations. 23 Any intellectual property developed using the Office of the Chief Scientist funds must be fully and originally owned by the Israeli company which received such funds. The Research and Development Law restricts the ability to transfer abroad know-how funded by the Office of the Chief Scientist. Transfer of such know-how to a foreign entity requires prior Office of the Chief Scientist approval and is subject to payment of a redemption fee to the Office of the Chief Scientist calculated according to formulas provided under the Research and Development Law. The Research and Development Law discusses two know how transfers scenarios, namely (i) the sale of the know-how as part of an asset sale whereby the company's activity remains in Israel and (ii) the sale of the know-how within the scope of a sale of the company that as a result of which, the company ceases to be a corporation incorporated in Israel. The formula for calculating the redemption fee in the event of sale of the company whereby the company ceases to exist as an Israeli entity is based on the ratio between the aggregate amounts of the Office of the Chief Scientist grants to total amount of investment in the company less the financial assets multiplied by the sale price of the company. According to a recent Amendment to the Research and Development Law dated January 6, 2011, a new formula for calculating the redemption fee in the event of sale of the company will enter into force subject to promulgation of certain regulations that shall set the maximum amounts for the increased Office of the Chief Scientist redemption fees. The new formula will be based, in general, on the ratio between the aggregate Office of the Chief Scientist grants received by the company, to the company's aggregate R&D expenses less the financial assets, multiplied by the sale price of the company. In addition, under the Research and Development Law, products developed as a result of research and development activities funded by the Office of Chief Scientist, must, as a general matter, be manufactured in Israel. Manufacturing of products abroad, as well as the transfer of technologies outside of Israel, require the prior approval of the Office of the Chief Scientist and will result in an increase of the amount owed to the Israeli government by the recipient of the grants and the rate of royalty repayment. The transfer of no more than 10% of the manufacturing capacity in the aggregate is exempt under the Research and Development Law from obtaining the prior approval of the Office of the Chief Scientist. A company requesting funds from the Office of the Chief Scientist, also has the option of declaring in its grant application an intention to exercise a portion of the manufacturing capacity abroad, thus avoiding the need to obtain additional approval. In the event that manufacturing is transferred to a third party abroad, the increase in the amount owed to the Israeli government depends on the volume of manufacturing expected to be performed outside of Israel. If less than 50% of the manufacturing activity is performed outside of Israel, the amount owed will increase to 120% of the grant received; if more than 50% but less than 90% of the manufacturing activity is performed outside of Israel, the amount owed will increase to 150% of the grant received; and if more than 90% of the manufacturing activity is performed outside of Israel, the amount owed will increase to 300% of the grant received (all linked to the U.S. dollar plus annual interest, as defined in the R&D Regulations). We obtained an approval from the Office of Chief Scientist for the manufacturing of the consumable components of the Spring Zone Pump and the Spring Universal Infusion Sets by UPG in China (pursuant to our Master Manufacturing Agreement with UPG. See "Item 10C. Material Agreements – Master Manufacturing Agreement with UPG"). Under the Research and Development Law, we may be required to pay royalties in excess of the grants provided to us, the amount of which depends on the manufacturing volume that is performed outside of Israel. Royalties owed after manufacturing is transferred to a third party abroad are payable out of sales of the products for which the applicable grants were received at a rate equal to the ratio between the amounts of the grants received by Spring Health Solutions and the total amount of grants received plus our investment in the approved plans of Spring Health Solutions, as determined by an accountant of the Industrial Research and Development Administration (the body administering the Research and Development Law). Since the rate of royalty payment is dependent upon the volume of sales of the products for which the applicable grants were received, the timeframe for royalty payments is not set. However, as required under the Research and Development Law, we are required to analyze and file a report with the Office of the Chief Scientist regarding the volume of sales every six months until full payment of royalties owed. Royalties from sales reported on such semi-annual reports are required to be paid to the Israeli government on the date we submit the reports. Such liability, as well as the liability resulting from the limitations on the transfer of technology outside of Israel, could negatively affect our cost of production, our ability to outsource or transfer development or manufacturing activities, or any sale or ability to sell or engage in other possible transactions that we may want to consummate with respect to our technology. Furthermore, if we fail to comply with any of the conditions and restrictions imposed by the Research and Development Law or by the specific terms under which we received the grants, we may be required to refund any grants previously received together with interest and penalties. If we transfer know how and technology outside of Israel without obtaining the approval of the Office of Chief Scientist, we may also be subject to criminal charges. In recent years, the government of Israel has accelerated the rate of repayment of the Office of Chief Scientist grants and may further accelerate them in the future. These restrictions on transferring technologies and/or manufacturing outside of Israel continue to apply even after we have repaid any grants, in whole or in part. 24 Exchange rate fluctuations may decrease our earnings if we are not able to hedge our currency exchange risks successfully. We expect that a majority of our revenues will be denominated in currencies other than the NIS. However, a significant portion of our costs, including personnel and some marketing and facilities expenses, are incurred in NIS. If the other currencies affecting our operations decline in value in relation to the NIS, it will become more expensive for us to fund our operations in Israel. Historically, we have not engaged in hedging transactions since we only recently commenced sales of our products in currencies other than the NIS. In the future, if we do not successfully engage in hedging transactions, our results of operations may be subject to losses from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from those under Delaware law. Since we are an Israeli company, the rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by our amended and restated articles of association and our amended and restated memorandum of association, or, collectively, our amended and restated articles of association, and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in a Delaware corporation. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith towards the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his, her or its power in the company, including, among others, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters, such as amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholders’ vote or to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness towards the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revisions in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. These provisions may be interpreted to impose additional obligations and liabilities on holders of our ordinary shares that are not typically imposed on shareholders of U.S. corporations. You may have difficulties enforcing a U.S. judgment against us, our executive officers and or asserting U.S. securities laws claims in Israel. A significant portion of our assets and the assets of our directors and executive officers are located outside the United States. We do not have significant tangible assets in the United States. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us or any of these persons in the United States, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. It also may be difficult for you to assert violations of the U.S. securities laws in original actions instituted in Israel. Provisions of our amended and restated articles of association and Israeli law may delay, prevent or hinder an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and, therefore, depress the price of our ordinary shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and other matters that may be applicable to change of control transactions. For example, a merger may not be consummated unless at least 50 days have passed from the date that a merger proposal was filed by each merging company with the Israel Registrar of Companies and at least 30 days from the date that the shareholders of both merging companies approved the merger. In addition, a majority of each class of securities of the target company must approve a merger. In addition, a full tender offer can only be completed if either (i) the shareholders who do not accept the offer hold less than 5% of the issued and outstanding share capital of the company or of the applicable class, and more than half of the shareholders who do not have a personal interest in the offer accept the offer, or (ii) the shareholder who do not accept the offer hold less than 2% of the issued and outstanding share capital of the company or of the applicable class. The shareholders, including those who indicated their acceptance of the tender offer, may, at any time within six months following the completion of the tender offer, petition the court to alter the consideration for the acquisition. Furthermore, our amended and restated articles of association provide for a staggered board, which could deter a potential purchaser from acquiring control of our company. For additional information on these matters, see “Item 10B. Memorandum and Articles of Association.” 25 Israeli tax considerations may also make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. For example, Israeli tax law does not recognize tax-free share exchanges to the same extent as U.S. tax law. With respect to mergers, Israeli tax law allows for tax deferral in certain circumstances but makes the deferral contingent on the fulfillment of numerous conditions, including a holding period of two years from the date of the transaction during which sales and dispositions of shares of the participating companies are restricted. Moreover, with respect to certain share swap transactions, the tax deferral is limited in time, and when the time expires, tax then becomes payable even if no actual disposition of the shares has occurred. These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our ordinary shares. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our ordinary shares may become ineligible for listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market, which could have a material adverse affect on the liquidity and price of our ordinary shares. On March 12, 2012, we received a letter from The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC, indicating that based on our closing bid price for the preceding thirty consecutive business days, the Company was not in compliance with the US$1.00 minimum bid price requirement as set forth in Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). Pursuant to Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we have a period of one hundred and eighty calendar days from such letter, or until September 10, 2012, to regain compliance. Compliance can be achieved by meeting the standard of a minimum bid price of US$1 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive business days at any time during the one hundred and eighty day period. If we do not comply with regain compliance by such date, we may be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market. There is no assurance that we will be able to regain compliance with the applicable Nasdaq Listing Rules. If our ordinary shares become ineligible for listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, and is thereafter traded only on the over-the-counter market, our shareholders' ability to purchase and sell our ordinary shares could be less orderly and efficient and more costly. Furthermore, a delisting of our ordinary shares could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, by causing a loss of confidence by investors and suppliers and by impairing our ability to obtain additional funding in the capital markets. As a result of the negative impact on the liquidity of our equity securities and on our business, a delisting would also likely decrease the market price of our equity securities and increase the volatility of our share price. Our shares are listed for trade on more than one stock exchange, and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are listed for trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market and on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, or TASE. This may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are traded on these markets in different currencies, U.S. dollars on The NASDAQ Capital Market and New Israeli Shekels on the TASE. These markets have different opening times and close on different days. Different trading times and differences in exchange rates, among other factors, may result in our shares being traded at a price differential on these two markets. In addition, market influences in one market may influence the price at which our shares are traded on the other. The market price of our ordinary shares may be affected by a limited trading volume and may fluctuate significantly. In August 2010, we registered our ordinary shares on The NASDAQ Capital Market, and there has been a limited public market for our ordinary shares since. There can be no assurance that an active trading market for our ordinary shares will develop. The NASDAQ Capital Market provides limited liquidity as compared to The NASDAQ Global Market or other national exchanges. An absence of an active trading market could adversely affect our shareholders’ ability to sell our ordinary shares in short time periods. Our ordinary shares have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares without regard to our operating performance. The lack of an active trading market in the United States may also result in the loss of research coverage by any securities analysts that may cover our company in the future. Moreover, we cannot assure you that any securities analysts will initiate or maintain research coverage of our company and our ordinary shares in the United States. 26 We are controlled by a small number of existing shareholders, who may make decisions with which you may disagree. Three of our shareholders are parties to a voting agreement pursuant to which they vote together on matters brought before meetings of our shareholders. Consequently, these shareholders’ holdings are aggregated and they are deemed beneficial holders of approximately 12.32% of our outstanding ordinary shares as of December 31, 2011. These shareholders, who also serve as directors of the Company, may exercise significant influence over our operations and business strategy and will have sufficient voting power to influence all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the ability to elect or remove directors, approve or reject mergers or other business combination transactions, raise future capital and amend our amended and restated articles of association. The interests of these shareholders may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. In addition, subject to a tag-along right among themselves, these shareholders are not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in us to a third party. Furthermore, this concentration of ownership may delay, prevent or deter a change in control, or deprive you of a possible premium for your ordinary shares as part of a sale of our company. For a more detailed description of the voting agreement, see “Item 7B. Related Party Transactions” in this annual report on Form 20-F. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they change their recommendations regarding our ordinary shares or their outlook on our industry as a whole adversely, our ordinary share price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our ordinary shares is influenced by research reports and opinions that securities or industry analysts publish about our business and our industry as a whole. We are not currently covered by Israeli or U.S. analysts. Investors have numerous investment opportunities and may limit their investments to publicly traded companies that receive thorough research coverage. If no analysts commence coverage of us or if one or more analysts covering us cease to cover us or fail to publish reports in a regular manner, we could have limited visibility in the U.S. financial markets, which could cause a significant and prolonged decline in the price of our ordinary shares due to lack of investor awareness. In the event that we do not obtain analyst coverage, or if in the future one or more analysts downgrade our ordinary shares or comment negatively about our prospects, the prospects of other companies operating in our industry or the overall outlook of our industry as a whole, the price of our ordinary shares could decline significantly. Additional financing may result in dilution to our shareholders. On September 12, 2011, we filed a shelf prospectus, or the Shelf Prospectus, in Israel. The Shelf Prospectus is valid for a period of two years and may be used by the Company to raise capital or debt through the issuance of shares, bonds, convertible bonds and/or warrants to purchase shares or bonds, at the discretion of the Company, subject to a supplemental shelf offering reports in which the Company would describe the specific terms of the offering, including the terms of the securities offered. Since the publication of the Shelf Prospectus, the Company has made three offerings of ordinary shares (including, in one offering, warrants to purchase our ordinary shares) pursuant to supplemental shelf offering reports published in Israel. In connection with these three offerings, a total of 2,917,652 ordinary shares and 1,150,000 warrants to purchase ordinary shares were issued, diluting the interest of existing shareholders. All ordinary shares and warrants offered pursuant to the Shelf Prospectus were offered under Regulation S of the Securities Act (category 1). On September 2, 2011, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form F-3, or the Shelf Registration Statement. The Shelf Registration Statement was declared effective by the SEC on November 18, 2011. Under the Shelf Registration Statement, we may offer and sell, from time to time, in one or more public offerings, up to $25 million of ordinary shares, debt securities, warrants, subscription rights or units, or any combination thereof. The specifics of any such offering, along with the prices, terms, and the use of proceeds of any such securities offered by the Company, will be determined at the time of any such offering and will be described in detail in a prospectus supplement filed at the time of any such offering. As of the date of this annual report on Form 20-F, we have not yet made any offering pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement. We will need to raise additional funds in the near future in order to meet our current business objectives. See "— If we are not able to realize the value of our technology and intellectual property by licensing/selling such technology, or by pursuing OEM and high volume sales opportunities, and, in addition, if we are unable to obtain additional financing while seeking such business opportunities, we may have to cease our operations". Additional financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, you may experience significant dilution of your ownership interest and the newly issued securities may have rights senior to those of the holders of our ordinary shares. Alternatively, if we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operational flexibility, and would also require us to fund additional interest expense. If additional financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully commercialize our products or to maintain the value of our technology while we seek opportunities to license and/or sell such technology (or part of it) to third parties. See "— If we are not able to realize the value of our technology and intellectual property by licensing/selling such technology, or by pursuing OEM and high volume sales opportunities, and, in addition, if we are unable to obtain additional financing while seeking such business opportunities, we may have to cease our operations". If we are unable to obtain financing, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and as a result we may have to cease our operations. Future sales of our ordinary shares could reduce our stock price. A substantial number of ordinary shares held by our current shareholders or issuable upon exercise of options and warrants are eligible for future sale in the public market, and may be sold in a registered offering under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, or pursuant to an exemption from registration. 27 We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations, which could cause us to miss expectations about these results and cause the trading price of our ordinary shares to decline. Fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations may result from numerous factors, including, among others: • M&A transactions or sale of any of our material assets; • our commercialization efforts and market acceptance of our products; • the performance of our third-party distributors; • our ability to manufacture our products efficiently; • practices of third-party payors with respect to reimbursement for our current or future products; • timing of regulatory approvals and clearances and our ability to maintain any such approvals and clearances; • our ability to develop, introduce and deploy new products and product enhancements that meet customer requirements in a timely manner; • changes to applicable federal, state, local and international laws or regulations; • changes to our effective tax rates; • delays in, or failures of, deliveries by our suppliers; • delays in shipping; • our ability to access capital and control expenses; • new product introductions by our competitors; • changes in our pricing and distribution terms or those of our competitors; • timing of research and development expenditures; and • market conditions in the diabetes medical devices industry and the global economy as a whole. These factors, some of which are not within our control, may cause the trading price of our ordinary shares to fluctuate substantially. In particular, if our quarterly results of operations fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our ordinary shares could drop suddenly and significantly. In addition, following the 2012 Reorganization, we may enter into licensing/sale transactions relating to our technology (or part of it) and OEM and high volume sales transactions. Therefore, we believe that future quarterly comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. The trading price of our ordinary shares may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our ordinary shares on The NASDAQ and the TASE has been volatile and we expect that it will continue to be so. The trading price of our ordinary shares may be affected by a number of factors, including, among others: • our failure to maintain and increase production capacity and reduce per unit production costs; • our failure to find and enter into licensing/sale transactions relating to our technology (or part of it) or OEM and high volume sales transactions; • our failure to regain compliance with the US$1 minimum bid price requirement as set forth in Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2), and therefore delisting of our ordinary shares from the The Nasdaq Capital Market.. • changes in the availability of third-party reimbursement in the United States or other countries; • the volume and timing of orders for our products; • developments in administrative proceedings or litigation related to intellectual property rights; • the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • the announcement of technological or medical innovations in the treatment or diagnosis of diabetes; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals or applications; • developments in our industry; • the publication of clinical studies relating to our products or a competitor’s product; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; and • general market conditions. 28 The above market and industry factors could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. Furthermore, certain historical fluctuations in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the TASE have been unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. Market volatility reached unprecedented levels in the second half of 2008, resulting in the bankruptcy or acquisition of, or government assistance to, several major U.S. and international financial institutions and a material decline in global economic conditions. In particular, the U.S. equity markets experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the trading prices of equity securities of many medical device and technology companies. Among other factors, continued uncertainty regarding global economic conditions could continue to cause the trading price of our ordinary shares to be volatile. We do not expect to pay dividends, and any return on investment may be limited to the value of our ordinary shares. We have never declared and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future. Our board of directors has discretion to declare and pay dividends on our ordinary shares and will make any determination to do so on a number of factors, including, among others, our earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, we may only pay dividends in any fiscal year out of “profits” (as defined by the Companies Law), provided that the distribution is not reasonably expected to impair our ability to fulfill our outstanding and expected obligations. If we do not pay dividends, our ordinary shares may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if the trading price of our ordinary shares appreciates. Risks Related to Taxation If at any time we are treated as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, under U.S. federal income tax laws, our U.S. shareholders may be subject to adverse tax consequences. We would be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, for any taxable year in which, after applying relevant look-through rules with respect to the income and assets of our subsidiaries, either at least 75% of our gross income is “passive income,” or on average at least 50% of the gross value of our assets is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. If we are classified as a PFIC at any time that a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Item 10E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations”) holds our ordinary shares, such holder could be subject to additional taxes and a special interest charge in respect of gain realized from the sale or other disposition of our ordinary shares and upon the receipt of “excess distributions” (as defined in the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code). In addition, special U.S. federal income tax reporting requirements will apply. Each U.S. Holder should consult its own tax advisor concerning the U.S. federal income tax consequences of holding our ordinary shares if we were a PFIC in any taxable year in light of such holder’s particular circumstances. 