ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business We are a recently organized corporation with a brief operating history and, therefore, we have limited historical operating data from which you can evaluate our future prospects. Given our limited operating history, you have little historical information upon which to evaluate our performance, including our ability to acquire aircraft on favorable terms or to enter into profitable aircraft leases. We cannot assure you that we will be able to accomplish our business objectives, that we will continue to achieve our objectives or that we will be able to continue to operate profitably. The results of our operations will depend on several factors, including the availability of opportunities for the acquisition, disposition and leasing of aircraft, our ability to capitalize on any such opportunities, the creditworthiness of our counterparties, the level of volatility of interest rates and commodities, the availability of adequate short- and long-term financing, conditions in the financial markets and other economic conditions, particularly as these conditions impact airlines and manufacturers of aircraft and aircraft parts. Our limited historical operations place us at a competitive disadvantage that our competitors may exploit. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into profitable leases for any aircraft acquired. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into profitable leases upon the acquisition of the aircraft we purchase in the future. If we experience significant delays in the implementation of our business strategies, including delays in the acquisition and leasing of aircraft, our growth strategy and long-term results of operations could be adversely affected. You must rely upon our management team's judgment and ability to evaluate the ability of lessees and other counterparties to perform their obligations to us and to negotiate transaction documents. We cannot assure you that our management team will be able to perform such functions in a manner that will achieve our investment objectives. Our business model depends on the continual leasing and re-leasing of our aircraft, and we may not be able to do so on favorable terms. Our business model depends on the continual leasing and re-leasing of our aircraft in order to generate sufficient revenues to finance our growth and operations, pay our debt service obligations and generate positive cash flows from operations. Our ability to lease and re-lease our aircraft will depend on general market and competitive conditions at the time the initial leases are entered into and expire. If we are not able to lease or re-lease an aircraft or to do so on favorable terms, we may be required to attempt to sell the aircraft to provide funds for our debt service obligations or operating expenses. Our ability to lease, re-lease or sell the aircraft on favorable terms or without significant off-lease time and costs could be adversely affected by depressed conditions in the airline and aircraft industries, airline bankruptcies, the effects of terrorism and war, the sale of other aircraft by financial institutions, and various other general market and competitive conditions and factors which are outside of our control. Incurring significant costs resulting from lease defaults could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. If we are required to repossess an aircraft after a lessee default, we may be required to incur significant costs. Those costs likely would include legal and other expenses of court or other governmental proceedings, including the cost of posting surety bonds or letters of credit necessary to effect repossession of an aircraft, particularly if the lessee is contesting the proceedings or is in bankruptcy. In addition, during these proceedings the relevant aircraft would likely not be generating 13 Table of Contents revenue. We could also incur substantial maintenance, refurbishment or repair costs if a defaulting lessee fails to pay such costs and where such maintenance, refurbishment or repairs are necessary to put the aircraft in suitable condition for re-lease or sale. We may also incur storage costs associated with any aircraft that we repossess and are unable to place immediately with another lessee. It may also be necessary to pay off liens, taxes and other governmental charges on the aircraft to obtain clear possession and to remarket the aircraft effectively, including, in some cases, liens that the lessor might have incurred in connection with the operation of its other aircraft. We could also incur other costs in connection with the physical possession of the aircraft. We may also suffer other adverse consequences as a result of a lessee default, the related termination of the lease and the repossession of the related aircraft. It is likely that our rights upon a lessee default will vary significantly depending upon the jurisdiction and the applicable law, including the need to obtain a court order for repossession of the aircraft and/or consents for deregistration or re-export of the aircraft. We anticipate that when a defaulting lessee is in bankruptcy, protective administration, insolvency or similar proceedings, additional limitations may apply. Certain jurisdictions give rights to the trustee in bankruptcy or a similar officer to assume or reject the lease or to assign it to a third party, or entitle the lessee or another third party to retain possession of the aircraft without paying lease rentals or performing all or some of the obligations under the relevant lease. In addition, certain of our lessees are owned, in whole or in part, by government-related entities, which could complicate our efforts to repossess our aircraft in that lessee's domicile. Accordingly, we may be delayed in, or prevented from, enforcing certain of our rights under a lease and in re-leasing the affected aircraft. If we repossess an aircraft, we may not necessarily be able to export or deregister and profitably redeploy the aircraft. For instance, where a lessee or other operator flies only domestic routes in the jurisdiction in which the aircraft is registered, repossession may be more difficult, especially if the jurisdiction permits the lessee or the other operator to resist deregistration. We may also incur significant costs in retrieving or recreating aircraft records required for registration of the aircraft, and in obtaining the Certificate of Airworthiness for an aircraft. If, upon a lessee default, we incur significant costs in connection with repossessing our aircraft, are delayed in repossessing our aircraft or are unable to obtain possession of our aircraft as a result of lessee defaults, our financial results and growth prospects may be materially adversely affected. If our lessees fail to discharge aircraft liens, we may be obligated to pay the aircraft liens, which could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. In the normal course of their business, our lessees are likely to incur aircraft liens that secure the payment of airport fees and taxes, customs duties, air navigation charges, including charges imposed by Eurocontrol, the European Organization for the Safety of Air Navigation, landing charges, salvage or other liens that may attach to our aircraft. These liens may secure substantial sums that may, in certain jurisdictions or for certain types of liens, particularly liens on entire fleets of aircraft, exceed the value of the particular aircraft to which the liens have attached. Aircraft may also be subject to mechanics' liens as a result of routine maintenance performed by third parties on behalf of our lessees. Although we anticipate that the financial obligations relating to these liens will be the responsibility of our lessees, if they fail to fulfill such obligations, the liens may attach to our aircraft and ultimately become our responsibility. In some jurisdictions, aircraft liens may give the holder thereof the right to detain or, in limited cases, sell or cause the forfeiture of the aircraft. Until they are discharged, these liens could impair our ability to repossess, re-lease or sell our aircraft. Our lessees may not comply with the anticipated obligations under their leases to discharge aircraft liens arising during the terms of the leases. If they do not, we may find it necessary to pay the claims secured by such aircraft liens in order to repossess the aircraft. Such payments could materially adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. 14 Table of Contents If our lessees fail to perform as expected and we decide to restructure or reschedule our leases, the restructuring and rescheduling would likely result in less favorable leases, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects. A lessee's ability to perform its obligations under its lease will depend primarily on the lessee's financial condition and cash flow, which may be affected by factors outside our control, including: •competition; •fare levels; •passenger and air cargo rates; •passenger and air cargo demand; •geopolitical and other events, including war, acts of terrorism, outbreaks of epidemic diseases and natural disasters; •increases in operating costs, including the price and availability of jet fuel and labor costs; •labor difficulties; •economic conditions and currency fluctuations in the countries and regions in which the lessee operates; and •governmental regulation and associated fees affecting the air transportation business. We anticipate that some lessees may experience a weakened financial condition or suffer liquidity problems, which may lead to lease payment difficulties or breaches of our operating leases. We expect that some of these lessees encountering financial difficulties may seek a reduction in their lease rates or other concessions, such as a decrease in their contribution toward maintenance obligations. Any future downturns in the airline industry could greatly exacerbate the weakened financial condition and liquidity problems of some of these lessees and further increase the risk of delayed, missed or reduced rental payments. We may not correctly assess the credit risk of a lessee, or may not charge lease rates which correctly reflect the related risks, and as a result, lessees may not be able to satisfy their financial and other obligations under their leases. A delayed, missed or reduced rental payment from a lessee would decrease our revenues and cash flow. If we, in the exercise of our remedies under a lease, repossess an aircraft, we may not be able to re-lease the aircraft promptly or at favorable rates. It is likely that restructurings and/or repossessions with some of our lessees will occur in the future. The terms and conditions of possible lease restructurings or reschedulings may result in a significant reduction of lease revenue, which may adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. If any request for payment restructuring or rescheduling is made and granted, reduced or deferred rental payments may be payable over all or some part of the remaining term of the lease, although the terms of any revised payment schedules may be unfavorable and such payments may not be made. Our default levels would likely increase over time if economic conditions deteriorate. If lessees of a significant number of our aircraft defaulted on their leases, our financial results and growth prospects would be adversely affected. Failure to obtain certain required licenses and approvals could negatively affect our ability to re-lease or sell aircraft, which would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Lessees are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the jurisdictions in which they are registered and in which they operate. As a result, we expect that certain aspects of our leases will require licenses, consents or approvals, including consents from governmental or regulatory authorities for certain payments under our leases and for the import, export or deregistration of the aircraft. Subsequent changes in applicable law or administrative practice may increase such requirements and 15 Table of Contents governmental consent, once given, could be withdrawn. Furthermore, consents needed in connection with the future re-leasing or sale of an aircraft may not be forthcoming. Any of these events could adversely affect our ability to re-lease or sell aircraft, which would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our aircraft require routine maintenance, and if they are not properly maintained, their value may decline and we may not be able to lease or re-lease such aircraft at favorable rates, if at all, which would adversely affect our financial results, asset values and growth prospects. We may be exposed to increased maintenance costs for our aircraft associated with a lessee's failure to properly maintain the aircraft or pay supplemental maintenance rent. If an aircraft is not properly maintained, its market value may decline, which would result in lower revenues from its lease or sale. We enter into leases pursuant to which the lessees are primarily responsible for many obligations, which include maintaining the aircraft and complying with all governmental requirements applicable to the lessee and the aircraft, including operational, maintenance, government agency oversight, registration requirements and airworthiness directives. Failure of a lessee to perform required maintenance during the term of a lease could result in a decrease in value of an aircraft, an inability to re-lease an aircraft at favorable rates, if at all, or a potential grounding of an aircraft. Maintenance failures by a lessee would also likely require us to incur maintenance and modification costs upon the termination of the applicable lease, which could be substantial, to restore the aircraft to an acceptable condition prior to re-leasing or sale. Any failure by our lessees to meet their obligations to perform required scheduled maintenance or our inability to maintain our aircraft may materially adversely affect our financial results, asset values and growth prospects. If we experience abnormally high maintenance or obsolescence issues with any commercial aircraft that we acquire, our financial results and growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Unlike new aircraft, used aircraft typically do not carry warranties as to their condition. As a result, we may not be able to claim any warranty-related expenses on used aircraft. Although we may inspect an existing aircraft and its documented maintenance, usage, lease and other records prior to acquisition, we may not discover every defect during an inspection. Repairs and maintenance costs for existing aircraft are difficult to predict and generally increase as aircraft age, and an aircraft's condition can be adversely affected by prior operations. These repair costs could decrease our cash flow and reduce our liquidity. In addition, aircraft are long-lived assets, requiring long lead times to develop and manufacture, with particular types and models becoming obsolete and less in demand over time when newer, more advanced aircraft are manufactured. By acquiring existing aircraft, we have greater exposure to more rapid obsolescence of our fleet, particularly if there are unanticipated events shortening the life cycle of such aircraft, such as government regulation or changes in our airline customers' preferences. This may result in a shorter life cycle for our fleet and, accordingly, declining lease rates, impairment charges, increased depreciation expense or losses related to aircraft asset value guarantees, if we were to provide such guarantees. Further, variable expenses like fuel, crew size or aging aircraft corrosion control or modification programs and airworthiness directives could make the operation of older aircraft more costly to our lessees and may result in increased lessee defaults. We may also incur some of these increased maintenance expenses and regulatory costs upon acquisition or re-leasing of our aircraft. Any of these expenses or costs will have a negative impact on our financial results. 16 Table of Contents If we acquire a high concentration of a particular model of aircraft, our business and financial results could be adversely affected by changes in market demand or problems specific to that aircraft model. If we acquire a high concentration of a particular model of aircraft, our business and financial results could be adversely affected if the market demand for that model of aircraft declines, if it is redesigned or replaced by its manufacturer or if this type of aircraft experiences design or technical problems. If we acquire a high concentration of a particular aircraft model and such model encounters technical or other problems, the value and lease rates of such aircraft will likely decline, and we may be unable to lease such aircraft on favorable terms, if at all. A significant technical problem with a specific type of aircraft could result in the grounding of the aircraft. Any decrease in the value and lease rates of our aircraft may have a material adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects. The advent of superior aircraft technology or the introduction of a new line of aircraft could cause the aircraft that we acquire to become outdated or obsolete and therefore less desirable, which could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. As manufacturers introduce technological innovations and new types of aircraft, some of the aircraft in our fleet could become less desirable to potential lessees. Such technological innovations may increase the rate of obsolescence of existing aircraft faster than currently anticipated by our management or accounted for in our accounting policy. New aircraft manufacturers, such as Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation in Japan, Sukhoi Company (JSC) in Russia and Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China Ltd. in China, could someday produce aircraft that compete with current offerings from Airbus, ATR, Boeing, Bombardier and Embraer. •Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation in Japan, Sukhoi Company (JSC) in Russia and Aviation Industries of China and Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China Ltd. in China will most likely be producing regional jets in the future that compete with existing equipment from Bombardier and Embraer, and it is unclear how these offerings could adversely impact the demand and liquidity for the current offerings. •Additionally, manufacturers in China may develop a narrowbody aircraft that competes with established aircraft types from Boeing and Airbus, and the new Chinese product could put downward price pressure on and decrease the liquidity for aircraft from Boeing and Airbus. •New aircraft types that are introduced into the market could be more attractive for the target lessees of our aircraft. In addition, the imposition of increased regulation regarding stringent noise or emissions restrictions may make some of our aircraft less desirable and less valuable in the marketplace. Any of these risks may adversely affect our ability to lease or sell our aircraft on favorable terms, if at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects. The advent of new technologies or introduction of a new type of aircraft may materially adversely affect the value of the aircraft in our fleet. We may be indirectly subject to many of the economic and political risks associated with emerging markets, which could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. Our business strategy emphasizes leasing aircraft to lessees outside of the United States, including to airlines in emerging market countries. Emerging market countries have less developed economies and infrastructure and are often more vulnerable to economic and geopolitical challenges and may experience significant fluctuations in gross domestic product, interest rates and currency exchange rates, as well as civil disturbances, government instability, nationalization and expropriation of private assets and the imposition of taxes or other charges by government authorities. The occurrence of any of these events in markets served by our lessees and the resulting economic instability that may arise, 17 Table of Contents particularly if combined with high fuel prices, could adversely affect the value of our aircraft subject to lease in such countries, or the ability of our lessees, which operate in these markets, to meet their lease obligations. As a result, lessees that operate in emerging market countries may be more likely to default than lessees that operate in developed countries. In addition, legal systems in emerging market countries may be less developed, which could make it more difficult for us to enforce our legal rights in such countries. Further, demand for aircraft is dependent on passenger and cargo traffic, which in turn is dependent on general business and economic conditions. As a result, weak or negative economic growth in emerging markets may have an indirect effect on the value of the assets that we acquire if airlines and other potential lessees are adversely affected. We cannot assure you that the recent global economic downturn will not continue or worsen or that any assets we purchase will not decline in value, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or our financial condition. For these and other reasons, our financial results and growth prospects may be negatively impacted by adverse economic and political developments in emerging market countries. A significant discounting of prices on new aircraft by manufacturers or increase in the rate of new aircraft production may indirectly affect demand for used aircraft we purchase for leasing and our financial results and growth prospects. The recent financial crisis has had a significant impact on the values of new aircraft as some buyers lost some or all of the funding for orders they had placed. As a result, some orders for new aircraft were cancelled or deferred. Ex-Im Bank and the European Export Credit Agencies ("ECAs") supported debt financing for many new deliveries during the recent financial crisis but equity was still needed for these financings, which limited buyers' access to these agencies. Consequently, to secure sales of new aircraft and maintain revenues, manufacturers sold many of these aircraft at significant discounts. If there is another downturn in the financial markets or economy and manufacturers again drive down the price of new aircraft, this may have an adverse effect on the value of any aircraft we own and our ability to lease them at attractive rates. We intend for used aircraft to make up a part of our target assets and our ability to extend leases or create new leases may be adversely affected by a surplus in the availability of new aircraft. Further, if manufacturers discount the prices of new aircraft, it may require us to mark down the value of aircraft we carry on our balance sheet or depreciate our aircraft portfolio at a faster rate. Thus, a significant decrease in the prices of new aircraft could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The introduction of new aircraft models could increase the supply of other aircraft types, which could in turn decrease the value and lease rates of aircraft in our portfolio. As manufacturers introduce new types of aircraft, certain aircraft in the marketplace may become less desirable to potential lessees. For example, on December 1, 2010, Airbus announced the launch of the NEO program, which involves the offering of two new engine types—one from Pratt & Whitney, a division of United Technologies Corporation, and the other from CFM International, Inc.—on certain Airbus A319/A320/A321 aircraft. These aircraft are scheduled to commence delivery in 2015. In addition, Boeing has announced the launch of the Boeing 737 MAX to replace the Boeing 737-700/800/900ER. The Boeing 737 MAX will feature a new engine type from CFM International, Inc. and is scheduled to commence delivery in 2017. The development of these new aircraft and engine options could decrease the desirability of certain Airbus and Boeing aircraft and thereby increase the supply of those types of aircraft in the marketplace. These increases in supply could, in turn, reduce both future residual values and lease rates for certain types of aircraft in our portfolio. 18 Table of Contents From time to time, the aircraft industry has experienced periods of oversupply during which lease rates and aircraft values have declined, and any future oversupply could materially adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. Historically, the aircraft leasing business has experienced periods of aircraft oversupply. The oversupply of a specific type of aircraft is likely to depress the lease rates for and the value of that type of aircraft. The supply and demand for aircraft is affected by various cyclical and non-cyclical factors that are outside of our control, including: •passenger and air cargo demand; •fuel costs and general economic conditions; •geopolitical events, including war, prolonged armed conflict and acts of terrorism; •outbreaks of communicable diseases and natural disasters; •governmental regulation; •interest rates; •the availability of credit; •airline restructurings and bankruptcies; •manufacturer production levels and technological innovation; •manufacturers merging or exiting the industry or ceasing to produce aircraft types; •retirement and obsolescence of aircraft models; •reintroduction into service of aircraft previously in storage; and •airport and air traffic control infrastructure constraints. In addition, due to the recent economic downturn and increased financial pressures, a number of operating lessors may be sold or merged with other operating lessors. The sale of any of these operating lessors (which may include a reduction in their aircraft fleets) and, in particular, their aircraft portfolios, could increase supply levels of used and older aircraft in the market. These factors may produce sharp and prolonged decreases in aircraft lease rates and values and have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease or re-lease the commercial aircraft that we ultimately acquire and on our ability to sell such aircraft and parts at acceptable prices. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. The value of the aircraft we acquire and the market rates for leases could decline and this could have a material adverse effect on financial results and growth prospects of aircraft lessors. Aircraft values and market rates for leases have from time to time experienced sharp decreases due to a number of factors including, but not limited to, decreases in passenger and air cargo demand, increases in fuel costs, government regulation and increases in interest rates. Operating leases place the risk of realization of residual values on aircraft lessors because only a portion of the equipment's value is covered by contractual cash flows at lease inception. In addition to factors linked to the aviation industry generally, many other factors may affect the value of the aircraft that we acquire and market rates for leases, including: •the particular maintenance, operating history and documentary records of the aircraft; •the number of operators using that type of aircraft; •aircraft age; 19 Table of Contents •the regulatory authority under which the aircraft is operated; •any renegotiation of an existing lease on less favorable terms; •the negotiability of clear title free from mechanics' liens and encumbrances; •any regulatory and legal requirements that must be satisfied before the aircraft can be purchased, sold or re-leased; •compatibility of aircraft configurations or specifications with other aircraft owned by operators of that type; •comparative value based on newly manufactured competitive aircraft; and •the availability of spare parts. Any decrease in the value of aircraft that we acquire and market rates for leases, which may result from the above factors or other unanticipated factors, may have a material adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects. Competition from other aircraft lessors with greater resources or a lower cost of capital than ours could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. The aircraft leasing industry is highly competitive, and although it is comprised of over 100 aircraft lessors, the top five lessors in terms of the number of aircraft owned control more than 50% of the total number of aircraft that are currently on lease. We believe most of our primary competitors—those top five aircraft lessors—are significantly larger, have a longer operating history and may have greater resources or lower cost of capital than ours; accordingly, they may be able to compete more effectively in one or more of the markets we conduct business in. In addition, we may encounter competition from other entities in the acquisition of aircraft such as: •airlines; •financial institutions; •aircraft brokers; •public and private partnerships, investors and funds with more capital to invest in aircraft; and •other aircraft leasing companies that we do not currently consider our major competitors. Competition for a leasing transaction is based principally upon lease rates, delivery dates, lease terms, reputation, management expertise, aircraft condition, specifications and configuration and the availability of the types of aircraft necessary to meet the needs of the customer. Competition in the purchase and sale of used aircraft is based principally on the availability of used aircraft, price, and where applicable the terms of the lease to which an aircraft is subject and the creditworthiness of the lessee. We likely will not always be able to compete successfully with our competitors and other entities, which could materially adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. Given the financial condition of the airline industry, many airlines have reduced their capacity by eliminating select types of aircraft from their fleets, affecting the prices both of the aircraft types they eliminate and the types they continue to use. This elimination of certain aircraft from their fleets has resulted in an increase in the availability of such aircraft in the market, a decrease in rental rates for such aircraft and a decrease in market values of such aircraft. We cannot assure you that airlines will continue to acquire the same types of aircraft, or that we will not acquire aircraft that cease to be in use by our potential lessees. 20 Table of Contents There are a limited number of airframe and engine manufacturers and the failure of any manufacturer to meet its delivery obligations to us could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. The supply of commercial aircraft is dominated by a few airframe manufacturers, including Boeing, Airbus, Embraer and ATR and a limited number of engine manufacturers, such as GE Aviation, Rolls-Royce plc, Pratt & Whitney, a division of United Technologies Corporation, IAE International Aero Engines AG and CFM International, Inc. As a result, we will be dependent on the success of these manufacturers in remaining financially stable, producing products and related components which meet the airlines' demands and fulfilling any contractual obligations they may have to us. Should the manufacturers fail to respond appropriately to changes in the market environment or fail to fulfill any contractual obligations they might have to us, we may experience: •missed or late delivery of aircraft and a potential inability to meet our contractual obligations owed to any of our then lessees, resulting in potential lost or delayed revenues, lower growth rates and strained customer relationships; •an inability to acquire aircraft and related components on terms which will allow us to lease those aircraft to airline customers at a profit, resulting in lower growth rates or a contraction in our aircraft fleet; •a market environment with too many aircraft available, potentially creating downward pressure on demand for the anticipated aircraft in our fleet and reduced market lease rates and sale prices; or •a reduction in our competitiveness due to deep discounting by the manufacturers, which may lead to reduced market lease rates and aircraft values and may affect our ability to remarket or sell at a profit, or at all, some of the aircraft in our fleet. There have been recent well-publicized delays by Boeing and Airbus in meeting stated deadlines in bringing new aircraft to market. If there are manufacturing delays for aircraft for which we have made future lease commitments, some or all of our affected lessees could elect to terminate their lease arrangements with respect to such delayed aircraft. Any such termination could strain our relations with those lessees going forward and adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. Aircraft have limited economically useful lives and depreciate over time, which could adversely affect our financial condition and growth prospects. As commercial aircraft age, they will depreciate and generally the aircraft will generate lower revenues and cash flows. We must be able to replace such older depreciated aircraft with newer aircraft, or our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and cash flow will decline. In addition, since we depreciate our aircraft for accounting purposes on a straight-line basis to the aircraft's residual value over its estimated useful life, if we dispose of an aircraft for a price that is less than the depreciated book value of the aircraft on our balance sheet, we will recognize a loss on the sale. Failure to close our aircraft acquisition commitments could negatively impact our share price and financial results. As of December 31, 2011, we had binding and non-binding purchase commitments to acquire a total of 239 new and used aircraft for delivery through 2020. If we are unable to maintain our financing sources or find new sources of financing or if the various conditions to our existing commitments are not satisfied, we may be unable to close the purchase of some or all of the aircraft which we have 21 Table of Contents commitments to acquire. If our aircraft acquisition commitments are not closed for these or other reasons, we will be subject to several risks, including the following: •forfeiting deposits and progress payments and having to pay and expense certain significant costs relating to these commitments, such as actual damages, and legal, accounting and financial advisory expenses, and not realizing any of the benefits of completing the transactions; •defaulting on our lease commitments, which could result in monetary damages and damage to our reputation and relationships with lessees; and •failing to capitalize on other aircraft acquisition opportunities that were not pursued due to our management's focus on these commitments. If we determine that the capital we require to satisfy these commitments may not be available to us, either at all or on terms we deem attractive, we may eliminate or reduce any dividend program that may be in place at that time in order to preserve capital to apply to these commitments. These risks could materially adversely affect our share price and financial results. Our credit facilities may limit our operational flexibility, our ability to effectively compete and our ability to grow our business as currently planned. Our credit facilities contain financial and non-financial covenants, such as requirements that we comply with one or more of the following covenants: debt-to-equity, dividend restrictions, minimum net worth and interest coverage ratios, change of control provisions, and prohibitions against our disposing of our aircraft or other aviation assets without a lender's prior consent. Complying with such covenants may at times necessitate that we forego other opportunities, such as using available cash to grow our aircraft fleet or promptly disposing of less profitable aircraft or other aviation assets. Moreover, our failure to comply with any of these covenants would likely constitute a default under such facilities and could give rise to an acceleration of some, if not all, of our then outstanding indebtedness, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to continue as a going concern. We have applied for ECA and Ex-Im Bank supported credit facilities and credit facilities provided by BNDES. We expect that, similar to commercial lenders, the ECAs, Ex-Im Bank and BNDES will require certain structural and operational restrictions to be included in the terms of the operating leases, particularly with respect to subleasing, insurance and the possession, use and location of the aircraft financed under such facilities. The imposition of these mandatory provisions could significantly restrict a lessee's business operations, which may cause such aircraft to be less desirable to potential lessees and make it more difficult for us to negotiate operating leases for such aircraft on favorable terms. In addition, the credit facilities supported by the ECAs and Ex-Im Bank may contain certain change of control provisions, which would require us to prepay the loans in the event that our ownership structure changes. Complying with such change of control provisions may also require us to forego other opportunities, which may adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, we cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt and grow our operations as planned. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on favorable terms, if at all. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flow or maintain our existing fleet and facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We will need additional capital to finance our growth, and we may not be able to obtain it on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which may limit our ability to satisfy our commitments to acquire additional aircraft and to compete effectively in the commercial aircraft leasing market. Growing our fleet will require substantial additional capital. Accordingly, we will need to obtain additional financing, which may not be available to us on favorable terms or at all. Our access to 22 Table of Contents additional sources of financing will depend upon a number of factors over which we have limited control, including: •general market conditions; •the market's view of the quality of our assets; •the market's perception of our growth potential; •interest rate fluctuations; •our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; and •the market price of our Class A Common Stock. Weaknesses in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect one or more private lenders and could cause one or more private lenders to be unwilling or unable to provide us with financing or to increase the costs of that financing. In addition, if there are new regulatory capital requirements imposed on our private lenders, they may be required to limit, or increase the cost of, financing they provide to us. In general, this could potentially increase our financing costs and reduce our liquidity or require us to sell assets at an inopportune time or price. If we are unable to raise additional funds or obtain capital on terms acceptable to us, we may not be able to satisfy funding requirements should we have any aircraft acquisition commitments then in place. If we are unable to satisfy our purchase commitments, we may be forced to forfeit our deposits. Further, we would be exposed to potential breach of contract claims by our lessees and manufacturers. These risks may also be increased by the volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets. Depending on market conditions at the time, we may have to rely more heavily on additional equity issuances, which may be dilutive to our stockholders, or on less efficient forms of debt financing that require a larger portion of our cash flow from operations, thereby reducing funds available for our operations, future business opportunities and other purposes. Moreover, if additional capital is raised through the issuance of additional equity securities, the interests of existing stockholders could be diluted. Because our charter permits the issuance of preferred stock, if our board of directors approves the issuance of preferred stock in a future financing transaction, such preferred stockholders may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to existing stockholders, and you will not have the ability to approve such a transaction. We may not be able to obtain debt refinancing on attractive terms, if at all, or qualify for guarantees, or obtain attractive terms for such guarantees, from the ECAs, Ex-Im Bank or SBCE, any of which may adversely affect our growth strategy and results of operations. Our business model contemplates our ability to enter into attractive and economical long-term financing transactions. Conditions in the capital markets or debt markets may prevent us from entering into long-term debt financing arrangements on terms favorable to us, if at all, which could cause such financings to be more costly or otherwise less attractive to us. Obtaining credit support from the ECAs, Ex-Im Bank and SBCE could facilitate our access to long-term financing, but the ECAs, Ex-Im Bank and SBCE have in place certain pre-approval criteria that must be met in order to qualify for, and gain access to, the credit support or financing from such agencies, and we cannot assure you that we would qualify for financing under these programs. While we have obtained credit approval from the ECAs for a portion of our 2012 deliveries, if in the future we are unable to meet the pre-approval criteria of these entities, whether due to changes in our financial condition or changes in the underlying criteria, or if the entities discontinue providing credit support, or if there are changes in the economic terms of the programs sponsored by these agencies, then we may no longer be able to access such favorable credit support, which may cause the terms of the debt financing that we are able to obtain, if any, to be less favorable. A new aircraft sector understanding ("ASU") governing credit support from the ECAs, 23 Table of Contents Ex-Im Bank and SBCE went into effect on February 1, 2011. While these government-sponsored financings have historically provided favorable funding levels at interest rates below those obtainable from traditional commercial sources, under the new ASU, aircraft under firm contract after December 31, 2010 or scheduled for delivery after December 31, 2012 will be subject to significantly higher guarantee fees, which may make such financings less attractive to us than alternative sources of financing. Aircraft under firm contract on or before December 31, 2010 and scheduled to deliver on or before December 31, 2012 are grandfathered under the new ASU and are not subject to the higher fee structure. While we are pursuing credit support from the ECAs, Ex-Im Bank and SBCE for our grandfathered aircraft, it is uncertain at this time whether we would be able to obtain attractive financing terms from these government-sponsored programs for our non-grandfathered aircraft. To the extent we are unable to obtain attractive financing terms, we would be more limited in the sources of favorable financing available to us. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that in the future we will be able to access long-term financing or credit support from the ECAs, Ex-Im Bank or SBCE on favorable terms, if at all. Our inability to access such financing or credit support could adversely affect our growth strategy and results of operations. An unexpected increase in our borrowing costs may adversely affect our earnings. We finance many of the aircraft in our fleet through a combination of short- and long-term debt financings. As these debt financings mature, we may have to refinance these existing commitments by entering into new financings, which could result in higher borrowing costs, or repay them by using cash on hand or cash from the sale of our assets. Moreover, an increase in interest rates under the various debt financing facilities we have in place would have an adverse effect on our earnings and could make our aircraft leasing contracts unprofitable. Our Warehouse Facility, as amended, has incremental increases in the interest rate beginning in June 2013 (absent an earlier termination of this period, or the extension of this period, which will require the consent of the agent thereunder and all of the lenders). In addition, the terms of the Warehouse Facility will then become more stringent, including principal amortization and increases in the interest rate, thereby adversely affecting our cash flows and profitability. The Warehouse Facility and some of our other debt financings bear interest at a floating rate, such that our interest expense would vary with changes in the applicable reference rate. As a result, our inability to sufficiently protect ourselves from changes in our cost of borrowing, as reflected in our composite interest rate, may have a direct, negative impact on our net income. Our lease rental stream is generally fixed over the life of our leases, whereas we have used floating-rate debt to finance a significant portion of our aircraft acquisitions. As of December 31, 2011, we had $2.0 billion in floating-rate debt. If interest rates increase, we would be obligated to make higher interest payments to our lenders. If we incur significant fixed-rate debt in the future, increased interest rates prevailing in the market at the time of the incurrence of such debt would also increase our interest expense. If our composite interest rate were to increase by 1.0%, we would expect to incur additional interest expense on our existing indebtedness as of December 31, 2011, of approximately $20.0 million on an annualized basis, which would negatively affect our operating margins. The interest rates that we obtain on our debt financings have several components, including credit spreads, swap spreads, duration, and new issue premiums. These are all incremental to the underlying risk-free rates, as applicable. Volatility in our perceived risk of default or in a market sector's risk of default will negatively impact our cost of funds. We currently are not involved in any interest rate hedging activities, but we are contemplating engaging in hedging activities in the future. Any such hedging activities will require us to incur 24 Table of Contents additional costs, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully protect ourselves from any or all adverse interest rate fluctuations at a reasonable cost. Our substantial indebtedness incurred to acquire our aircraft requires significant debt service payments. As of December 31, 2011, we had $2.6 billion in debt outstanding, and we expect this amount to grow as we acquire more aircraft. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service payments, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, dispose of assets, issue equity or incur additional debt to obtain necessary funds, or restructure our debt, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure that we would be able to take any of these actions on terms acceptable to us, or at all, that these actions would enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our various debt agreements. Under our Warehouse Facility and other of our financing arrangements, creditors of any subsidiaries we form for purposes of such facilities will have priority over our stockholders in the event of a distribution of such subsidiaries' assets. All of the aircraft and other assets we acquire with the Warehouse Facility are held in subsidiaries of ALC Warehouse Borrower, LLC, a special-purpose, bankruptcy-remote subsidiary of our Company. Liens on those assets will be held by a collateral agent for the benefit of the lenders under such facility. ALC Warehouse Borrower, LLC's assets will be primarily composed of its investment in the stock or other equity interests of these subsidiaries, which stock or other equity interests will also be subject to liens held by the collateral agent for the benefit of the lenders under such facility. In addition, funds generated from the lease of aircraft in the Warehouse Facility generally are applied first to amounts due to lenders thereunder, with certain exceptions. As a result, the creditors in the Warehouse Facility will have priority over us and our stockholders in any distribution of ALC Warehouse Borrower, LLC's subsidiaries' assets in a liquidation, reorganization or otherwise. Similarly, creditors of other of our special-purpose, bankruptcy-remote subsidiaries that were established for some of our other financing arrangements will have priority over our stockholders in the event of a distribution of such subsidiaries' assets. Defaults by one or more of our significant airline customers may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and earnings and our ability to meet our debt obligations. The airline industry is cyclical, economically sensitive and highly competitive. Our lessees are affected by fuel prices and shortages, political or economic instability, terrorist activities, changes in national policy, competitive pressures, labor actions, pilot shortages, insurance costs, recessions, health concerns, and other political or economic events adversely affecting the world or regional trading markets. Our lessees' abilities to react to and cope with the volatile competitive environment in which they operate, as well as our own competitive environment, will likely affect our revenues and income. The loss of one or more of our significant airline customers or their inability to make operating lease payments due to financial difficulties, bankruptcy or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and earnings. This, in turn, could result in a breach of the covenants contained in any of our long-term debt facilities, possibly resulting in accelerated amortization or defaults and materially adversely affecting our ability to meet our debt obligations. 25 Table of Contents To a large extent, our success also depends upon our ability to access financing on favorable terms, including accessing the public and private debt and equity markets and bank loans, to finance the purchase of aircraft and repay outstanding debt obligations as they mature. If disruptions in credit markets occur, we may not be able to obtain financing from third parties on favorable terms, if at all. During the recent financial crisis, many companies experienced downward pressure on share prices and had limited or no access to the credit markets, often without regard to their underlying financial strength. If financial market disruption and volatility were to occur again, we cannot assure you that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital, on our cost of capital or on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We will be exposed to risk from volatility and disruption in the financial markets in various ways, including: •difficulty or inability to finance obligations for, or to finance a portion of, the acquisition of aircraft; •increased risk of default by our lessees resulting from financial market distress, lack of available credit or continuing effects of the global economic recession; •exposure to increased bank or counterparty risk in the current environment, including the risk that our counterparties will not be able to perform their obligations under contracts effectively locking in interest rates for our debt that has a floating interest rate feature and the risk that, if banks issue letters of credit to us in lieu of cash security deposits from our lessees, such banks may fail to pay when we seek to draw on these letters of credit; and •the risk that we will not be able to re-finance any of our debt financings, as they come due, on favorable terms or at all. Certain of our subsidiaries may be restricted in their ability to make distributions to us. The subsidiaries that hold our aircraft are legally distinct from us, and some of these subsidiaries are restricted from paying dividends or otherwise making funds available to us pursuant to agreements governing our indebtedness. All of our principal debt facilities have financial covenants. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, then the amounts outstanding under these facilities may become immediately due and payable, cash generated by our subsidiaries affected by these facilities may be unavailable to us and/or we may be unable to draw additional amounts under these facilities. The events that could cause some of our subsidiaries not to be in compliance with their loan agreements, such as a lessee default, may be beyond our control, but they nevertheless could have a substantial adverse impact on the amount of our cash flow available to fund working capital, make capital expenditures and satisfy other cash needs. For a description of the operating and financial restrictions in our debt facilities, see the section titled "Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—Liquidity and capital resources." Our aircraft may not at all times be adequately insured either as a result of lessees failing to maintain sufficient insurance during the course of a lease or insurers not being willing to cover certain risks. We do not directly control the operation of any aircraft we acquire. Nevertheless, because we hold title, directly or indirectly, to such aircraft, we could be sued or held strictly liable for losses resulting from the operation of such aircraft, or may be held liable for those losses on other legal theories, in certain jurisdictions around the world, or claims may be made against us as the owner of an aircraft requiring us to expend resources in our defense. We require our lessees to obtain specified levels of insurance and indemnify us for, and insure against, liabilities arising out of their use and operation of the aircraft. Some lessees may fail to maintain adequate insurance coverage during a lease term, which, although in contravention of the lease terms, would necessitate our taking some corrective action such 26 Table of Contents as terminating the lease or securing insurance for the aircraft, either of which could adversely affect our financial results. In addition, there are certain risks or liabilities that our lessees may face, for which insurers may be unwilling to provide coverage or the cost to obtain such coverage may be prohibitively expensive. For example, following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, non-government aviation insurers significantly reduced the amount of insurance coverage available for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war, dirty bombs, bio-hazardous materials, electromagnetic pulsing or similar events. Accordingly, we anticipate that our lessees' insurance or other coverage may not be sufficient to cover all claims that could or will be asserted against us arising from the operation of our aircraft by our lessees. Inadequate insurance coverage or default by lessees in fulfilling their indemnification or insurance obligations will reduce the proceeds that would be received by us in the event that we are sued and are required to make payments to claimants, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects. The death, incapacity or departure of key officers could harm our business and financial results. We believe our senior management's reputation and relationships with lessees, manufacturers, buyers and financiers of aircraft are a critical element to the success of our business. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of our management team. We believe there are only a limited number of available qualified executives in the aircraft industry, and we therefore have encountered, and will likely continue to encounter, intense competition for qualified employees from other companies in our industry. Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, upon the continued service of our senior management personnel, particularly: Mr. Udvar-Házy, our founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mr. Plueger, our President and Chief Operating Officer; and our other senior officers, including Messrs. Levy, Baer, Khatibi, Chen, Willis and Poerschke, each of whose services are critical to the successful implementation of our business strategies. We only have employment agreements with Messrs. Udvar-Házy and Plueger and have no intention at this time to enter into employment agreements with any of our other senior officers. If we were to lose the services of any of the members of our senior management team, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Conflicts of interest may arise between us and clients who will utilize our fleet management services, which may adversely affect our business interests. Conflicts of interest may arise between us and third-party aircraft owners, financiers and operating lessors who hire us to perform fleet management services such as leasing, re-leasing, lease management and sales services. These conflicts may arise because services we anticipate providing for these clients are also services we will provide for our own fleet, including the placement of aircraft with lessees. We expect our fleet management services agreements will provide that we will use our reasonable commercial efforts in providing services, but, to the extent that we are in competition with the client for leasing opportunities, we will give priority to our own fleet. Nevertheless, despite these contractual waivers, competing with our fleet management clients in practice may result in strained relationships with them, which may adversely affect our business interests. We may on occasion enter into strategic ventures with the intent that we would serve as the manager of such strategic ventures; however, entering into strategic relationships poses risks in that we most likely would not have complete control over the enterprise, and our financial results and growth prospects could be adversely affected if we encounter disputes, deadlock or other conflicts of interest with our strategic partners. We may on occasion enter into strategic ventures with third parties to take advantage of favorable financing opportunities or tax benefits, to share capital and/or operating risk, and/or to earn fleet management fees. Although we anticipate that we would serve as the manager of any such strategic 27 Table of Contents ventures, it has been our management's experience that most strategic venture agreements will provide the non-managing strategic partner certain veto rights over various significant actions, including the right to remove us as the manager under certain circumstances. If we were to be removed as the manager from a strategic venture that generates significant management fees, our financial results and growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we were unable to resolve a dispute with a significant strategic partner that retains material managerial veto rights, we might reach an impasse that could require us to dissolve the strategic venture at a time and in a manner that could result in our losing some or all of our original investment in the strategic venture, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects. Our business and earnings are affected by general business, financial market and economic conditions throughout the world, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. Our business and earnings are affected by general business, financial market and economic conditions throughout the world. As an aircraft leasing business focused on emerging markets, we are particularly exposed to downturns in these emerging markets. A recession or worsening of economic conditions, particularly if combined with high fuel prices, may have a material adverse effect on the ability of our lessees to meet their financial and other obligations under our operating leases, which, if our lessees default on their obligations to us, could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. General business and economic conditions that could affect us include the level and volatility of short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, employment levels, bankruptcies, demand for passenger and cargo air travel, volatility in both debt and equity capital markets, liquidity of the global financial markets, the availability and cost of credit, investor confidence and the strength of the global economy and the local economies in which we operate. Additional terrorist attacks or the fear of such attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect lessees and the airline industry. As a result of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States and subsequent terrorist attacks abroad, notably in the Middle East, Southeast Asia and Europe, increased security restrictions were implemented on air travel, costs for aircraft insurance and security measures increased, passenger and cargo demand for air travel decreased, and operators faced, and to a certain extent, continue to face, increased difficulties in acquiring war risk and other insurance at reasonable costs. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks resulted in substantial flight disruption costs caused by the temporary grounding of the U.S. airline industry's fleet and prohibition of all flights in and out of the U.S. by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration, significantly increased security costs and associated passenger inconvenience, increased insurance costs, substantially higher ticket refunds and significantly decreased traffic. Additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of or any precautions taken in anticipation of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or reduction of flights), could materially adversely affect lessees and the airline industry. The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and additional international hostilities, including heightened terrorist activity, could also have a material adverse impact on our lessees' financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Lessees' financial resources might not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any further terrorist attacks or other international hostilities involving the United States or U.S. interests, which could result in significant decreases in aircraft leasing transactions and thereby materially adversely affect our results of operations. 28 Table of Contents Increases in fuel costs could materially adversely affect our lessees and by extension the demand for our aircraft. Fuel costs represent a major expense to airlines, and fuel prices fluctuate widely depending primarily on international market conditions, geopolitical and environmental events, regulatory changes (including those related to greenhouse gas emissions) and currency exchange rates. If airlines are unable to increase ticket prices to offset fuel price increases, their cash flows will suffer. Political unrest in the Middle East and North Africa has generated uncertainty regarding the predictability of the world's future oil supply, which recently led to significant near-term increases in fuel costs. If this unrest continues, fuel costs may continue to rise in the future. Other events can also significantly affect fuel availability and prices, including natural disasters (such as the recent natural disaster in Japan), decisions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries regarding their members' oil output, and the increase in global demand for fuel from countries such as China. High fuel costs, such as the increases that have recently occurred and fuel cost increases that could occur in the future, would likely have a material adverse impact on airline profitability. Due to the competitive nature of the airline industry, airlines may not be able to pass on increases in fuel prices to their passengers by increasing fares. If airlines are successful in increasing fares, demand for air travel may be adversely affected. In addition, airlines may not be able to manage fuel cost risk by appropriately hedging their exposure to fuel price fluctuations. If fuel price increases continue to occur, they are likely to cause our lessees to incur higher costs or experience reduced revenues. Consequently, these conditions may: •affect our lessees' ability to make rental and other lease payments; •result in lease restructurings and aircraft and engine repossessions; •increase our costs of maintaining and marketing aircraft; •impair our ability to re-lease aircraft and other aviation assets or re-lease or otherwise sell our assets on a timely basis at favorable rates; or •reduce the sale proceeds received for aircraft or other aviation assets upon any disposition. Such effects could materially adversely affect demand for our aircraft. A deterioration in the financial condition of the airline industry would have an adverse impact on our ability to lease our aircraft and sustain our revenues. The financial condition of the airline industry is of particular importance to us because we plan to lease our aircraft to passenger airlines. Our ability to achieve our primary business objectives will depend on the financial condition and growth of the airline industry. The risks affecting airlines are generally out of our control, but because these risks have a significant impact on our intended airline customers, they will affect us as well. We may experience: •downward pressure on demand for our aircraft and reduced market lease rates and lease margins; •a higher incidence of lessee defaults, lease restructurings, repossessions and airline bankruptcies and restructurings, resulting in lower lease margins due to maintenance and legal costs associated with repossession, as well as lost revenue for the time our aircraft are off lease and possibly lower lease rates from our new lessees; and •an inability to lease aircraft on commercially acceptable terms, resulting in lower lease margins due to aircraft not earning revenue and resulting in storage, insurance and maintenance costs. 29 Table of Contents SARS, H1N1 and other epidemic diseases may hinder airline travel and reduce the demand for aircraft. The outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome ("SARS") materially adversely affected passenger demand for air travel in 2003. In addition, since 2003, there have been several outbreaks of avian influenza, or the bird flu, beginning in Asia and, eventually, spreading to certain parts of Africa and Europe. More recently, there was a global outbreak of the H1N1 virus, or the swine flu, which depressed travel due to fears of a global pandemic. Additional outbreaks of SARS, bird flu, swine flu or other pandemic diseases, or the fear of such events, could provoke responses, including government-imposed travel restrictions, which could negatively affect passenger demand for air travel and the financial condition of the aviation industry. The consequences of these events may reduce the demand for aircraft and/or impair our lessees' ability to satisfy their lease payment obligations to us, which in turn would adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. Natural disasters and other natural phenomena may disrupt air travel and reduce the demand for aircraft. Air travel can be disrupted, sometimes severely, by the occurrence of natural disasters and other natural phenomena. A natural disaster could cause disruption to air travel and could result in a reduced demand for aircraft and/or impair our lessees' ability to satisfy their lease payment obligations to us, which in turn would adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. The effects of various environmental regulations may negatively affect the airline industry, which may in turn cause lessees to default on their lease payment obligations to us. Governmental regulations regarding aircraft and engine noise and emissions levels apply based on where the relevant aircraft is registered and operated. For example, jurisdictions throughout the world have adopted noise regulations which require all aircraft to comply with noise level standards. In addition to the current requirements, the United States and the International Civil Aviation Organization (the "ICAO"), have adopted a new, more stringent set of standards for noise levels which applies to engines manufactured or certified on or after January 1, 2006. Currently, U.S. regulations would not require any phase-out of aircraft that qualify with the older standards applicable to engines manufactured or certified prior to January 1, 2006, but the European Union has established a framework for the imposition of operating limitations on aircraft that do not comply with the new standards and incorporated aviation-related emissions into the European Union's Emission Trading Scheme beginning in 2012. These regulations could limit the economic life of the aircraft and engines, reduce their value, limit our ability to lease or sell the non-compliant aircraft and engines or, if engine modifications are permitted, require us to make significant additional investments in the aircraft and engines to make them compliant. In addition to more stringent noise restrictions, the United States and other jurisdictions are beginning to impose more stringent limits on nitrogen oxide, carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide emissions from engines, consistent with current ICAO standards. These limits generally apply only to engines manufactured after 1999. Because aircraft engines are replaced from time to time in the normal course, it is likely that the number of such engines would increase over time. Concerns over global warming could result in more stringent limitations on the operation of aircraft powered by older, noncompliant engines, as well as newer engines. European countries generally have relatively strict environmental regulations that can restrict operational flexibility and decrease aircraft productivity. The European Parliament has confirmed that aviation is to be included in the European Union's Emissions Trading Scheme starting in 2012, and that all of the emissions associated with international flights that land or take off within the European Union will be subject to the trading program, even those emissions that are emitted outside of the European Union. Although many airlines, airline industry organizations and various foreign governments are challenging the extra-territorial application of the Emissions Trading Scheme, this 30 Table of Contents inclusion could possibly distort the European air transport market, leading to higher ticket prices and ultimately a reduction in the number of airline passengers. In response to these concerns, European airlines have established the Committee for Environmentally Friendly Aviation to promote the positive environmental performance of airlines. The United Kingdom doubled its air passenger duties, effective February 1, 2007, in recognition of the environmental costs of air travel. Similar measures may be implemented in other jurisdictions as a result of environmental concerns. Compliance with current or future regulations, taxes or duties imposed to deal with environmental concerns could cause lessees to incur higher costs and to generate lower net revenues, resulting in an adverse impact on their financial conditions. Consequently, such compliance may affect lessees' ability to make rental and other lease payments and reduce the value we receive for the aircraft upon any disposition, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects. After a period of strong fleet growth, if the rate at which we add aircraft to our fleet decreases, we may be required to recognize deferred tax liabilities accumulated during the growth period, which could have a negative impact on our cash flow. It is typical in the aircraft leasing industry for companies that are continuously acquiring additional aircraft to incur significant tax depreciation, which offsets taxable income but creates a deferred tax liability on the aircraft leasing company's balance sheet. This deferred tax liability is attributable to the excess of the depreciation claimed for tax purposes over the depreciation claimed for financial statement purposes. If we are unable to continue to acquire additional aircraft at a sufficient pace, then we will begin to recognize some or all of our deferred tax liability, which could have a negative impact on our cash flow. A new standard for lease accounting is expected to be announced in the future, but we are unable to predict the impact of such a standard at this time. In August 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") and the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB") issued an Exposure Draft that proposes substantial changes to existing lease accounting that will affect all lease arrangements. Subsequent meetings of the joint committee of the FASB and the IASB have made further changes to the proposed lease accounting. Under the current proposed accounting model, lessees will be required to record an asset representing the right to use the leased item for the lease term (the "Right-of-Use Asset") and a liability to make lease payments. The Right-of-Use Asset and liability incorporate the rights arising under the lease and are based on the lessee's assessment of expected payments to be made over the lease term. The proposed model requires measuring these amounts at the present value of the future expected payments. Under the current proposed accounting model, lessors will apply the receivable and residual method. This will require a lessor to derecognize its flight equipment into a receivable based upon the present value of the lease payments under a lease and a residual value. Revenue recognized would be interest income based upon the effective interest rate explicit in the lease. The FASB and the IASB intend to issue a revised exposure draft during the first six months of 2012. The proposal does not include a proposed effective date; rather it is expected to be considered as part of the evaluation of the effective dates for the major projects currently undertaken by the FASB. The FASB and the IASB continue to deliberate on the proposed accounting. Currently, management is unable to assess the impact the adoption of the new finalized lease standard will have on our financial statements. Although we believe the presentation of our financial statements, and those of our lessees, could change, we do not believe the accounting pronouncement will change the fundamental economic reasons for which the airlines lease aircraft. 31 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock The price of our Class A Common Stock historically has been volatile. This volatility may adversely affect the price of our Class A Common Stock. The market price for our Class A Common Stock has varied between a high of $29.94 on May 20, 2011 and a low of $17.24 on October 4, 2011 since it began trading on the NYSE on April 19, 2011. This volatility may adversely affect the price of our Class A Common Stock. Our stock price is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to significant price and volume fluctuations in response to market and other factors, including: •announcements concerning our competitors, the airline industry or the economy in general; •announcements concerning the availability of the type of aircraft we own; •general and industry-specific economic conditions; •changes in the price of aircraft fuel; •changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts or failure to meet analysts' performance expectations; •additions or departures of key members of management; •any increased indebtedness we may incur in the future; •speculation or reports by the press or investment community with respect to us or our industry in general; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; •changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations affecting the airline industry or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; and •general market, political and economic conditions, including any such conditions and local conditions in the markets in which our lessees are located. These broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our Class A Common Stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. The stock market in general has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, including periods of sharp decline, as in late 2008, early 2009 and in August of 2011. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. Provisions in Delaware law and our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may inhibit a takeover of us, which could cause the market price of our Class A Common Stock to decline and could entrench management. Our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests, including the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock, a prohibition on our stockholders from calling special meetings of the stockholders, and advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which we have not opted out of, prohibits a public Delaware corporation from engaging in certain business combinations with an "interested stockholder" (as defined in such section) for a period of three years following the time that such 32 Table of Contents stockholder became an interested stockholder without the prior consent of our board of directors. The effect of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, as well as these charter and bylaws provisions, may make the removal of management more difficult. It may also impede a merger, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our Class A Common Stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our Class A Common Stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 