Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, you should consider carefully the following information before making an investment in our securities. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, our NAV and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Structure We have a limited operating history and may not be able to achieve our investment objective or generate sufficient revenue to make or sustain distributions to our stockholders and your investment in us could decline substantially. We commenced operations in March 2008 and became a public company on October 28, 2010. As a result of our limited operating history, we are subject to certain business risks and uncertainties associated with any recently formed business enterprise, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objective and that the value of your investment in us could decline substantially. As a public company, we are subject to the regulatory requirements of the SEC, in addition to the specific regulatory requirements applicable to BDCs under the 1940 Act and RICs under the Code. Our management and our Advisor have limited experience operating under this regulatory framework, and we may incur substantial additional costs, and expend significant time or other resources, to do so. From time to time our Advisor may pursue investment opportunities, like equity investments, in which our Advisor has more limited experience. In addition, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue from our operations to make or sustain distributions to our stockholders. We and our Advisor have limited experience operating under the constraints imposed on a BDC or managing an investment company, which may affect our ability to manage our business and impair your ability to assess our prospects. Prior to becoming a public company in October 2010, we did not operate as a BDC or manage an investment company under the 1940 Act. As a result, we have limited operating results under this regulatory framework that can demonstrate to you either its effect on our business or our ability to manage our business within this framework. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of BDCs. For example, BDCs are required to invest at least 70% of their total assets in specified types of securities, primarily securities of “eligible portfolio companies” (as defined in the 1940 Act), cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. See “Regulation” in Item 1 above. Our Advisor’s lack of experience in managing a portfolio of assets under these constraints may hinder our ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and, as a result, could impair our ability to achieve our investment objective. Furthermore, if we are unable to comply with the requirements imposed on BDCs by the 1940 Act, the SEC could bring an enforcement action against us and/or we could be exposed to claims of private litigants. In addition, we could be regulated as a closed-end management investment company under the 1940 Act, which could further decrease our operating flexibility and may prevent us from operating our business, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 24 We are dependent upon key personnel of our Advisor and our Advisor’s ability to hire and retain qualified personnel. We depend on the members of our Advisor’s senior management, particularly Mr. Pomeroy, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Michaud, our President, as well as other key personnel for the identification, evaluation, final selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of our investments. These employees have critical industry experience and relationships that we rely on to implement our business plan to originate Venture Loans in our Target Industries. Our future success depends on the continued service of Mr. Pomeroy and Mr. Michaud as well as the other senior members of our Advisor’s management team. If our Advisor were to lose the services of either Mr. Pomeroy or Mr. Michaud or any of the other senior members of our Advisor’s management team, we may not be able to operate our business as we expect, and our ability to compete could be harmed, either of which could cause our business, results of operations or financial condition to suffer. In addition, if more than one of Mr. Pomeroy, Mr. Michaud or Mr. Mathieu, our Chief Financial Officer, cease to be actively involved in the Company or our Advisor, and are not replaced by individuals satisfactory to Wells Fargo Capital Finance, LLC (“Wells”) within ninety days, Wells could, absent a waiver or cure, demand repayment of any outstanding obligations under the Wells Facility. If both Mr. Pomeroy and Mr. Michaud cease to be employed by us, and they are not replaced by individuals satisfactory to Fortress Credit Co LLC (“Fortress”) within ninety days, then Fortress could, absent a waiver or cure, demand repayment of any outstanding obligations under the Fortress Facility. Our future success also depends, in part, on our Advisor’s ability to identify, attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled employees. Absent exemptive or other relief granted by the SEC and for so long as we remain externally managed, the 1940 Act prevents us from granting options to our employees and adopting a profit sharing plan, which may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain highly skilled employees. If we are not successful in identifying, attracting and retaining these employees, we may not be able to operate our business as we expect. Moreover, we cannot assure you that our Advisor will remain our investment advisor or that we will continue to have access to our Advisor’s investment professionals or its relationships. For example, our Advisor may in the future manage investment funds with investment objectives similar to ours thereby diverting the time and attention of its investment professionals that we rely on to implement our business plan. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities, and if we are not able to compete effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected and the value of your investment in us could decline. We compete for investments with a number of investment funds and other BDCs, as well as traditional financial services companies such as commercial banks and other financing sources. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. This may enable these competitors to make commercial loans with interest rates that are comparable to, or lower than, the rates we typically offer. We may lose prospective portfolio companies if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. If we do match our competitors’ pricing, terms or structure, we may experience decreased net interest income and increased risk of credit losses. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments, establish more relationships than us and build their market shares. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC or that the Code imposes on us as a RIC. If we are not able to compete effectively, we may not be able to identify and take advantage of attractive investment opportunities that we identify and may not be able to fully invest our available capital. If this occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We borrow money, which magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing in us. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique, and we intend to continue to borrow money as part of our business plan. The use of leverage magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and, therefore, increases the risks associated with investing in us. We borrow from and issue senior debt securities to banks and other lenders. Such senior debt securities include those under the Credit Facilities. See “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Lenders of senior debt securities have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders. If the value of our assets increases, then leveraging would cause the NAV attributable to our common stock to increase more sharply than it would have had we not leveraged. However, any decrease in our income would cause net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not leveraged. This decline could adversely affect our ability to make common stock dividend payments. In addition, because our investments may be illiquid, we may be unable to dispose of them or unable to do so at a favorable price in the event we need to do so, if we are unable to refinance any indebtedness upon maturity, and, as a result, we may suffer losses. Our ability to service any debt that we incur depends largely on our financial performance and is subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. Moreover, as our Advisor’s management fee is payable to our Advisor based on our gross assets, including those assets acquired through the use of leverage, our Advisor may have a financial incentive to incur leverage which may not be consistent with our stockholders’ interests. In addition, holders of our common stock bear the burden of any increase in our expenses, as a result of leverage, including any increase in the management fee payable to our Advisor. 25 Illustration: The following table illustrates the effect of leverage on returns from an investment in our common stock assuming various annual returns, net of expenses. The calculations in the table below are hypothetical and actual returns may be higher or lower than those appearing in the table below: Assumed Return on Our Portfolio (Net of Expenses) -10% -5% 0% 5% 10% Corresponding return to stockholder(1) -20.62% -12.34% -4.06% 4.21% 12.49% (1) Assumes $240 million in total assets, $89 million in outstanding debt, $145 million in net assets, and an average cost of borrowed funds of 6.62% at December 31, 2012. Actual interest payments may be different. Based on our outstanding indebtedness of $89 million as of December 31, 2012 and the average cost of borrowed funds of 6.62% as of that date, our investment portfolio would have been required to experience an annual return of at least 2.54% to cover annual interest payments on the outstanding debt. If we are unable to comply with the covenants or restrictions in our Credit Facilities, make payments when due thereunder or make payments pursuant to our Senior Notes, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our Credit Facilities are secured by a lien on the assets of our wholly owned subsidiaries, Horizon Credit II LLC (“Credit II”) and Horizon Credit III LLC (“Credit III”), which hold substantially all of our assets. The breach of certain of the covenants or restrictions or our failure to make payments when due under the Credit Facilities, unless cured within the applicable grace period, would result in a default under the Credit Facilities that would permit the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding to be due and payable. In such an event, we may not have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness and the lenders may exercise rights available to them, including, without limitation, to the extent permitted under applicable law, the seizure of such assets without adjudication. The Credit Facilities include covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of Credit II and Credit III to (i) make loans to, or investments in, third parties (other than Venture Loans and warrants or other equity participation rights), (ii) pay dividends and distributions, (iii) incur additional indebtedness, (iv) engage in mergers or consolidations, (v) create liens on the collateral securing the Credit Facilities, (vi) permit additional negative pledges on such collateral, (vii) change the business currently conducted by them, and (viii) have a change of control. The Credit Facilities also require Credit II, Credit III and our Advisor to comply with various financial covenants, including, among other covenants, maintenance by our Advisor of a minimum tangible net worth and limitations on the value of, and modifications to, the loan collateral that secures the Credit Facilities. Complying with these restrictions may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would help us to grow our business or are otherwise consistent with our investment objective. These restrictions could also limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise restrict corporate activities, and could result in our failing to qualify as a RIC resulting in our becoming subject to corporate-level income tax. See “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional information regarding our credit arrangements. An event of default or acceleration under the Credit Facilities could also cause a cross-default or cross-acceleration of another debt instrument or contractual obligation, which would adversely impact our liquidity. We may not be granted waivers or amendments to the Credit Facilities or Senior Notes if for any reason we are unable to comply with it, and we may not be able to refinance the Credit Facilities on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our Senior Notes are unsecured and therefore are effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness we have currently incurred or may incur in the future. Our Senior Notes are not secured by any of our assets or any of the assets of our subsidiaries. As a result, the Senior Notes arc effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness we or our subsidiaries have currently incurred and may incur in the future (or any indebtedness that is initially unsecured to which we subsequently grant security) to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. In any liquidation, dissolution, bankruptcy or other similar proceeding, the holders of any of our existing or future secured indebtedness and the secured indebtedness of our subsidiaries may assert rights against the assets pledged to secure that indebtedness in order to receive full payment of their indebtedness before the assets may be used to pay other creditors, including the holders of the Senior Notes. As of December 31, 2012, we had $46.0 million of outstanding borrowings under our Wells Facility, and $10.0 million of outstanding borrowings under our Fortress Facility. 26 Our Senior Notes are structurally subordinated to the indebtedness and other liabilities of our subsidiaries. Our Senior Notes are obligations exclusively of Horizon Technology Finance Corporation, and not of any of our subsidiaries. None of our subsidiaries is a guarantor of the Senior Notes and the Senior Notes are not required to be guaranteed by any subsidiaries we may acquire or create in the future. The assets of such subsidiaries are not directly available to satisfy the claims of our creditors, including holders of the Senior Notes. Except to the extent we are a creditor with recognized claims against our subsidiaries, all claims of creditors (including trade creditors) and holders of preferred stock, if any, of our subsidiaries have priority over our equity interests in such subsidiaries (and therefore the claims of our creditors, including holders of the Senior Notes) with respect to the assets of such subsidiaries. Even if we are recognized as a creditor of one or more of our subsidiaries, our claims are effectively subordinated to any security interests in the assets of any such subsidiary and to any indebtedness or other liabilities of any such subsidiary senior to our claims. Consequently, the Senior Notes are structurally subordinated to all indebtedness and other liabilities (including trade payables) of any of our subsidiaries and any subsidiaries that we may in the future acquire or establish as financing vehicles or otherwise. As of December 31, 2012, we had $46.0 million of outstanding borrowings under our Wells Facility, and $10.0 million of outstanding borrowings under our Fortress Facility. In addition, our subsidiaries may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, all of which would be structurally senior to the Senior Notes. The indenture under which our Senior Notes are issued contains limited protection for holders of our Senior Notes. The indenture under which the Senior Notes are issued offers limited protection to holders of the Senior Notes. The terms of the indenture and the Senior Notes do not restrict our or any of our subsidiaries' ability to engage in, or otherwise be a party to, a variety of corporate transactions, circumstances or events that could have a material adverse impact on investments in the Senior Notes. In particular, the terms of the indenture and the Senior Notes do not place any restrictions on our or our subsidiaries' ability to: ·issue securities or otherwise incur additional indebtedness or other obligations, including (1) any indebtedness or other obligations that would be equal in right of payment to the Senior Notes, (2) any indebtedness or other obligations that would be secured and therefore rank effectively senior in right of payment to the Senior Notes to the extent of the values of the assets securing such debt, (3) indebtedness of ours that is guaranteed by one or more of our subsidiaries and which therefore is structurally senior to the Senior Notes and (4) securities, indebtedness or obligations issued or incurred by our subsidiaries that would be senior to our equity interests in our subsidiaries and therefore rank structurally senior to the Senior Notes with respect to the assets of our subsidiaries, in each case other than an incurrence of indebtedness or other obligation that would cause a violation of Section 18(a)(l )(A) as modified by Section 61 (a)(l) of the 1940 Act or any successor provisions, whether or not we continue to be subject to such provisions of the 1940 Act, but giving effect, in either case, to any exemptive relief granted to us by the SEC (these provisions generally prohibit us from making additional borrowings, including through the issuance of additional debt or the sale of additional debt securities, unless our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after such borrowings); ·pay dividends on, or purchase or redeem or make any payments in respect of capital stock or other securities ranking junior in right of payment to the Senior Notes, including subordinated indebtedness, in each case other than dividends, purchases, redemptions or payments that would cause a violation of Section 18(a)( I )(13) as modified by Section 61 (a)(l) of the 1940 Act or any successor provisions giving effect to any exemptive relief granted to us by the SEC (these provisions generally prohibit us from declaring any cash dividend or distribution upon any class of our capital stock, or purchasing any such capital stock unless our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% at the time of the declaration of the dividend or distribution or the purchase and after deducting the amount of such dividend, distribution or purchase); 27 ·sell assets (other than certain limited restrictions on our ability to consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets); ·enter into transactions with affiliates; ·create liens (including liens on the shares of our subsidiaries) or enter into sale and leaseback transactions; ·make investments; or ·create restrictions on the payment of dividends or other amounts to us from our subsidiaries. In addition, the indenture does not require us to offer to purchase the Senior Notes in connection with a change of control or any other event. Furthermore, the terms of the indenture and the Senior Notes do not protect holders of the Senior Notes in the event that we experience changes (including significant adverse changes) in our financial condition, results of operations or credit ratings, as they do not require that we or our subsidiaries adhere to any financial tests or ratios or specified levels of net worth, revenues, income, cash flow, or liquidity. Our ability to recapitalize, incur additional debt and take a number of other actions that are not limited by the terms of the Senior Notes may have important consequences for holders of the Senior Notes, including making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the Senior Notes or negatively affecting the trading value of the Senior Notes. Certain of our current debt instruments include more protections for their holders than the indenture and the Senior Notes. In addition, other debt we issue or incur in the future could contain more protections for its holders than the indenture and the Senior Notes, including additional covenants and events of default. The issuance or incurrence of any such debt with incremental protections could affect the market for and trading levels and prices of the Senior Notes. An active trading market for our Senior Notes may not exist, which could limit your ability to sell our Senior Notes or affect the market price of the Senior Note. The Senior Notes are listed on the NYSE under the symbol “HTF”. However, we cannot provide any assurances that an active trading market tor the Senior Notes will exist in the future or that you will be able to sell your Senior Notes. Even if an active trading market does exist, the Senior Notes may trade at a discount from their initial offering price depending on prevailing interest rates, the market for similar securities, our credit ratings, if any, general economic conditions, our financial condition, performance and prospects and other factors. To the extent an active trading market does not exist, the liquidity and trading price for the Senior Notes may be harmed. Accordingly, you may be required to bear the financial risk of an investment in the Senior Notes for an indefinite period of time. 28 If we default on our obligations to pay our other indebtedness, we may not be able to make payments on our Senior Notes. Any default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, including a default under the Wells Facility, and the Fortress Facility, or other indebtedness to which we may be a party that is not waived by the required lenders or holders, and the remedies sought by the holders of such indebtedness could make us unable to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on the Senior Notes and substantially decrease the market value of the Senior Notes. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants, in the instruments governing our indebtedness, we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under the Wells Facility, and the Fortress Facility or other debt we may incur in the future could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to seek to obtain waivers from the required lenders under the Wells Facility, the Fortress Facility, the Senior Notes or other debt that we may incur in the future to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under the Wells Facility, the Fortress Facility, the Senior Notes or other debt and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders or holders. If this occurs, we would be in default and our lenders or debt holders could exercise their rights as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If we are unable to repay debt, lenders having secured obligations, including the lenders under the Wells Facility and the Fortress Facility, could proceed against the collateral securing the debt. Because the Wells Facility and the Fortress Facility have, and any future credit facilities will likely have, customary cross-default provisions, if the indebtedness thereunder or under any future credit facility is accelerated, we may be unable to repay or finance the amounts due. The impact of recent financial reform legislation on us is uncertain. In light of current conditions in the U.S. and global financial markets and the U.S. and global economy, legislators, the presidential administration and regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act institutes a wide range of reforms that will have an impact on all financial institutions. Many of these provisions are subject to rule making procedures and studies that will be conducted in the future. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect it or its implementing regulations will have on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Because we distribute all or substantially all of our income and any realized net short-term capital gains over realized net long-term capital losses to our stockholders, we will need additional capital to finance our growth, if any. If additional funds are unavailable or not available on favorable terms, our ability to grow will be impaired. To satisfy the requirements applicable to a RIC, to avoid payment of excise taxes and to minimize or to avoid payment of corporate-level federal income taxes, we intend to distribute to our stockholders all or substantially all of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains over realized net long-term capital losses except that we may retain certain net long-term capital gains, pay applicable income taxes with respect thereto, and elect to treat such retained capital gains as deemed distributions to our stockholders. As a BDC, we generally are required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total senior securities, which includes all of our borrowings and any preferred stock we may issue in the future, of at least 200%. This requirement limits the amount that we may borrow. Because we continue to need capital to grow our loan and investment portfolio, this limitation may prevent us from incurring debt and require us to raise additional equity at a time when it may be disadvantageous to do so. We cannot assure you that debt and equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, and debt financings may be restricted by the terms of any of our outstanding borrowings. In addition, as a BDC, we are limited in our ability to issue equity securities priced below NAV. If additional funds are not available to us, we could be forced to curtail or cease new lending and investment activities, and our NAV could decline. If we are unable to obtain additional debt financing, our business could be materially adversely affected. We may want to obtain additional debt financing, or need to do so upon maturity of the Credit Facilities or Senior Notes, in order to obtain funds which may be made available for investments. We may borrow under the Wells Facility until July 14, 2014, and, after such date, we must repay the outstanding advances under the Wells Facility in accordance with its terms and conditions. All outstanding advances under the Wells Facility are due and payable on July 14, 2017, unless such date is extended in accordance with its terms. We may borrow under the Fortress Facility until August 23, 2016, and, after such date, we must repay the outstanding advances under the Fortress Facility in accordance with its terms and conditions. All outstanding advances under the Fortress Facility are due and payable on August 23, 2017 unless such date is extended in accordance with its terms. All outstanding amounts on our Senior Notes are due and payable on March 15, 2019 unless redeemed prior to that date. If we are unable to increase, renew or replace any such facility and enter into a new debt financing facility on commercially reasonable terms, our liquidity may be reduced significantly. In addition, if we are unable to repay amounts outstanding under any such facilities and are declared in default or are unable to renew or refinance these facilities, we may not be able to make new investments or operate our business in the normal course. These situations may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as lack of access to the credit markets, a severe decline in the value of the U.S. dollar, a further economic downturn or an operational problem that affects third parties or us, and could materially damage our business. Moreover, we have withdrawn our application to the Small Business Administration (”SBA”) for a license to operate as a small business investment company (“SBIC”), which was originally filed on December 6, 2010, and, though we may in the future submit a new application, we have no present intention to do so and, therefore, do not expect to be able to borrow money by issuing SBA-guaranteed debentures. 29 Changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital and net investment income. Because we currently incur indebtedness to fund our investments, a portion of our income depends upon the difference between the interest rate at which we borrow funds and the interest rate at which we invest these funds. Most of our investments have fixed interest rates, while our Credit Facilities have floating interest rates. As a result, a significant change in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our net investment income. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds could increase, which would reduce our net investment income. We may hedge against interest rate fluctuations by using hedging instruments such as swaps, futures, options and forward contracts, subject to applicable legal requirements, including, without limitation, all necessary registrations (or exemptions from registration) with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. These activities may limit our ability to benefit from lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions or any adverse developments from our use of hedging instruments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be unable to enter into appropriate hedging transactions when desired and any hedging transactions we enter into may not be effective. Because many of our investments typically are not and will not be in publicly traded securities, the value of our investments may not be readily determinable, which could adversely affect the determination of our NAV. Our investments consist, and we expect our future investments to consist, primarily of loans or securities issued by privately held companies. The fair value of these investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. In addition, we are not permitted to maintain a general reserve for anticipated loan losses. Instead, we are required by the 1940 Act to specifically value each investment and record an unrealized gain or loss for any asset that we believe has increased or decreased in value. We value these investments on a quarterly basis, or more frequently as circumstances require, in accordance with our valuation policy consistent with generally accepted accounting principles. Our Board employs an independent third-party valuation firm to assist them in arriving at the fair value of our investments. Our Board discusses valuations and determines the fair value in good faith based on the input of our Advisor and the third-party valuation firm. The factors that may be considered in fair value pricing our investments include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s earnings and its ability to make payments on its indebtedness, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparisons to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would be assessed if a ready market for these securities existed. Our NAV could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments are materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of these investments. Disruption in the capital markets and the credit markets could adversely affect our business. Without sufficient access to the capital markets or credit markets, we may be forced to curtail our business operations or we may not be able to pursue new investment opportunities. The global capital markets are in a period of disruption and extreme volatility and, accordingly, there has been and will continue to be uncertainty in the financial markets in general. A prolonged period of market illiquidity or uncertainty regarding U.S. government spending levels, including negotiation of federal spending cuts, and implementation of global fiscal austerity measures may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Unfavorable economic conditions, including future recessions, also could affect our investment valuations, increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us or our portfolio companies. These events could limit our investment originations, limit our ability to grow and negatively impact our operating results. 30 We are unable to predict when economic and market conditions may become more favorable. Even if these conditions improve significantly over the long term, adverse conditions in particular sectors of the financial markets could adversely impact our business. We may not realize gains from our equity investments. We may make non-control, equity co-investments in companies in conjunction with private equity sponsors. The equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. We also may be unable to realize any value if a portfolio company does not have a liquidity event, such as a sale of the business, refinancing or public offering, which would allow us to sell the underlying equity interests. In addition, our Advisor’s significant experience in Venture Lending may not result in returns on our equity investments. From time to time we may also acquire equity participation rights in connection with an investment which will allow us, at our option, to participate in future rounds of equity financing through direct capital investments in our portfolio companies. Our Advisor determines whether to exercise any of these rights. Accordingly, you will have no control over whether or to what extent these rights are exercised, if at all. If we exercise these rights, we will be making an additional investment completely in the form of equity which will subject us to significantly more risk than our Venture Loans and we may not receive the returns that are anticipated with respect to these investments. We may not realize expected returns on warrants received in connection with our debt investments. As discussed above, we generally receive warrants in connection with our debt investments. If we do not receive the returns that are anticipated on the warrants, our investment returns on our portfolio companies, and the value of your investment in us, may be lower than expected. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect our ability to, and the way in which, we raise additional capital, which may expose us to additional risks. Our business plans contemplate a need for a substantial amount of capital in addition to our current amount of capital. We may obtain additional capital through the issuance of debt securities or preferred stock, and we may borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. If we issue senior securities, we would be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss. In addition, if we issue preferred stock, it would rank senior to common stock in our capital structure and preferred stockholders would have separate voting rights and may have rights, preferences or privileges more favorable than those of holders of our common stock. The 1940 Act permits us to issue senior securities in amounts such that our asset coverage ratio, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. If our asset coverage ratio is not at least 200%, we are not permitted to pay dividends or issue additional senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this asset coverage test. If that happens, we may be required to liquidate a portion of our investments and repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when we may be unable to do so or unable to do so on favorable terms. See Note 6 to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding borrowings. As a BDC, we generally are not able to issue our common stock at a price below NAV without first obtaining the approval of our stockholders and our independent directors, and we may seek such approval to sell our common stock below NAV in the future. This requirement does not apply to stock issued upon the exercise of options, warrants or rights that we may issue from time to time. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease, and you may experience dilution. If we are unable to satisfy the requirements under the Code for qualification as a RIC, we will be subject to corporate-level federal income tax. To qualify as a RIC under the Code, we must meet certain source-of-income, diversification and other requirements contained in Subchapter M of the Code and maintain our election to be regulated as a BDC under the 1940 Act. We must also meet the Annual Distribution Requirement to avoid corporate-level federal income tax in that year on all of our taxable income, regardless of whether we make any distributions to our stockholders. 31 The source-of-income requirement is satisfied if we derive in each taxable year at least 90% of our gross income from dividends, interest (including tax-exempt interest), payments with respect to certain securities loans, gains from the sale or other disposition of stock, securities or foreign currencies, other income (including but not limited to gain from options, futures or forward contracts) derived with respect to our business of investing in stock, securities or currencies, or net income derived from an interest in a “qualified publicly traded partnership.” The status of certain forms of income we receive could be subject to different interpretations under the Code and might be characterized as non-qualifying income that could cause us to fail to qualify as a RIC, assuming we do not qualify for or take advantage of certain remedial provisions, and, thus, may cause us to be subject to corporate-level federal income taxes. The Annual Distribution Requirement for a RIC is satisfied if we distribute to our stockholders on an annual basis an amount equal to at least 90% of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any. If we borrow money, we may be subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and loan covenants that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to qualify as a RIC. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify as a RIC, assuming we do not qualify for or take advantage of certain remedial provisions, and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level income tax. To qualify as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to (1) dispose of certain investments quickly; (2) raise additional capital to prevent the loss of RIC status; or (3) engage in certain remedial actions that may entail the disposition of certain investments at disadvantageous prices that could result in substantial losses, and the payment of penalties, if we qualify to take such actions. Because most of our investments are and will be in development-stage companies within our Target Industries, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses. If we raise additional capital to satisfy the asset diversification requirements, it could take a longer time to invest such capital. During this period, we will invest in temporary investments, such as money market funds, which we expect will earn yields substantially lower than the interest income that we anticipate receiving in respect of our investments in secured and amortizing loans. If we were to fail to qualify for the federal income tax benefits allowable to RICs for any reason and become subject to a corporate-level federal income tax, the resulting taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution to our stockholders, and the actual amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us, the NAV of our common stock and the total return, if any, obtainable from your investment in our common stock. In addition, we could be required to recognize unrealized gains, pay substantial taxes and interest and make substantial distributions before requalifying as a RIC. See “Regulation.” We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize taxable income before or without receiving cash. We may be required to recognize taxable income in circumstances in which we do not receive cash. For example, if we hold debt instruments that are treated under applicable tax rules as having original issue discount (such as debt instruments with payment-in-kind interest or, in certain cases, increasing interest rates or issued with warrants), we must include in taxable income each year a portion of the original issue discount that accrues over the life of the debt instrument, regardless of whether cash representing such income is received by us in the same taxable year. We do not have a policy limiting our ability to invest in original issue discount instruments, including payment-in-kind loans. Because in certain cases we may recognize taxable income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the requirement that we distribute an amount equal to at least 90% of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized long-term capital losses, if any. 32 Accordingly, we may need to sell some of our assets at times that we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or forego new investment opportunities or otherwise take actions that are disadvantageous to our business (or be unable to take actions that we believe are necessary or advantageous to our business) in order to satisfy the Annual Distribution Requirement. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources to satisfy the Annual Distribution Requirement, we may fail to qualify for the federal income tax benefits allowable to RICs and, thus, become subject to a corporate-level federal income tax on all our income. The proportion of our income, consisting of net investment income and our realized gains and losses, that resulted from the portion of original issue discount not received in cash for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was 7.9%, 7.4% and 9.1%, respectively. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could fail to qualify as a BDC or be precluded from investing according to our current business strategy. As a BDC, we are prohibited from acquiring any assets other than qualifying assets unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. Substantially all of our assets are qualifying assets and we expect that substantially all of our assets that we may acquire in the future will be qualifying assets, although we may decide to make other investments that are not qualifying assets to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. If we acquire debt or equity securities from an issuer that has outstanding marginable securities at the time we make an investment, these acquired assets may not be treated as qualifying assets. This result is dictated by the definition of “eligible portfolio company” under the 1940 Act, which in part looks to whether a company has outstanding marginable securities. See Item 1 above, “Regulation — Qualifying Assets.” If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could lose our status as a BDC, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in laws or regulations governing our business could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the laws or regulations or the interpretations of the laws and regulations that govern BDC, RICs, or non-depository commercial lenders could significantly affect our operations, our cost of doing business and our investment strategy. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations and judicial and administrative decisions that affect our operations, including our loan originations, maximum interest rates, fees and other charges, disclosures to portfolio companies, the terms of secured transactions, collection and foreclosure procedures, portfolio composition and other trade practices. If these laws, regulations or decisions change, or if we expand our business into jurisdictions that have adopted more stringent requirements, we may incur significant expenses to comply with these laws, regulations or decisions or we might have to restrict our operations or alter our investment strategy. In addition, if we do not comply with applicable laws, regulations and decisions, we may lose licenses needed for the conduct of our business and be subject to civil fines and criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our Advisor has significant potential conflicts of interest with us and our stockholders. As a result of our arrangements with our Advisor, there may be times when our Advisor has interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a potential conflict of interest. Our executive officers and directors, as well as the current and future executives and employees of our Advisor, serve or may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do. Accordingly, they may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of our stockholders. In addition, our Advisor may manage other funds in the future that may have investment objectives that are similar, in whole or in part, to ours. Our Advisor may determine that an investment is appropriate for us and for one or more of those other funds. In such an event, depending on the availability of the investment and other appropriate factors, our Advisor will endeavor to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner and act in accordance with its written conflicts of interest policy to address and, if necessary, resolve any conflict of interests. It is also possible that we may not be given the opportunity to participate in these other investment opportunities. We pay management and incentive fees to our Advisor and reimburse our Advisor for certain expenses it incurs. As a result, investors in our common stock invest on a “gross” basis and receive distributions on a “net” basis after expenses, resulting in a lower rate of return than an investor might achieve through direct investments. Also, the incentive fee payable by us to our Advisor may create an incentive for our Advisor to pursue investments on our behalf that are riskier or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangements. 33 We have entered into a license agreement with Horizon Technology Finance, LLC, pursuant to which it has agreed to grant us a non-exclusive, royalty-free right and license to use the service mark “Horizon Technology Finance.” Under this agreement, we have a right to use the “Horizon Technology Finance” service mark for so long as the Investment Management Agreement is in effect between us and our Advisor. In addition, we pay our Advisor, our allocable portion of overhead and other expenses incurred by our Advisor in performing its obligations under the Administration Agreement, including rent, the fees and expenses associated with performing compliance functions, and our allocable portion of the compensation of our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Compliance Officer and their respective staffs. Any potential conflict of interest arising as a result of our arrangements with our Advisor could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our incentive fee may impact our Advisor’s structuring of our investments, including by causing our Advisor to pursue speculative investments. The incentive fee payable by us to our Advisor may create an incentive for our Advisor to pursue investments on our behalf that are riskier or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The incentive fee payable to our Advisor is calculated based on a percentage of our return on invested capital. This may encourage our Advisor to use leverage to increase the return on our investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would impair the value of our common stock. In addition, our Advisor receives the incentive fee based, in part, upon net capital gains realized on our investments. Unlike that portion of the incentive fee based on income, there is no hurdle rate applicable to the portion of the incentive fee based on net capital gains. As a result, our Advisor may have a tendency to invest more capital in investments that are likely to result in capital gains as compared to income-producing securities. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative investments than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns. In addition, the incentive fee may encourage our Advisor to pursue different types of investments or structure investments in ways that are more likely to result in warrant gains or gains on equity investments, including upon exercise of equity participation rights, which are inconsistent with our investment strategy and disciplined underwriting process. The incentive fee payable by us to our Advisor may also induce our Advisor to pursue investments on our behalf that have a deferred interest feature, even if such deferred payments would not provide cash necessary to enable us to pay current distributions to our stockholders. Under these investments, we would accrue interest over the life of the investment but would not receive the cash income from the investment until the end of the term. Our net investment income used to calculate the income portion of our investment fee, however, includes accrued interest. Thus, a portion of this incentive fee would be based on income that we have not yet received in cash. In addition, the “catch-up” portion of the incentive fee may encourage our Advisor to accelerate or defer interest payable by portfolio companies from one calendar quarter to another, potentially resulting in fluctuations in the timing and amounts of dividends. Our governing documents do not limit the number of loans we may make with deferred interest features or the proportion of our income we derive from such loans. Our Advisor’s liability is limited, and we have agreed to indemnify our Advisor against certain liabilities, which may lead our Advisor to act in a riskier manner on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. Under the Investment Management Agreement, our Advisor does not assume any responsibility to us other than to render the services called for under that agreement, and it is not responsible for any action of our Board in following or declining to follow our Advisor’s advice or recommendations. Under the terms of the Investment Management Agreement, our Advisor, its officers, members, personnel and any person controlling or controlled by our Advisor is not liable to us, any subsidiary of ours, our directors, our stockholders or any subsidiary’s stockholders or partners for acts or omissions performed in accordance with and pursuant to the Investment Management Agreement, except those resulting from acts constituting gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of our Advisor’s duties under the Investment Management Agreement. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify our Advisor and each of its officers, directors, members, managers and employees from and against any claims or liabilities, including reasonable legal fees and other expenses reasonably incurred, arising out of or in connection with our business and operations or any action taken or omitted on our behalf pursuant to authority granted by the Investment Management Agreement, except where attributable to gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of such person’s duties under the Investment Management Agreement. These protections may lead our Advisor to act in a riskier manner when acting on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. 34 If we are unable to manage our future growth effectively, we may be unable to achieve our investment objective, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and cause the value of your investment in us to decline. Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on our ability to achieve and sustain growth, which depends, in turn, on our Advisor’s direct origination capabilities and disciplined underwriting process in identifying, evaluating, financing, investing in and monitoring suitable companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our Advisor’s marketing capabilities, management of the investment process, ability to provide efficient services and access to financing sources on acceptable terms. In addition to monitoring the performance of our existing investments, our Advisor may also be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. These demands on their time may distract them or slow the rate of investment. If we fail to manage our future growth effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected and the value of your investment in us could decrease. Our Board may change our operating policies and strategies, including our investment objective, without prior notice or stockholder approval, the effects of which may adversely affect our business. Our Board may modify or waive our current operating policies and strategies, including our investment objectives, without prior notice and without stockholder approval (provided that no such modification or waiver may change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or withdraw our election as a BDC as provided by the 1940 Act without stockholder approval at a special meeting called upon written notice of not less than ten or more than sixty days before the date of such meeting). We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, results of operations or financial condition or on the value of our stock. However, the effects of any changes might adversely affect our business, any or all of which could negatively impact our ability to pay dividends or cause you to lose all or part of your investment in us. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate due to the nature of our business. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: our ability to make investments in companies that meet our investment criteria, the interest rate payable on our loans, the default rate on these investments, the level of our expenses, variations in, and the timing of, the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. For example, we have historically experienced greater investment activity during the second and fourth quarters relative to other periods. As a result of these factors, you should not rely on the results for any prior period as being indicative of our performance in future periods. Our business plan and growth strategy depends to a significant extent upon our Advisor’s referral relationships. If our Advisor is unable to develop new or maintain existing relationships, or if these relationships fail to generate investment opportunities, our business could be materially adversely affected. We have historically depended on our Advisor’s referral relationships to generate investment opportunities. For us to achieve our future business objectives, members of our Advisor need to maintain these relationships with venture capital and private equity firms and management teams and legal firms, accounting firms, investment banks and other lenders, and we rely to a significant extent upon these relationships to provide us with investment opportunities. If they fail to maintain their existing relationships or develop new relationships with other firms or sources of investment opportunities, we may not be able to grow our investment portfolio. In addition, persons with whom our Advisor has relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and, therefore, there is no assurance that such relationships will lead to the origination of debt or other investments. 35 Our Advisor can resign on 60 days’ notice and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Under our Investment Management Agreement, our Advisor has the right to resign at any time, including during the first two years following the Investment Management Agreement’s effective date, upon not more than 60 days’ written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If our Advisor resigns, we may not be able to find a new investment advisor or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so, our operations are likely to be disrupted, our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay distributions may be adversely affected and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and investment activities is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by our Advisor and its affiliates. Even if we are able to retain comparable management, whether internal or external, the integration of new management and their lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted. As a BDC, we are prohibited under the 1940 Act from participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding voting securities is considered our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act. We are generally prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to an affiliate, absent the prior approval of our independent directors. The 1940 Act also prohibits certain “joint” transactions with an affiliate, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of our independent directors. If a person acquires more than 25% of our voting securities, we are prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to that person or certain of that person’s affiliates, or entering into prohibited joint transactions with those persons, absent the prior approval of the SEC. Similar restrictions limit our ability to transact business with our officers or directors or their affiliates. These restrictions could limit or prohibit us from making certain attractive investments that we might otherwise make absent such restrictions. While we have no current intention to enter into any principal transactions or joint arrangements with any affiliates, we have considered and evaluated, and will continue to consider and evaluate, the potential advantages and disadvantages of doing so. If we decide to enter into any such transactions in the future we will not do so until we have requested and received the requisite exemptive relief under Section 57 of the 1940 Act, the filing of which our Board has previously authorized. We incur significant costs as a result of being a publicly traded company. As a publicly traded company, we incur legal, accounting and other expenses, including costs associated with the periodic reporting requirements applicable to a company whose securities are registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as well as additional corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and other rules implemented by the SEC. Efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us and the market price of our common stock. Under current SEC rules, we are required to report on our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules and regulations of the SEC. As a result, we incur additional expenses that may negatively impact our financial performance and our ability to make distributions. This process also results in a diversion of management’s time and attention. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations, and we may not be able to ensure that the process is effective or that our internal control over financial reporting is or will be effective in a timely manner. In the event that we are unable to maintain or achieve compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, we and the market price of our securities may be adversely affected. 36 Terrorist attacks and other catastrophic events may disrupt the businesses in which we invest and harm our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity or acts of war may significantly harm our results of operations and your investment. We cannot assure you that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States or United States businesses. Such attacks or armed conflicts in the United States or elsewhere may impact the businesses in which we invest directly or indirectly, by undermining economic conditions in the United States or elsewhere. In addition, because many of our portfolio companies operate and rely on network infrastructure and enterprise applications and internal technology systems for development, marketing, operational, support and other business activities, a disruption or failure of any or all of these systems in the event of a major telecommunications failure, cyber-attack, fire, earthquake, severe weather conditions or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, delays in product development and loss of critical data and could otherwise disrupt their business operations. Losses resulting from terrorist attacks are generally uninsurable. Risks Related to Our Investments We have not yet identified many of the potential investment opportunities for our portfolio. We have not yet identified many of the potential investment opportunities for our portfolio. Our future investments will be selected by our Advisor, subject to the approval of its investment committee. Our stockholders do not have input into our Advisor’s investment decisions. As a result, our stockholders are unable to evaluate any of our future portfolio company investments. These factors increase the uncertainty, and thus the risk, of investing in our securities. We are a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, and therefore we generally are not limited with respect to the proportion of our assets that may be invested in securities of a single issuer. We are classified as a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, which means that we are not limited by the 1940 Act with respect to the proportion of our assets that we may invest in securities of a single issuer, excluding limitations on stake holdings in investment companies. To the extent that we assume large positions in the securities of a small number of issuers, our NAV may fluctuate to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company as a result of changes in the financial condition or the market’s assessment of the issuer. We may also be more susceptible to any single economic or regulatory occurrence than a diversified investment company. Beyond our income tax diversification requirements, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments could be concentrated in relatively few portfolio companies. If our investments do not meet our performance expectations, you may not receive distributions. We intend to make distributions of income on a monthly basis to our stockholders. We may not be able to achieve operating results that will allow us to make distributions at a specific level or increase the amount of these distributions from time to time. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a BDC, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. Also, restrictions and provisions in any existing or future credit facilities may limit our ability to make distributions. If we do not distribute a certain percentage of our income annually, we will suffer adverse tax consequences, including the possible loss of the federal income tax benefits allowable to RICs. Most of our portfolio companies will need additional capital, which may not be readily available. Our portfolio companies typically require substantial additional financing to satisfy their continuing working capital and other capital requirements and service the interest and principal payments on our investments. We cannot predict the circumstances or market conditions under which our portfolio companies will seek additional capital. Each round of institutional equity financing is typically intended to provide a company with only enough capital to reach the next stage of development. It is possible that one or more of our portfolio companies will not be able to raise additional financing or may be able to do so only at a price or on terms that are unfavorable to the portfolio company, either of which would negatively impact our investment returns. Some of these companies may be unable to obtain sufficient financing from private investors, public capital markets or lenders, thereby requiring these companies to cease or curtail business operations. Accordingly, investing in these types of companies generally entails a higher risk of loss than investing in companies that do not have significant incremental capital raising requirements. 37 Economic recessions or downturns could adversely affect our business and that of our portfolio companies which may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. General economic conditions may affect our activities and the operation and value of our portfolio companies. Economic slowdowns or recessions may result in a decrease of institutional equity investment, which would limit our lending opportunities. Furthermore, many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets are likely to increase and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during these periods. Adverse economic conditions may also decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions could also increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize the portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the loans that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to recover our investment upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. These events could harm our financial condition and operating results. Our investment strategy focuses on investments in development-stage companies in our Target Industries, which are subject to many risks, including volatility, intense competition, shortened product life cycles and periodic downturns, and would be rated below “investment grade.” We intend to invest, under normal circumstances, most of the value of our total assets (including the amount of any borrowings for investment purposes) in development-stage companies, which may have relatively limited operating histories, in our Target Industries. Many of these companies may have narrow product lines and small market shares, compared to larger established publicly owned firms, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. The revenues, income (or losses) and valuations of development-stage companies in our Target Industries can and often do fluctuate suddenly and dramatically. For these reasons, investments in our portfolio companies, if rated by one or more ratings agency, would typically be rated below “investment grade,” which refers to securities rated by ratings agencies below the four highest rating categories. These companies may also have more limited access to capital and higher funding costs. In addition, development-stage technology markets are generally characterized by abrupt business cycles and intense competition, and the competitive environment can change abruptly due to rapidly evolving technology. Therefore, our portfolio companies may face considerably more risk than companies in other industry sectors. Accordingly, these factors could impair their cash flow or result in other events, such as bankruptcy, which could limit their ability to repay their obligations to us and may materially adversely affect the return on, or the recovery of, our investments in these businesses. Because of rapid technological change, the average selling prices of products and some services provided by development-stage companies in our Target Industries have historically decreased over their productive lives. These decreases could adversely affect their operating results and cash flow, their ability to meet obligations under their debt securities and the value of their equity securities. This could, in turn, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any unrealized depreciation we experience on our loan portfolio may be an indication of future realized losses, which could reduce our income available for distribution. As a BDC, we are required to carry our investments at fair value which shall be the market value of our investments or, if no market value is ascertainable, at the fair value as determined in good faith pursuant to procedures approved by our Board in accordance with our valuation policy. We are not permitted to maintain a reserve for loan losses. Decreases in the fair values of our investments are recorded as unrealized depreciation. Any unrealized depreciation in our loan portfolio could be an indication of a portfolio company’s inability to meet its repayment obligations to us with respect to the affected loans. This could result in realized losses in the future and ultimately reduces our income available for distribution in future periods. 38 If the assets securing the loans we make decrease in value, we may not have sufficient collateral to cover losses and may experience losses upon foreclosure. We believe our portfolio companies generally are and will be able to repay our loans from their available capital, from future capital-raising transactions or from cash flow from operations. However, to mitigate our credit risks, we typically take a security interest in all or a portion of the assets of our portfolio companies, including the equity interests of their subsidiaries. There is a risk that the collateral securing our loans may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to appraise or sell in a timely manner and may fluctuate in value based upon the business and market conditions, including as a result of an inability of the portfolio company to raise additional capital, and, in some circumstances, our lien could be subordinated to claims of other creditors. In addition, deterioration of a portfolio company’s financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by deterioration of the value of the collateral for the loan. Consequently, although such loan is secured, we may not receive principal and interest payments according to the loan’s terms and the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to recover our investment should we be forced to enforce our remedies. In addition, because we invest in development-stage companies in our Target Industries, a substantial portion of the assets securing our investment may be in the form of intellectual property, if any, inventory, equipment, cash and accounts receivables. Intellectual property, if any, which secures a loan could lose value if the company’s rights to the intellectual property are challenged or if the company’s license to the intellectual property is revoked or expires. In addition, in lieu of a security interest in a portfolio company’s intellectual property we may sometimes obtain a security interest in all assets of the portfolio company other than intellectual property and also obtain a commitment by the portfolio company not to grant liens to any other creditor on the company’s intellectual property. In these cases, we may have additional difficulty recovering our principal in the event of a foreclosure. Similarly, any equipment securing our loan may not provide us with the anticipated security if there are changes in technology or advances in new equipment that render the particular equipment obsolete or of limited value or if the company fails to adequately maintain or repair the equipment. Any one or more of the preceding factors could materially impair our ability to recover principal in a foreclosure. We may choose to waive or defer enforcement of covenants in the debt securities held in our portfolio, which may cause us to lose all or part of our investment in these companies. We structure the debt investments in our portfolio companies to include business and financial covenants placing affirmative and negative obligations on the operation of the company’s business and its financial condition. However, from time to time we may elect to waive breaches of these covenants, including our right to payment, or waive or defer enforcement of remedies, such as acceleration of obligations or foreclosure on collateral, depending upon the financial condition and prospects of the particular portfolio company. These actions may reduce the likelihood of our receiving the full amount of future payments of interest or principal and be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of the underlying collateral as many of these companies may have limited financial resources, may be unable to meet future obligations and may go bankrupt. These events could harm our financial condition and operating results. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business, and if we need to sell any of our investments, we may not be able to do so at a favorable price. As a result, we may suffer losses. We plan to generally invest in loans with terms of up to four years and hold such investments until maturity, unless earlier prepaid, and we do not expect that our related holdings of equity securities will provide us with liquidity opportunities in the near-term. We expect to primarily invest in companies whose securities are not publicly-traded, and whose securities are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or are otherwise less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell these investments when desired. We may also face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a public portfolio company to the extent that we possess material non-public information regarding the portfolio company. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded these investments. As a result, we do not expect to dispose of our investments in the near term. However, we may be required to do so in order to maintain our qualification as a BDC and as a RIC if we do not satisfy one or more of the applicable criteria under the respective regulatory frameworks. Because most of our investments are illiquid, we may be unable to dispose of them, in which case we could fail to qualify as a RIC and/or BDC, or we may not be able to dispose of them at favorable prices, and as a result, we may suffer losses. 39 Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We plan to invest primarily in loans issued by our portfolio companies. Some of our portfolio companies are permitted to have other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our loans in the portfolio company. By their terms, these debt instruments may provide that the holders thereof are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of our loans. These debt instruments may prohibit the portfolio companies from paying interest on or repaying our investments in the event of, and during, the continuance of a default under the debt instruments. In addition, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any payment in respect of our investment. After repaying senior creditors, a portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with our loans, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy. There may be circumstances where our loans could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims. Even though certain of our investments are structured as senior loans, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt investment and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. We may also be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by us with respect to a portfolio company’s business, including in rendering significant managerial assistance, or instances where we exercise control over the portfolio company. An investment strategy focused primarily on privately held companies presents certain challenges, including the lack of available information about these companies, a dependence on the talents and efforts of only a few key portfolio company personnel and a greater vulnerability to economic downturns. We currently invest, and plan to invest, primarily in privately held companies. Generally, very little public information exists about these companies, and we are required to rely on the ability of our Advisor to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. Also, privately held companies frequently have less diverse product lines and a smaller market presence than larger competitors. Thus, they are generally more vulnerable to economic downturns and may experience substantial variations in operating results. These factors could affect our investment returns. In addition, our success depends, in large part, upon the abilities of the key management personnel of our portfolio companies, who are responsible for the day-to-day operations of our portfolio companies. Competition for qualified personnel is intense at any stage of a company’s development. The loss of one or more key managers can hinder or delay a company’s implementation of its business plan and harm its financial condition. Our portfolio companies may not be able to attract and retain qualified managers and personnel. Any inability to do so may negatively affect our investment returns. Prepayments of our debt investments by our portfolio companies could adversely impact our results of operations and reduce our return on equity. We are subject to the risk that the investments we make in our portfolio companies may be repaid prior to maturity. For example, most of our debt investments have historically been repaid prior to maturity by our portfolio companies. At the time of a liquidity event, such as a sale of the business, refinancing or public offering, many of our portfolio companies have availed themselves of the opportunity to repay our loans prior to maturity. Our investments generally allow for repayment at any time subject to certain penalties. When this occurs, we generally reinvest these proceeds in temporary investments, pending their future investment in new portfolio companies. These temporary investments have substantially lower yields than the debt being prepaid, and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. Any future investment in a new portfolio company may also be at lower yields than the debt that was repaid. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our portfolio companies elects to prepay amounts owed to us. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact our return on equity, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. 40 Our business and growth strategy could be adversely affected if government regulations, priorities and resources impacting the industries in which our portfolio companies operate change. Some of our portfolio companies operate in industries that are highly regulated by federal, state and/or local agencies. Changes in existing laws, rules or regulations, or judicial or administrative interpretations thereof, or new laws, rules or regulations could have an adverse impact on the business and industries of our portfolio companies. In addition, changes in government priorities or limitations on government resources could also adversely impact our portfolio companies. We are unable to predict whether any such changes in laws, rules or regulations will occur and, if they do occur, the impact of these changes on our portfolio companies and our investment returns. Our portfolio companies operating in the life science industry are subject to extensive government regulation and certain other risks particular to that industry. As part of our investment strategy, we have invested, and plan to invest in the future, in companies in the life science industry that are subject to extensive regulation by the Food and Drug Administration and to a lesser extent, other federal and state agencies. If any of these portfolio companies fail to comply with applicable regulations, they could be subject to significant penalties and claims that could materially and adversely affect their operations. Portfolio companies that produce medical devices or drugs are subject to the expense, delay and uncertainty of the regulatory approval process for their products and, even if approved, these products may not be accepted in the marketplace. In addition, new laws, regulations or judicial interpretations of existing laws and regulations might adversely affect a portfolio company in this industry. Portfolio companies in the life science industry may also have a limited number of suppliers of necessary components or a limited number of manufacturers for their products, and therefore face a risk of disruption to their manufacturing process if they are unable to find alternative suppliers when needed. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect the operations of a portfolio company in this industry and, in turn, impair our ability to timely collect principal and interest payments owed to us. Our investments in the clean technology industry are subject to many risks, including volatility, intense competition, unproven technologies, periodic downturns and potential litigation. Our investments in clean technology, or cleantech, companies are subject to substantial operational risks, such as underestimated cost projections, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses, loss of government subsidies, and inability to deliver cost-effective alternative energy solutions compared to traditional energy products. In addition, energy companies employ a variety of means of increasing cash flow, including increasing utilization of existing facilities, expanding operations through new construction or acquisitions, or securing additional long-term contracts. Thus, some energy companies may be subject to construction risk, acquisition risk or other risks arising from their specific business strategies. Furthermore, production levels for solar, wind and other renewable energies may be dependent upon adequate sunlight, wind, or biogas production, which can vary from market to market and period to period, resulting in volatility in production levels and profitability. In addition, our cleantech companies may have narrow product lines and small market shares, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as to general economic downturns. The revenues, income (or losses) and valuations of clean technology companies can and often do fluctuate suddenly and dramatically and the markets in which clean technology companies operate are generally characterized by abrupt business cycles and intense competition. Demand for cleantech and renewable energy is also influenced by the available supply and prices for other energy products, such as coal, oil and natural gas. A change in prices in these energy products could reduce demand for alternative energy. Cleantech companies face potential litigation, including significant warranty and product liability claims, as well as class action and government claims. Such litigation could adversely affect the business and results of operations of our cleantech portfolio companies. There is also uncertainty about whether agreements or government programs providing incentives for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions will continue and whether countries around the world will enact or maintain legislation that provides incentives for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, without which some investments in clean technology dependent portfolio companies may not be economical, and financing for such projects may become unavailable. As a result, these portfolio company investments face considerable risk, including the risk that favorable regulatory regimes expire or are adversely modified. This could, in turn, materially adversely affect the value of the clean technology companies in our portfolio. 41 Cleantech companies are subject to extensive government regulation and certain other risks particular to the sectors in which they operate and our business and growth strategy could be adversely affected if government regulations, priorities and resources impacting such sectors change or if our portfolio companies fail to comply with such regulations. As part of our investment strategy we invest in portfolio companies in Cleantech sectors that may be subject to extensive regulation by foreign, U.S. federal, state and/or local agencies. Changes in existing laws, rules or regulations, or judicial or administrative interpretations thereof, or new laws, rules or regulations could have an adverse impact on the business and industries of our portfolio companies. In addition, changes in government priorities or limitations on government resources could also adversely impact our portfolio companies. We are unable to predict whether any such changes in laws, rules or regulations will occur and, if they do occur, the impact of these changes on our portfolio companies and our investment returns. Furthermore, if any of our portfolio companies fail to comply with applicable regulations, they could be subject to significant penalties and claims that could materially and adversely affect their operations. Our portfolio companies may be subject to the expense, delay and uncertainty of the regulatory approval process for their products and, even if approved, these products may not be accepted in the marketplace. In addition, there is considerable uncertainty about whether foreign, U.S., state and/or local governmental entities will enact or maintain legislation or regulatory programs that mandate reductions in greenhouse gas emissions or provide incentives for Cleantech companies. Without such regulatory policies, investments in Cleantech companies may not be economical and financing for Cleantech companies may become unavailable, which could materially adversely affect the ability of our portfolio companies to repay the debt they owe to us. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect the operations and financial condition of a portfolio company and, in turn, the ability of the portfolio company to repay the debt they owe to us. If our portfolio companies are unable to commercialize their technologies, products, business concepts or services, the returns on our investments could be adversely affected. The value of our investments in our portfolio companies may decline if our portfolio companies are not able to commercialize their technology, products, business concepts or services. Additionally, although some of our portfolio companies may already have a commercially successful product or product line at the time of our investment, technology-related products and services often have a more limited market or life span than products in other industries. Thus, the ultimate success of these companies often depends on their ability to innovate continually in increasingly competitive markets. If they are unable to do so, our investment returns could be adversely affected and their ability to service their debt obligations to us over the life of a loan could be impaired. Our portfolio companies may be unable to acquire or develop successful new technologies and the intellectual property they currently hold may not remain viable. Even if our portfolio companies are able to develop commercially viable products, the market for new products and services is highly competitive and rapidly changing. Neither our portfolio companies nor we have any control over the pace of technology development. Commercial success is difficult to predict, and the marketing efforts of our portfolio companies may not be successful. If our portfolio companies are unable to protect their intellectual property rights, our business and prospects could be harmed, and if portfolio companies are required to devote significant resources to protecting their intellectual property rights, the value of our investment could be reduced. Our future success and competitive position depends in part upon the ability of our portfolio companies to obtain, maintain and protect proprietary technology used in their products and services. The intellectual property held by our portfolio companies often represents a substantial portion of the collateral securing our investments and/or constitutes a significant portion of the portfolio companies’ value that may be available in a downside scenario to repay our loans. Our portfolio companies rely, in part, on patent, trade secret and trademark law to protect that technology, but competitors may misappropriate their intellectual property, and disputes as to ownership of intellectual property may arise. Portfolio companies may, from time to time, be required to institute litigation to enforce their patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights, protect their trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or defend against claims of infringement. 42 Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Similarly, if a portfolio company is found to infringe or misappropriate a third party’s patent or other proprietary rights, it could be required to pay damages to the third party, alter its products or processes, obtain a license from the third party and/or cease activities utilizing the proprietary rights, including making or selling products utilizing the proprietary rights. Any of the foregoing events could negatively affect both the portfolio company’s ability to service our debt investment and the value of any related debt and equity securities that we own, as well as the value of any collateral securing our investment. We do not expect to control any of our portfolio companies. We do not control, or expect to control in the future, any of our portfolio companies, even though our debt agreements may contain certain restrictive covenants that limit the business and operations of our portfolio companies. We also do not maintain, or intend to maintain in the future, a control position to the extent we own equity interests in any portfolio company. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt investors. Due to the lack of liquidity of the investments that we typically hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company and we may therefore, suffer a decrease in the value of our investments. Risks Related to Our Common Stock There is a risk that investors in our equity securities may not receive dividends or that our dividends may not grow over time and, a portion of distributions paid to you may be a return of capital. We intend to make distributions on a monthly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Our ability to pay dividends might be adversely affected by, among other things, the impact of one or more risk factors described in this report. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a BDC, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. All distributions will be paid at the discretion of our Board and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our RIC status, compliance with BDC regulation and such other factors as our Board may deem relevant from time to time. We cannot assure you that we will pay distributions to our stockholders in the future. Further, if we invest a greater amount of assets in equity securities that do not pay current dividends, that could reduce the amount available for distribution. On an annual basis, we must determine the extent to which any distributions we made were paid out of current or accumulated earnings, recognized capital gains or capital. To the extent there is a return of capital, investors will be required to reduce their basis in our stock for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which will result in higher tax liability when the shares are sold, even if they have not increased in value or have lost value. In addition, any return of capital will be net of any sales load and offering expenses associated with sales of shares of our common stock. In the future, our distributions may include a return of capital. We cannot assure you that the market price of shares of our common stock will not decline. Our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock will trade. Shares of closed-end management investment companies have in the past frequently traded at discounts to their NAVs, and our common stock has been and may continue to be discounted in the market. This characteristic of closed-end management investment companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our NAV per share may decline. We cannot predict whether shares of our common stock will trade above, at or below our NAV. If our common stock trades below its NAV, we will generally not be able to sell additional shares of our common stock without first obtaining the approval of our stockholders (including our unaffiliated stockholders) and our independent directors. 43 Our common stock price may be volatile and may decrease substantially. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially and the liquidity of our common stock may be limited, in each case depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market or in the market for BDCs from time to time; • investor demand for our shares of common stock; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of registered closed-end management investment companies, BDCs or other financial services companies; • our inability to raise capital, borrow money or deploy or invest our capital; • fluctuations in interest rates; • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; • operating performance of companies comparable to us; • changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines with respect to RICs or BDCs; • losing RIC status; • actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; • general economic conditions, trends and other external factors; • departures of key personnel; or • loss of a major source of funding. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price, we may therefore be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. Shares of closed-end investment companies, including BDCs, frequently trade at a discount to their NAV, and we cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not decline following an offering. We cannot predict the price at which our common stock will trade. Shares of closed-end investment companies frequently trade at a discount to their NAV and our stock may also be discounted in the market. This characteristic of closed-end investment companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our NAV per share may decline. We cannot predict whether shares of our common stock will trade above, at or below our NAV. In addition, if our common stock trades below its NAV, we will generally not be able to issue additional shares of our common stock at its market price without first obtaining the approval of our stockholders and our independent directors. We currently invest a portion of our capital in high-quality short-term investments, which generate lower rates of return than those expected from investments made in accordance with our investment objective. We currently invest a portion of the net proceeds of our capital in cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities, money market funds and other high-quality short-term investments. These securities may earn yields substantially lower than the income that we anticipate receiving once these proceeds are fully invested in accordance with our investment objective. Investing in shares of our common stock may involve an above average degree of risk. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objective may result in a higher amount of risk, volatility or loss of principal than alternative investment options. Our investments in portfolio companies may be highly speculative and aggressive, and therefore, an investment in our common stock may not be suitable for investors with lower risk tolerance. 44 Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and other agreements and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law (“DGCL”) could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. The DGCL, our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us. Among other things, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: •provide for a classified board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our Board; •authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our Board to thwart a takeover attempt; •do not provide for cumulative voting; •provide that vacancies on the Board, including newly created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; •limit the calling of special meetings of stockholders; •provide that our directors may be removed only for cause; •require supermajority voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws; and •require stockholders to provide advance notice of new business proposals and director nominations under specific procedures. These anti-takeover provisions may inhibit a change in control in circumstances that could give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price of our common stock. It is a default under our Credit Facilities if (i) a person or group of persons (within the meaning of the Exchange Act) acquires beneficial ownership of 20% or more of our issued and outstanding stock or (ii) during any twelve-month period individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted our Board cease for any reason, other than death or disability, to constitute a majority of the directors in office. If either event were to occur, Wells or Fortress could accelerate our repayment obligations under, and/or terminate, our Credit Facilities. If we elect to issue preferred stock, holders of any such preferred stock will have the right to elect members of our Board and have class voting rights on certain matters. The 1940 Act requires that holders of shares of preferred stock must be entitled as a class to elect two directors at all times and to elect a majority of the directors if dividends on such preferred stock are in arrears by two years or more, until such arrearage is eliminated. In addition, certain matters under the 1940 Act require the separate vote of the holders of any issued and outstanding preferred stock, including changes in fundamental investment restrictions and conversion to open-end status and, accordingly, preferred stockholders could veto any such changes. Restrictions imposed on the declarations and payment of dividends or other distributions to the holders of our common stock and preferred stock, both by the 1940 Act and by requirements imposed by rating agencies, might impair our ability to maintain our qualification as a RIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Your interest in us may be diluted if you do not fully exercise your subscription rights in any rights offering. In addition, if the subscription price is less than our NAV per share, then you will experience an immediate dilution of the aggregate NAV of your shares. In the event we issue subscription rights, stockholders who do not fully exercise their rights should expect that they will, at the completion of a rights offering, own a smaller proportional interest in us than would otherwise be the case if they fully exercised their rights. Such dilution is not currently determinable because it is not known what proportion of the shares will be purchased as a result of such rights offering. Any such dilution will disproportionately affect nonexercising stockholders. If the subscription price per share is substantially less than the current NAV per share, this dilution could be substantial. 45 In addition, if the subscription price is less than our NAV per share, our stockholders would experience an immediate dilution of the aggregate NAV of their shares as a result of such rights offering. The amount of any decrease in NAV is not predictable because it is not known at this time what the subscription price and NAV per share will be on the expiration date of the rights offering or what proportion of the shares will be purchased as a result of such rights offering. Such dilution could be substantial. Investors in offerings of our common stock may incur immediate dilution upon the closing of such offering. If the public offering price for any offering of shares of our common stock is higher than the book value per share of our outstanding common stock, investors purchasing shares of common stock in any such offering will pay a price per share that exceeds the tangible book value per share after such offering. If we sell common stock at a discount to our NAV per share, stockholders who do not participate in such sale will experience immediate dilution in an amount that may be material. The issuance or sale by us of shares of our common stock at a discount to NAV poses a risk of dilution to our stockholders. In particular, stockholders who do not purchase additional shares at or below the discounted price in proportion to their current ownership will experience an immediate decrease in NAV per share (as well as in the aggregate NAV of their shares if they do not participate at all). These stockholders will also experience a disproportionately greater decrease in their participation in our earnings and assets and their voting power than the increase we experience in our assets, potential earning power and voting interests from such issuance or sale. In addition, such sales may adversely affect the price at which our common stock trades. Stockholders will experience dilution in their ownership percentage if they do not participate in our dividend reinvestment plan. All dividends payable to stockholders that are participants in our dividend reinvestment plan (“DRIP”) are automatically reinvested in shares of our common stock. As a result, stockholders that do not participate in the dividend reinvestment plan will experience dilution over time. The trading market or market value of our publicly issued debt securities that we may issue may fluctuate. Upon issuance, any publicly issued debt securities that we may issue will not have an established trading market. We cannot assure you that a trading market for our publicly issued debt securities will ever develop or, if developed, will be maintained. In addition to our creditworthiness, many factors may materially adversely affect the trading market for, and market value of, our publicly issued debt securities. These factors include: •the time remaining to the maturity of these debt securities; •the outstanding principal amount of debt securities with terms identical to these debt securities; •the supply of debt securities trading in the secondary market, if any; •the redemption or repayment features, if any of these debt securities; •the level, direction and volatility of market interest rates generally; and •market rate of interest higher or lower than rate borne by the debt securities. You should also be aware that there may be a limited number of buyers when you decide to sell your debt securities. This too may materially adversely affect the market value of the debt securities or the trading market for the debt securities. 46 Terms relating to redemption may materially adversely affect your return on the debt securities that we may issue. If we issue debt securities that are redeemable at our option, we may choose to redeem the debt securities at times when prevailing interest rates are lower than the interest rate paid on the debt securities. In addition, if such debt securities are subject to mandatory redemption, we may be required to redeem the debt securities at times when prevailing interest rates are lower than the interest rate paid on the debt securities. In this circumstance, you may not be able to reinvest the redemption proceeds in a comparable security at an effective interest rate as high as your debt securities being redeemed. Credit ratings provided by third party credit rating agencies may not reflect all risks of an investment in debt securities that we may issue. Credit ratings provided by third party credit rating agencies are an assessment by third parties of our ability to pay our obligations. Consequently, real or anticipated changes in our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of debt securities that we may issue. Credit ratings provided by third party credit rating agencies, however, may not reflect the potential impact of risks related to market conditions generally or other factors discussed above on the market value of or trading market for any publicly issued debt securities that we may issue. Subsequent sales in the public market of substantial amounts of our common stock by the selling stockholders may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, and the registration of a substantial amount of insider shares, whether or not actually sold, may have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the availability of such common stock for sale, whether or not actually sold, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. If this occurs and continues, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities should we desire to do so. In addition, because shares owned by HTF-CHF Holdings LLC, an entity that is primarily owned by certain of our officers, are being registered for resale, a negative perception could be created in the market about the Company’s prospects by such registration. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 