Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this Annual Report in evaluating our business and our prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and the related notes. We may not be successful in developing our NexGen system and its related test menu. Achieving profitability and our medium to long-term growth projections will require the successful development and commercialization of our NexGen system and its related test menu. We are designing this system to integrate automated nucleic acid extraction and amplification with our eSensor® technology to allow technicians to be able to place patient samples directly into our test cartridges and obtain results with significantly reduced or no technician hands-on processing time. The development of new or enhanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends, as well as precise technological execution. In addition, the development of the NexGen system involves multiple technologies and third party collaboration partners, and we may not be successful in completing the development of all the currently intended features and benefits of the system or effectively managing the complexities of the development program. Although we have significant experience with our proprietary eSensor® electrochemical detection technology, we have not thus far developed a complete sample-to-answer diagnostic instrument system. Doing so will require the successful convergence of our eSensor® technology with a number of additional technologies with which we have limited knowledge and experience and for which we must rely on a number of collaboration partners. For example, in July 2012, we entered into a Development Collaboration and License Agreement with Advanced Liquid Logic, Inc., or ALL, which established a collaborative program to develop in-vitro diagnostic products incorporating ALL’s proprietary electro-wetting technology in conjunction with electrochemical detection. We also rely upon our collaboration partners to assist us with other technical aspects of our NexGen development program. While we have signed agreements with each of our collaboration partners, we cannot completely control the resources our collaboration partners dedicate to our NexGen development program. If any of our corporate collaborators were to breach or terminate its agreement with us or otherwise fail to conduct its collaborative activities successfully, in a timely manner or on budget, or if we are otherwise unsuccessful in effectively managing the complexities of our NexGen development program, the development or commercialization of our NexGen system could be delayed or terminated, or could cost significantly more than our current estimates. 20 Table of Contents Our financial results will depend on the acceptance and increased demand among reference laboratories, hospitals and the medical community of our molecular diagnostic technology and products. Our future success depends on the acceptance by our target customers and the medical community that our molecular diagnostic products are a reliable, medically-relevant, accurate and cost-effective replacement for other molecular diagnostic testing methods. Medical offices and many hospitals outsource their molecular diagnostic testing needs to national or regional reference laboratories. Our business success depends on our ability to convince these target laboratories and hospitals to perform these tests internally with our products if they have historically outsourced their testing needs, or to replace their current testing platforms with our system and its related test offerings. Many other factors may affect the market acceptance and commercial success of our molecular diagnostic technology and products, including: • the relative convenience and ease of use of our diagnostic systems over competing products; • the introduction of new technologies and competing products that may make our technologies and products a less attractive solution for our target customers; • the breadth of our menu of available diagnostic tests relative to our competitors; • our success in training reference and hospital-based laboratories in the proper use of our products; • the acceptance in the medical community and key opinion leaders of our molecular diagnostic technology and products; • the extent and success of our marketing and sales efforts; and • general economic conditions. Professional societies, government agencies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations and organizations involved in healthcare issues may publish guidelines, recommendations or studies to the healthcare and patient communities. Recommendations of government agencies or these other organizations may relate to such matters as usage, cost-effectiveness and use of related products. Organizations like these have in the past made recommendations about our competitors’ products, such as the need for less frequent screening tests, which could result in reduced product sales. Moreover, the perception by the investment community or stockholders that recommendations, guidelines or studies will result in decreased use of our products could adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. If third-party payors do not reimburse our customers for the use of our products or if reimbursement levels are set too low for us to sell our products at a profit, our ability to sell our products and our results of operations will be harmed. We sell our products to hospital-based and reference laboratories, substantially all of which receive reimbursement for the health care services they provide to their patients from third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid, other domestic and foreign government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. Reimbursement decisions by particular third-party payors depend upon a number of factors, including each third-party payor’s determination that use of a product is: • a covered benefit under its health plan; • appropriate and medically necessary for the specific indication; • cost effective; and • neither experimental nor investigational. 21 Table of Contents Third-party payors may deny reimbursement for covered products if they determine that a medical product was not used in accordance with cost-effective diagnosis methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. Third-party payors also may refuse to reimburse for procedures and devices deemed to be experimental or investigational. Obtaining coverage and reimbursement approval for a product from each government or third-party payor is a time consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our product to each government or third-party payor. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to coverage and reimbursement. For example, Medicare and Medicaid generally do not reimburse providers who use our Warfarin Sensitivity Test. In addition, eligibility for coverage does not imply that any product will be covered and reimbursed in all cases or reimbursed at a rate that allows our potential customers to make a profit or even cover their costs. Further, third-party payors may choose to reimburse our customers per test based on individual biomarker detection, rather than on the basis of the number of results given by the test. This may result in reference laboratories, public health institutions and hospitals electing to use separate tests to screen for each disease so that they can receive reimbursement for each test they conduct. In that event, these entities may purchase separate tests for each disease, rather than products, such as ours, that can be used to return multiple test results. In the United States, the American Medical Association, or AMA, generally assigns specific billing codes for laboratory tests under a coding system known as Current Procedure Terminology, or CPT, codes, which are necessary for our customers to bill and receive reimbursement for our diagnostic tests. Once the CPT code is established, CMS, which is responsible for implementing the Medicare program, establishes payment levels and coverage rules under Medicare. Private payors establish rates and coverage rules independently. We cannot guarantee that any of our tests are or will be covered by the CPT codes that we believe may be applied to them or that any of our tests or other products will be approved for coverage or reimbursement by Medicare, Medicaid or any third-party payor. Third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. Increasingly, Medicare, Medicaid and other third-party payors are challenging the prices charged for medical services, including clinical diagnostic tests. In addition, payment methodologies may be subject to changes in healthcare legislation. In February 2012, President Obama signed the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, which mandated an additional change in reimbursement for clinical laboratory services payments. This legislation requires CMS to reduce the Medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule by 2% in 2013, which in turn will serve as a base for 2014 and subsequent years. Levels of reimbursement may continue to decrease in the future, and future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payors may harm the demand and reimbursement available for our products, which in turn, could harm our pricing and sales. If our customers are not adequately reimbursed for our products, they may reduce or discontinue purchases of our products, which would cause our revenues to decline. In January 2013, CMS implemented new molecular diagnostic CPT codes and retired the prior procedural codes used to bill for molecular testing. In February 2012, two major Medicare carriers issued new molecular pathology pricing codes. Certain tests to identify specific genes or analytes which have been regularly used by the medical community for a number of years and, in certain cases, established as a standard of care in making therapy decisions, including certain of the products we currently sell, were previously available for reimbursement under the prior coding system. However, under the new coding system, some of these tests may now be denied reimbursement as investigational or experimental, or may be subject to significantly reduced reimbursement rates. If the clinical validity and utility of these tests cannot be established to the satisfaction of insurance carriers and third party payors, or the level of reimbursement for these tests is significantly reduced, some of our customers would be negatively affected, which, in turn, would adversely affect our revenues. 22 Table of Contents Our revenue, results of operations and cash flows would suffer upon the loss of a significant customer. We have a few large customers that generate a significant amount of our revenue. Our two largest customers, NMTC and Companion Diagnostics, accounted for approximately 68% of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012. While we have signed contracts with our significant customers, we may lose a significant customer if any existing contract with such customer expires without being extended, renewed, renegotiated or replaced or is terminated by the customer prior to expiration, to the extent such early termination is permitted by the applicable contract, or if the customer is unable to perform its obligations due to bankruptcy or other financial distress. The loss of any significant customer or a significant reduction in the amount of product ordered by any of our significant customers would adversely affect our revenue, results of operations and cash flows. We have a history of net losses, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have a history of significant net losses and a limited history commercializing our molecular diagnostic products. We obtained FDA clearance for our first generation molecular diagnostic system in 2006, and commenced a limited marketing effort for this system. We initially offered our XT-8 system and our Warfarin Sensitivity Test in July 2008, our Cystic Fibrosis Genotyping Test in July 2009, our Thrombophilia Risk Test in April 2010, and our Respiratory Viral Panel Test in September 2012. Our net losses were approximately $22.1 million and $24.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $190.6 million. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses for the foreseeable future in connection with our ongoing operations, primarily related to our commercial organization (sales and marketing), research and development and regulatory activities, maintaining our existing intellectual property portfolio, obtaining additional intellectual property rights and investing in corporate infrastructure. Although we believe that we will become cash flow positive over the next few years, we cannot provide any assurance that we will achieve profitability and, even if we achieve profitability, that we will be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Further, because of our limited commercialization history and the rapidly evolving nature of our target market, we have limited insight into the trends that may emerge and affect our business. We may make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business trends, which could harm our business and financial condition. Although we have recently remediated a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, if we are unable to maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls, our financial results may not be accurately reported. Management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 reported a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to the supervision and review of our financial closing and reporting process, as described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. During 2012, we devoted significant time and resources to the remediation of the material weakness that included, but was not limited to: • evaluating our Finance Department’s management and staff qualifications, which resulted in us making certain personnel changes, including the replacement of our Chief Financial Officer, Controller and certain accounting staff; • redesigning and implementing structured and formalized internal control procedures; • implementing new control procedures over the utilization of external resources; and • developing and initiating a plan for the deployment of additional software systems to assist in automating and controlling certain financial processes. Although further and ongoing efforts will continue in 2013 and beyond to enhance our internal control over financial reporting, we believe that our remediation efforts now provide the foundation for compliance with the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) framework. As a result, our 23 Table of Contents assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012 no longer reports this material weakness or any other material weakness over financial reporting, and the audit report of our independent registered public accounting firm no longer expresses an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Because the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting cannot guarantee the prevention or detection of a material weakness, we can never guarantee a material weakness over financial reporting will not occur, including with respect to any previously reported material weaknesses. Any future material weakness could result in material misstatements in our financial statements or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, if we or our auditors are unable to certify that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, we may be subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or The NASDAQ Global Market, and we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would materially harm our business, the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. Disruptions in the supply of raw materials, consumable goods or other key product components, or issues associated with their quality from our single source suppliers, could result in a significant disruption in sales and profitability. We must manufacture, or engage third parties to manufacture, components of our products in sufficient quantities and on a timely basis, while maintaining product quality, acceptable manufacturing costs and complying with regulatory requirements. Our components are custom-made by only a few outside suppliers. In certain instances, we have a sole source supply for certain key product components. If we are unable to satisfy our forecasted demand from existing suppliers for our kits and are unable to find alternative suppliers at reasonably comparable prices, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we have entered into supply agreements with most of our suppliers of strategic reagents and parts to help ensure component availability and flexible purchasing terms with respect to the purchase of such components. If our suppliers discontinue production of a key component for one or more of our products, we may be unable to identify or secure a viable alternative on reasonable terms, or at all, which could limit our ability to manufacture our products. In determining the required quantities of our products and the manufacturing schedule, we must make significant judgments and estimates based on inventory levels, current market trends and other related factors. Because of the inherent nature of estimates and our limited experience in marketing our products, there could be significant differences between our estimates and the actual amounts of products we require. This can result in shortages if we fail to anticipate demand, or excess inventory and write-offs if we order more than we need. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risk to which we would not be subject if we manufactured these components ourselves, including: • reliance on third parties for regulatory compliance and quality assurance; • possible breaches of manufacturing agreements by the third parties because of factors beyond our control; • possible regulatory violations or manufacturing problems experienced by our suppliers; • possible termination or non-renewal of agreements by third parties, based on their own business priorities, at times that are costly or inconvenient for us; • the potential obsolescence and/or inability of our suppliers to obtain required components; • the potential delays and expenses of seeking alternate sources of supply or manufacturing services; 24 Table of Contents • the inability to qualify alternate sources without impacting performance claims of our products; • reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery due to the difficulties in switching to alternate suppliers or assemblers; and • increases in prices of raw materials and key components. The manufacturing operations for our test cartridges use highly technical processes involving unique, proprietary techniques. In addition, the manufacturing equipment we use would be costly to repair or replace and could require substantial lead time to repair or replace. Any interruption in our operations or decrease in the production capacity of our manufacturing facility or the facilities of any of our suppliers because of equipment failure, natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and fires, or otherwise, would limit our ability to meet customer demand for the XT-8 system and tests and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of a disruption, we may lose customers and we may be unable to regain those customers thereafter. Our insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. We have limited sales and marketing experience and are currently reliant on the commercial success of our XT-8 system and its related test menu to fund our current operations and development programs. We currently market our XT-8 instrument system and four FDA-cleared diagnostic tests. In addition, we have several diagnostic tests in the research, development or design stage. We have primarily placed our XT-8 systems with customers at no initial charge through reagent rental agreements, under which customers commit to purchase minimum quantities of test cartridges and reagents (consumables) over a period of generally one to three years, with a component of the cartridge and reagent price allocated to recover the instrument price. We also offer our XT-8 systems for sale. We expect sales of consumables associated with our XT-8 system will account for the vast majority of our revenues for at least the next several years. We intend to continue to dedicate a significant portion of our resources to the commercialization of our XT-8 system and its related test menu, while also dedicating significant resources to the development of our NexGen system and its related test menu. As a result, to the extent that our XT-8 system and our existing and future diagnostic and research products are not commercially successful or are withdrawn from the market for any reason, our operating results, financial condition and critical development programs would be harmed and we may be required to seek additional funding to support our ongoing operations. In addition, we have limited marketing, sales and distribution experience and capabilities. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on attracting customers for the XT-8 system and its related test menu and building brand loyalty. To successfully perform sales, marketing, distribution and customer support functions ourselves, we face a number of risks, including: • our ability to attract and retain the skilled support team, marketing staff and sales force necessary to commercialize and gain market acceptance for our technology and our products; • the ability of our sales and marketing team to identify and penetrate the potential customer base, including hospitals and national and regional reference laboratories; and • the difficulty of establishing brand recognition and loyalty for our products. Some hospital-based and reference laboratories may not consider adopting our XT-8 system unless we offer a broader menu of diagnostic tests or may choose not to convert from competitive products unless and until we are able to offer a sample-to-answer instrument solution, such as our NexGen instrument. In addition, in order to commercialize our products, we are required to undertake time consuming and costly development activities, including clinical studies for which the outcome is uncertain. Products that appear promising during early development and preclinical studies may, nonetheless, fail to demonstrate the results needed to support regulatory approval or, if approved, may not generate the demand we expect. If we are unable to effectively 25 Table of Contents compete with our XT-8 system and its related test menu, our revenues and our ability to achieve profitability will be significantly impaired. We face intense competition from established and new companies in the molecular diagnostics field and expect to face increased competition in the future. The markets for our technologies and products are highly competitive and we expect the intensity of competition to increase. We compete with many companies in the United States engaged in the development, commercialization and distribution of similar products intended for clinical molecular diagnostic applications. Categories of our competitors include: • companies developing and marketing multiplex molecular diagnostics systems, including Luminex Corporation; Nanosphere, Inc.; BioFire Diagnostics; Qiagen NV; Abbott Molecular Diagnostics, a division of Abbott Laboratories; and Hologic, Inc.; • large hospital-based laboratories and reference laboratories who provide large-scale testing using their own proprietary testing methods, including Quest Diagnostics Incorporated and Laboratory Corporation of America; and • companies that manufacture laboratory-based tests and analyzers, including Cepheid; Siemens; Hologic, Inc.; Qiagen NV; BioFire Diagnostics; Roche Diagnostics, a division of F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd.; and Abbott Molecular Diagnostics. Our diagnostic tests also face competition from LDTs developed by national and regional reference laboratories and hospitals. Such LDTs may not be subject to the same regulatory requirements, including those requiring clinical trials and FDA review and clearance or approval that may apply to our diagnostic products. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter the market with new technologies and our competitors improve their current products and expand their menu of diagnostic tests. Many of our current competitors, as well as many of our potential competitors, have greater name recognition, more substantial intellectual property portfolios, longer operating histories, significantly greater resources to invest in new technologies, more substantial experience in new product development, greater regulatory expertise, and more extensive manufacturing and distribution capabilities. It is critical to our success that we anticipate changes in technology and customer requirements and successfully introduce enhanced and competitive technology to meet our customers’ and prospective customers’ needs on a timely basis. If we fail to effectively compete and keep pace with emerging technologies, our systems and related tests will become uncompetitive and our market share will decline, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The regulatory clearance or approval process for certain products is expensive, time consuming and uncertain, and the failure to obtain and maintain required clearances or approvals could prevent us from commercializing our products. We are investing in the research and development of our NexGen instrument and related diagnostic tests to expand our future product offerings. Our diagnostic products are subject to 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval by the FDA prior to their marketing for commercial use in the United States, and to any approvals required by foreign governmental regulations, directives and/or entities prior to their marketing outside the United States. In addition, any changes or modifications to a device that has received regulatory clearance or approval that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or would constitute a major change in its intended use, may require the submission of a new application for 510(k) clearance, pre-market approval or foreign regulatory approvals. Our products are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals and to affix the CE mark 26 Table of Contents to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming. In particular, the FDA permits commercial distribution of a new medical device only after the device has received clearance under Section 510(k) of the FDCA, or is the subject of an approved PMA, unless the device is specifically exempt from those requirements. It generally takes from four to twelve months from submission to obtain 510(k) clearance, and from one to three years from submission to obtain premarket approval; however, it may take longer, and 510(k) clearance or premarket approval may never be obtained. Similarly, we may not be able to obtain CE Certificates of Conformity necessary to affix the CE mark on our medical devices on a timely basis, if at all. The FDA will clear marketing of a lower risk medical device through the 510(k) process if the manufacturer demonstrates that the new product is substantially equivalent to other 510(k)-cleared products. High risk devices deemed to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting, or implantable devices, or devices not deemed substantially equivalent to a previously cleared device, require the approval of a PMA. The PMA process is more costly, lengthy and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process. A PMA must be supported by extensive data, including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trial, manufacturing and labeling data, to demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction the safety and efficacy of the device for its intended use. The FDA also recently initiated a review of the pre-market clearance process in response to internal and external concerns regarding the 510(k) program. In January 2011, the FDA announced 25 action items designed to make the process more rigorous and transparent. Some of these proposals, if enacted, could impose additional regulatory requirements upon us which could delay our ability to obtain new 510(k) clearances, increase the costs of compliance or restrict our ability to maintain our current clearances. In addition, an important part of the European Union, or EU, conformity assessment process prior to CE marking of medical devices is a review of related clinical data. While a prospective clinical study may not be required in the EU, all medical devices must have accompanying clinical data. The extent of this data is dictated by the classification of the device. Implantable devices and certain devices classified as Class III devices require clinical investigations to be performed unless it is duly justified to rely on existing clinical data. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, clearances or approvals for future products, including our NexGen system and products that are currently in design or development, would result in delayed, or no, realization of revenues from such products and in substantial additional costs, which could decrease our profitability. We have limited experience in filing FDA applications for 510(k) clearance and pre-market approval and in securing foreign governmental authorizations. In addition, we are required to continue to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements once we have obtained clearance or approval for a product. There can be no assurance that we will obtain or maintain any required clearance or approval on a timely basis, or at all. Any failure to obtain or any material delay in obtaining clearance or approval of our products by the FDA or relevant foreign regulatory bodies, or any failure to maintain compliance with FDA or foreign regulatory requirements, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the sale of RUO tests. Under the terms of recent FDA guidance, the marketing of our RUO tests to certain clinical laboratory customers for use as LDTs may be limited if the FDA were to change its existing policy of exercising enforcement discretion with respect to LDTs. Accordingly, if the FDA imposes significant changes to the regulation or enforcement of LDTs, including our RUO tests that are used as LDTs, it may be more challenging for us to market some of our RUO products and we may be required to terminate those RUO product sales, conduct clinical studies and make submissions of our RUO products to the FDA for clearance or approval, which could reduce our revenues or increase our costs and adversely affect our operations or financial condition. Legislative or regulatory healthcare reforms may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Federal and state governments in the United States are also undertaking efforts to control growing health care costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and third-party payors. In March 2010, Congress enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the 27 Table of Contents Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or the PPACA. While the PPACA involves expanding coverage to more individuals, it includes new regulatory mandates and other measures designed to constrain medical costs. Among other requirements, the PPACA also imposes a 2.3% excise tax on sales of medical devices by manufacturers that is expected to cost the medical device industry up to $20 billion over the next decade. Taxable devices include any medical device defined in Section 201(h) of the FDCA and intended for use by humans, with limited exclusions for devices purchased by the general public at retail for individual use. There is no exemption for small companies, and we began paying the tax in 2013. Complying with PPACA could significantly increase our tax liabilities and costs, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. In August 2011, the President signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which may result in such changes as aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in 2013. The full impact on our business of the PPACA and the Budget Control Act is uncertain. We cannot predict whether other legislative changes will be adopted, if any, or how such changes would affect the medical device industry generally. Our products could infringe patent rights of others, which may require costly litigation and, if we are not successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages or limit our ability to commercialize our products. Our commercial success depends on our ability to develop, manufacture and market our systems and tests and use our proprietary technology without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. As the molecular diagnostic industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that there may be patents issued to third parties that relate to our products and technology of which we are not aware or that we must challenge to continue our operations as currently contemplated. Our products may infringe or may be alleged to infringe these patents. In addition, patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until eighteen months after filing. For this reason, and because publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our issued patents or our pending applications or that we were the first to invent the technology. Another party may have filed or may in the future file patent applications covering our products or technology similar to ours. Under the “first to invent” rules applicable to patents filed before March 2013, any such patent application may have priority over our patent applications or patents, which could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such technologies. If another party has filed a U.S. patent application on inventions similar to ours, we may have to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful if the other party had independently arrived at the same or similar invention prior to our own invention, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position with respect to such inventions. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device, biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries generally. From time to time we may become engaged in litigation with third parties having patent or other intellectual property rights alleging that our products or proprietary technologies infringe their intellectual property rights. If a third party claims that we or any collaborator infringes its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including, but not limited to: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, regardless of merit, may be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and may divert our management’s attention from our core business; • substantial damages for infringement, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product at issue infringes on or violates the third party’s rights, and if the court finds that the infringement was willful, we could be ordered to pay treble damages and the patent owner’s attorneys’ fees; 28 Table of Contents • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing our product unless the third party licenses its product rights to us, which it is not required to do; • if a license is available from a third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, upfront fees or grant cross-licenses to intellectual property rights for our products; and • redesigning our products or processes so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial monetary expenditures and time. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations. If we are unable to obtain, maintain and enforce intellectual property protection covering our products, others may be able to make, use or sell products substantially the same as ours, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market. Our commercial success is dependent in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing intellectual property rights, including patents. If we are unable to obtain, maintain and enforce intellectual property protection covering our products, others may be able to make, use or sell products that are substantially the same as ours without incurring the sizeable development and licensing costs that we have incurred, which would adversely affect our ability to compete in the market. We seek to obtain and maintain patents and other intellectual property rights to restrict the ability of others to market products that compete with our products. Currently, our patent portfolio is comprised, on a worldwide basis, of over 150 issued U.S. and foreign patents and numerous pending applications. In general, patents have a term of 20 years from the application filing date or earlier claimed priority date. A majority of our issued and exclusively licensed patents will expire between 2013 and 2021, with approximately one half of the patents expiring by 2018. Several of our pending applications have the potential to mature into patents that might expire between 2028 and 2033. However, patents may not be issued based on any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us and, moreover, issued patents owned or licensed to us now or in the future may be found by a court to be invalid or otherwise unenforceable. Also, even if our patents are determined by a court to be valid and enforceable, they may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from marketing products similar to ours or designing around our patents, despite our patent rights, nor provide us with freedom to operate unimpeded by the patent rights of others. We have also licensed certain intellectual property from third parties related to our products, and we rely on them to file and prosecute patent applications and maintain patents and otherwise protect the licensed intellectual property. We have not had and do not have primary control over these activities for certain of our patents or patent applications and other intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that such activities by third parties have been or will be conducted in compliance with applicable laws and regulations or will result in valid and enforceable patents and other intellectual property rights. Pursuant to the terms of the license agreements with some of our licensors, the licensors may have the right to control enforcement of our licensed patents or defense of any claims asserting the invalidity of these patents and even if we are permitted to pursue such enforcement or defense, we will require the cooperation of our licensors. We cannot be certain that our licensors will allocate sufficient resources or prioritize their or our enforcement of such patents or defense of such claims to protect our interests in the licensed patents. If we fail to comply with our material obligations under any of our patent license agreements, the licenses may be terminated and we could lose license rights that are important to our business. Furthermore, additional licenses we may need may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which could adversely affect our results of operations and growth prospects. The patent positions of medical device companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in patents in these fields has emerged to date in the United States or in many foreign 29 Table of Contents jurisdictions. Both the U.S. Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit have made, and will likely continue to make, changes in how the patent laws of the U.S. are interpreted. In addition, there are numerous recent changes to the patent laws and proposed changes to the rules of the PTO, which may have a significant impact on our ability to protect our technology and enforce our intellectual property rights. For example, in September 2011 the United States enacted sweeping changes to the U.S. patent system under the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, including changes that would transition the United States from a “first-to-invent” system to a “first to file” system and alter the processes for challenging issued patents. These changes may materially affect the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents and patents of our collaborators and licensors. The patent situation in the medical device and diagnostic fields outside the United States is even more uncertain. We have a number of foreign patents and applications. However, the laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States, and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in obtaining, protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we encounter such difficulties or we are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business prospects could be substantially harmed. We also rely on trade-secret protection to protect our interests in proprietary know-how and for processes for which patents are difficult to obtain or enforce. We may not be able to protect our trade secrets adequately. We have limited control over the protection of trade secrets used by our licensors, collaborators and suppliers. Although we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using any of our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. We rely, in part, on non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and other parties to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary technology. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Moreover, others may independently develop equivalent proprietary information, and third parties may otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. Any disclosure of confidential data into the public domain or to third parties could allow our competitors to learn our trade secrets and use the information in competition against us. We may need to raise additional funds in the future, and such funds may not be available on a timely basis, or at all. Until such time, if ever, as we can generate positive cash flows from operations, we will be required to finance our operations with our cash resources. We may need to raise additional funds in the future to support our operations. We cannot be certain that additional capital will be available as needed, on acceptable terms, or at all. If we require additional capital at a time when investment in our company, in molecular diagnostics companies or the marketplace in general is limited, we may not be able to raise such funds at the time that we desire, or at all. If we do raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible securities, the percentage ownership of holders of our common stock could be significantly diluted. In addition, newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we obtain debt financing, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations and place encumbrances on our assets. If we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we could be required to relinquish significant rights to our technologies and products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. 30 Table of Contents If we are unable to retain key members of our senior management and scientists or hire additional skilled employees, we may be unable to achieve our goals. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our senior management. Competition for top management personnel is intense and we may not be able to recruit and retain the personnel we need. Our senior managers can terminate their relationship with us at any time. The loss of services of any of these key personnel could significantly reduce our operational effectiveness and investor confidence and our stock price could decline. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our employees. In addition, our product development and marketing efforts could be delayed or curtailed if we are unable to attract, train and retain highly skilled technical employees and scientific advisors. To expand our research, product development and sales efforts, we will need to retain additional people skilled in areas such as electrochemical and molecular science, information technology, manufacturing, sales, marketing and technical support. Because of the complex and technical nature of our systems and the dynamic market in which we compete, any failure to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could materially harm our ability to develop and commercialize our technology. We may not be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to manage our anticipated growth, and we may experience constraints or inefficiencies caused by unanticipated acceleration and deceleration of customer demand. Demand for our Respiratory Viral Panel Test can be seasonal based upon influenza outbreaks. Also, unanticipated changes in customer demand for our products may result in constraints or inefficiencies related to our manufacturing, sales force, implementation resources and administrative infrastructure. These constraints or inefficiencies may adversely affect us as a result of delays, lost potential product sales or loss of current or potential customers due to their dissatisfaction. Similarly, over-expansion or investments in anticipation of growth that does not materialize, or develops more slowly than we expect, could harm our financial results and result in overcapacity. To manage our anticipated future growth effectively, we must enhance our manufacturing capabilities and operations, information technology infrastructure, and financial and accounting systems and controls. Organizational growth and scale-up of operations could strain our existing managerial, operational, financial and other resources. Our growth could require significant capital expenditures and may divert financial resources from other projects, such as the development of new products or enhancements of existing products. If our management is unable to effectively manage our growth, our expenses may increase more than expected, our revenue could grow more slowly than expected and we may not be able to achieve our research and development and commercialization goals. Our failure to manage our anticipated growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We may have difficulties scaling our manufacturing operations and may experience manufacturing delays or component shortages that could limit the growth of our revenue. To date, we have produced our products in limited quantities relative to the quantities necessary to achieve our desired revenue growth. We recently completed a facility expansion project designed to increase our future manufacturing capabilities. Nevertheless, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of our products or maintain consistency between differing lots of consumables. If we encounter difficulties in scaling our manufacturing operations as a result of, among other things, quality control and quality assurance issues and availability of components and raw material supplies, we will likely experience reduced sales of our products, increased repair or re-engineering costs due to product returns, and defects and increased expenses due to switching to alternate suppliers, any of which would reduce our revenues and gross margins. 31 Table of Contents Although we attempt to match our parts inventory and production capabilities to estimates of marketplace demand, to the extent system orders materially vary from our estimates, we may experience continued constraints in our systems production and delivery capacity, which could adversely impact revenue in a given fiscal period. Should our need for raw materials and components used in production continue to fluctuate, we could incur additional costs associated with either expediting or postponing delivery of those materials. We and our suppliers, contract manufacturers and customers are subject to various governmental regulations, and we may incur significant expenses to comply with, and experience delays in our product commercialization as a result of, these regulations. Our manufacturing processes and facilities, and those of some of our contract manufacturers, must comply with the federal Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which covers the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our devices. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic announced and/or unannounced inspections of manufacturing facilities. We and our contract manufacturers have been, and anticipate in the future being, subject to such inspections, as well as to inspections by other federal and state regulatory agencies. We must also file reports of device corrections and removals and adhere to the FDA’s rules on labeling and promotion. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including substantial monetary penalties and criminal prosecution. Failure to comply with applicable FDA requirements, or later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products or manufacturing processes, including our failure or the failure of one of our contract manufacturers to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection, can result in, among other things: • administrative or judicially imposed sanctions; • injunctions or the imposition of civil penalties; • recall or seizure of our products; • total or partial suspension of production or distribution; • withdrawal or suspension of marketing clearances or approvals; • clinical holds; • warning letters; • refusal to permit the import or export of our products; and • criminal prosecution. Any of these actions, in combination or alone, could prevent us from marketing, distributing or selling our products and would likely harm our business. In addition, a product defect or regulatory violation could lead to a government-mandated or voluntary recall by us. We believe that the FDA would request that we initiate a voluntary recall if a product was defective or presented a risk of injury or gross deception. Regulatory agencies in other countries have similar authority to recall devices because of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture that could endanger health. Any recall would divert management attention and financial resources, could cause the price of our shares of common stock to decline and expose us to product liability or other claims, including contractual claims from parties to whom we sold products, and harm our reputation with customers. A recall involving our XT-8 system or our diagnostic tests would be particularly harmful to our business and financial results. 32 Table of Contents The use of our diagnostic products by our customers is also affected by CLIA and related federal and state regulations that provide for regulation of laboratory testing. CLIA is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories in the United States by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality assurance, quality control and inspections. Current or future CLIA requirements or the promulgation of additional regulations affecting laboratory testing may prevent some laboratories from using some or all of our diagnostic products. If our products do not perform as expected or the reliability of the technology on which our products are based is questioned, our operating results and business would suffer. Our success depends on the market’s confidence that we can provide reliable, high quality diagnostic products. We believe that customers in our target markets are likely to be particularly sensitive to product defects and errors. As a result, our reputation and the public image of our products or technologies will be significantly impaired if our products fail to perform as expected. Although our diagnostic systems are designed to be user friendly, the functions they perform are complex and our products may develop or contain undetected defects or errors. We currently manufacture our proprietary test cartridges at our Carlsbad, California manufacturing facility. We outsource manufacturing of our XT-8 system and much of the disposable component molding for our test cartridges. In the third quarter of 2012, we formalized our relationship with Leica, the contract manufacturer of our XT-8 instrument system. Leica specializes in manufacturing of electronic and electromechanical devices for medical use. While we work closely with Leica to ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability, we cannot guarantee that these efforts will be successful. If we experience a material defect or error in our products, this could result in loss or delay of revenues, increased costs, delayed or reduced market acceptance, damaged reputation, diversion of development and management resources, legal claims, increased insurance costs or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also face the risk of product liability exposure related to the sale of our products. We currently carry product liability insurance that covers us against specific product liability claims. We also carry a separate general liability and umbrella policy that covers us against certain claims but excludes coverage for product liability. Any claim in excess of our insurance coverage, or for which we do not have insurance coverage, would need to be paid out of our cash reserves, which would harm our financial condition. We cannot assure you that we have obtained sufficient insurance or broad enough coverage to cover potential claims. Also, we cannot assure you that we can or will maintain our insurance policies on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. A product liability claim could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to correctly estimate or control our future operating expenses, which could lead to cash shortfalls. Our operating expenses may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: • the time and resources required to develop, and conduct clinical studies and obtain regulatory clearances for, additional diagnostic tests; • the expenses we incur for research and development required to maintain and improve our technology, including developing our NexGen system; • the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other patent related costs, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation; 33 Table of Contents • the expenses we incur in connection with commercialization activities, including product marketing, sales and distribution expenses; • the expenses we incur in licensing biomarkers from third parties to expand the menu of diagnostics tests we plan to offer; • our sales strategy and whether the revenues from sales of our test cartridges or XT-8 system will be sufficient to offset our expenses; • the costs to attract and retain personnel with the skills required for effective operations; and • the costs associated with being a public company. Our budgeted expense levels are based in part on our expectations concerning future revenues from sales of our XT-8 system and its related test menu. We may be unable to reduce our expenditures in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenue. Accordingly, a shortfall in demand for our products could have an immediate and material impact on our business and financial condition. We incur costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies in the United States, and failure to comply with these laws could harm our business and the price of our common stock. As a public company listed in the United States, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including regulations implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Global Market, may increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If we nevertheless fail to comply with new laws, regulations and standards, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. Current economic conditions and the uncertain economic outlook may adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Global economic conditions may remain challenging and uncertain for the foreseeable future. These conditions not only limit our access to capital but also make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause U.S. and foreign businesses and consumers to slow spending on our products and services, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. Some of our customers rely on government research grants to fund technology purchases. If negative trends in the economy affect the government’s allocation of funds to research, there may be less grant funding available for certain of our customers to purchase technologies from us. Certain of our customers may face challenges gaining timely access to sufficient credit or may otherwise be faced with budget constraints, which could result in decreased purchases of our products or in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. If our customers do not make timely payments to us, we may be required to assume greater credit risk relating to those customers, increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales outstanding would be negatively impacted. Although we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments and such losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, we may not continue to experience the same loss rates that we have in the past, especially given the current turmoil of the worldwide economy. Additionally, these economic conditions and market turbulence may also impact our suppliers causing them to be unable to supply in a timely manner sufficient quantities of customized components, thereby impairing our ability to manufacture on schedule and at commercially reasonable costs. 34 Table of Contents Providing XT-8 systems to our customers through reagent rental agreements may harm our liquidity. The majority of our XT-8 systems are provided to customers via “reagent rental” agreements, under which customers are afforded the right to use the XT-8 system in return for a commitment to purchase minimum quantities of reagents and test cartridges over a period of time. Accordingly, we must either incur the expense of manufacturing XT-8 systems well in advance of receiving sufficient revenues from test cartridges to recover our expenses or obtain third party financing sources for the purchase of our XT-8 systems. The amount of capital required to provide these systems to customers depends on the number of systems placed. Our ability to generate capital to cover these costs depends on the amount of our revenues from sales of reagents and test cartridges sold through our reagent rental agreements. We do not currently sell enough reagents and test cartridges to recover all of our fixed expenses, and therefore we currently have a net loss. If we continue not to sell a sufficient number of reagents and test cartridges to offset our fixed expenses, our liquidity will continue to be adversely affected. We use hazardous chemicals, biological materials and infectious agents in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research, product development and manufacturing processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals, biological materials and infectious disease agents. Our operations produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resulting injury from these materials. We may be sued for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and our liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials and specified waste products, as well as the discharge of pollutants into the environment and human health and safety matters. Our operations are regulated and may require that environmental permits and approvals be issued by applicable government agencies. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive and may impair our research, development and production efforts. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur substantial costs, including civil or criminal fines and penalties, clean-up costs or capital expenditures for control equipment or operational changes necessary to achieve and maintain compliance. In addition, we cannot predict the impact on our business of new or amended environmental laws or regulations or any changes in the way existing and future laws and regulations are interpreted and enforced. Our corporate structure may create tax inefficiencies. As a result of our reorganization in 2010 and prior to the reorganization steps that took place in June 2011 (as described below), Osmetech was a wholly-owned subsidiary of GenMark and a controlled foreign corporation for U.S. federal investments of Osmetech that otherwise would not be currently taxable under general tax rules may have become taxable. In addition, conveyance of intellectual property rights from one subsidiary to another could create taxable income. Distributions from GenMark to its operating subsidiaries or amongst the U.S. operating subsidiaries of GenMark could have been subject to additional U.S. and foreign income tax withholding and result in lower profits. During the quarter ended June 30, 2011, the Company underwent a corporate reorganization intended to simplify its U.S. entity structure. As part of the reorganization, Osmetech Technologies, Inc. merged into Clinical Micro Sensors, Inc., with Clinical Micro Systems, Inc. surviving. Additionally, Osmetech plc converted to a U.K. limited company for U.K. legal and tax purposes and made an entity classification election to be treated as an entity disregarded from GenMark Diagnostics, Inc. for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The reorganization did not trigger any material U.S. federal or U.K. income tax expense. In September 2012, as one of the final steps in the reorganization, we filed to liquidate Osmetech plc. It is anticipated that the post-reorganization structure will allow GenMark Diagnostics, Inc. to elect to file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return with its remaining U.S. subsidiaries, Clinical Micro Systems, Inc. and Osmetech, Inc. As a result of these steps, all operations will be included in a U.S. federal consolidated tax return and many of the inefficiencies described above will be eliminated on a going-forward basis, however, the reorganization may result in additional tax liabilities to us. 35 Table of Contents Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited. As of December 31, 2012, we had net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards of approximately $121.2 million for U.S. federal income tax purposes. These loss carryforwards will expire in varying amounts through 2032. Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, as amended, or the Code, generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of NOL carryforwards that might be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in stock ownership. We have determined that we have experienced multiple ownership changes under Section 382 of the Code. As of December 31, 2012, we estimated that approximately $63.7 million of U.S. federal net operating losses may be utilized in the future based on limitations that we have calculated under Section 382 of the Code. Our ability to use the current NOL carryforwards may also be limited by the issuance of common stock in the future. To the extent our use of NOL carryforwards is limited, our income may be subject to corporate income tax earlier than it would if we were able to use NOL carryforwards. We have recorded a full valuation allowance against our deferred net assets. We also had non-U.S. NOL carryforwards of approximately $30.4 million as of December 31, 2012. As a result of Osmetech plc entering into liquidation, our expectation is that the $30.4 million of non-U.S. NOL carryforwards will not be utilized and, therefore, we have not accounted for them as a deferred tax asset. We are exposed to risks associated with long-lived and intangible assets that may become impaired and result in an impairment charge. The carrying amounts of long-lived and intangible assets are affected whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any asset may not be recoverable. These events or changes might include an inability to successfully deliver an instrument to the marketplace and attain customer acceptance, a change in the rights or use of licensed intellectual property or other matters. Adverse events or changes in circumstances may affect the estimated discounted future cash flows expected to be derived from long-lived and intangible assets. If at any time we determine that an impairment has occurred, we will be required to reflect the impaired value as a charge, resulting in a reduction in earnings in the quarter such impairment is identified and a corresponding reduction in our net asset value. In the past we have incurred, and in the future we may incur, impairment charges. A material reduction in earnings resulting from such a charge could cause us to fail meet the expectations of investors and securities analysts, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. Information technology systems implementation issues or security threats could disrupt our internal operations and adversely affect our financial results. Portions of our information technology infrastructure may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with ongoing systems implementation work. In particular, we have implemented an enterprise resource planning software system. To more fully realize the potential of this system, we are continually reassessing and upgrading processes and this may be more expensive, time consuming and resource intensive than planned. Any disruptions that may occur in the operation of this system or any future systems or any unauthorized access to our information systems could increase our expenses and adversely affect our ability to report in an accurate and timely manner the results of our consolidated operations, our financial position and cash flows and to otherwise operate our business in a secure environment, all of which could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback, self-referral, false claims and fraud laws, and any violations by us of such laws could result in fines or other penalties. Our commercial, research and other financial relationships with healthcare providers and institutions are subject to various federal and state laws intended to prevent health care fraud and abuse. The federal anti- 36 Table of Contents kickback statute prohibits the knowing offer, receipt or payment of remuneration in exchange for or to induce the referral of patients or the use of products or services that would be paid for in whole or part by Medicare, Medicaid or other federal health care programs. Remuneration has been broadly defined to include anything of value, including cash, improper discounts, and free or reduced price items and services. Many states have similar laws that apply to their state health care programs as well as private payors. Violations of the anti-kickback laws can result in exclusion from federal health care programs and substantial civil and criminal penalties. The federal False Claims Act, or the FCA, imposes liability on persons who, among other things, present or cause to be presented false or fraudulent claims for payment by a federal health care program. The FCA has been used to prosecute persons submitting claims for payment that are inaccurate or fraudulent, that are for services not provided as claimed, or for services that are not medically necessary. If our marketing, sales or other arrangements, including our reagent rental arrangements, were determined to violate anti-kickback or related laws, including the FCA, then our revenues could be adversely affected, which could likely harm on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Beginning in 2013, the PPACA also imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for payments to healthcare providers and ownership of their stock by healthcare providers. Failure to submit required information may result in significant civil monetary penalties. We expect compliance with the PPACA to impose significant administrative and financial burdens on us. In addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians for marketing. Some states, such as California, Massachusetts and Vermont, mandate implementation of corporate compliance programs, along with the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. The shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with different compliance and/or reporting requirements in multiple jurisdictions increase the possibility that a healthcare company may run afoul of one or more of the requirements. State and federal authorities have aggressively targeted medical device companies for alleged violations of these anti-fraud statutes, based on improper research or consulting contracts with doctors, certain marketing arrangements that rely on volume-based pricing, off-label marketing schemes and other improper promotional practices. Companies targeted in such prosecutions have paid substantial fines in the hundreds of millions of dollars or more, have been forced to implement extensive corrective action plans, and have often become subject to consent decrees severely restricting the manner in which they conduct their business. If we become the target of such an investigation or prosecution based on our contractual relationships with providers or institutions, or our marketing and promotional practices, we could face similar sanctions which would materially harm our business. To the extent we commence commercial operations overseas, we will be subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and other countries’ anti-corruption/anti-bribery regimes, such as the U.K. Bribery Act. The FCPA prohibits improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Safeguards we implement to discourage improper payments or offers of payments by our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may be ineffective, and violations of the FCPA and similar laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, or other liabilities or proceedings against us, any of which would likely harm our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unsuccessful in our long-term goal of expanding sales of our product offerings outside the United States. Assuming we receive the applicable regulatory approvals, we intend to market our diagnostic products outside the United States through third-party distributors. These distributors may not commit the necessary resources to market and sell our products to meet our expectations. If distributors do not perform adequately or in compliance with applicable laws and regulations in particular geographic areas, or if we are unable to locate 37 Table of Contents distributors in particular geographic areas, our ability to realize revenue growth based on sales outside the United States would be harmed. In order to market our products in the European Union and many other foreign jurisdictions, we, or our distributors or partners, must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements regarding safety and efficacy and governing, among other things, clinical studies and commercial sales and distribution of our products. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The regulatory approval process outside the United States may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval, as well as additional risks. In addition, in many countries outside the United States, a product must be approved for reimbursement before the product can be approved for sale in that country. We may not obtain approvals from regulatory authorities outside the United States on a timely basis, if at all, which could harm our ability to expand into markets outside the United States. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could make an acquisition of our Company, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove the current members of our board and management. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change of control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. Furthermore, these provisions could prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove members of our Board of Directors. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. These provisions: • allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our Board of Directors; • provide that our stockholders may remove our directors only for cause; • establish a classified board of directors, such that not all members of the Board of Directors may be elected at one time; • authorize our Board of Directors to issue without stockholder approval up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock, that, if issued, would dilute our stock ownership and could operate as a “poison pill” to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our Board of Directors; • authorize our Board of Directors to issue without stockholder approval up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, the rights of which will be determined at the discretion of the Board of Directors that, if issued, could operate as a “poison pill” to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our Board of Directors; • require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting or by unanimous written consent; • establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to our Board of Directors or for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; • limit who may call stockholder meetings; and • require the approval of the holders of 80% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote in order to amend certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may, unless certain criteria are met, prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of the voting rights on our common stock, from merging or combining with us for a prescribed period of time. 38 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 