Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Form 10-K in evaluating our company and common stock. Any of the following risks, as well as additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition and could also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We face intense competition in our business. We face various degrees and types of competition in our different businesses. In some cases our products compete directly with those of third party competitors. In other cases, competition at one business, such as for our Weighing and Control Systems segment, may affect the sales of our products that we incorporate in those systems from other segments, such as load cells and strain gages. We have a significant market position in foil resistors and foil strain gages. Foil resistors and foil strain gages are also produced by competitors, principally located in China. We believe that our foil technology products provide superior performance relative to our competitors, but that could change if our competitors succeed in developing and introducing innovative competitive offerings. Also, our foil strain gages compete with other types of strain gages, such as semiconductor strain gages, which we do not manufacture. We believe that other types of strain gages are not as reliable or stable as our foil strain gages, but that could change as the technology for these other products continues to evolve. The ability of these competitors to improve the competitiveness or pricing of their products relative to our offering could adversely affect us. The market for transducer/load cell products is highly fragmented and very competitive. Our load cell modules and systems face competition from numerous other load cell module and systems manufacturers. Competition for modules and systems is most often based on customer relationships, product reliability, technical performance, and the ability to anticipate and satisfy customer needs for specific design configurations. Many other manufacturers have more experience in particular geographic markets and specific applications than we do, and may be better positioned to compete in these areas. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully grow our business in the face of these competitive challenges. Our vertical product integration exposes us to certain risks. Our business organization is focused on vertical product integration. For example, we use our strain gages in our force sensor products and our force sensor business is our largest customer (by volume) for our strain gages. Our weighing and control systems business primarily uses our force sensor products in its systems. We also sell our strain gages and force sensor products to third-party customers. Many of the acquisitions which form the core operations of our business in recent years have been directed towards furthering our vertical integration organization. While we believe this has been and will continue to be a sound business strategy, vertical product integration and the resulting interdependencies of our divisions exposes us to certain risks. As a consequence of our vertical integration, our force sensors business may compete with certain of our customers and potential customers for strain gages while our systems may compete with certain of our customers and potential customer for force sensors, who, for that reason, may elect not to do business with us. Also, acquisitions that we pursue may fail to be successfully integrated with our existing businesses or may otherwise not succeed as we anticipate. Any of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect our company. - 14 - In the past we have grown through successful integration of acquired businesses, but this may not continue. Our long-term historical growth in revenues and net earnings has resulted in large part from our strategy of expansion through acquisitions. We cannot assure that we will identify, have the financial capabilities to acquire, or successfully complete transactions with suitable acquisition candidates in the future. We also cannot assure that acquisitions that we will complete in the future will be successful. Such acquisitions or investments involve a number of risks, including the risks in assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired companies, realizing the value of the acquired assets relative to the price paid, distraction of management from our ongoing businesses and potential product disruptions associated with the sale of the acquired companies’ products. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Future acquisitions could require us to incur or issue additional indebtedness or issue additional equity. If we were to undertake a substantial acquisition for cash, the acquisition would likely need to be financed in part through bank borrowings or the issuance of public or private debt. This acquisition financing would likely decrease our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other credit metrics. Our revolving credit facilities require us to obtain the lenders’ consent for certain additional debt financing and to comply with other covenants including the application of specific financial ratios. We cannot assure that the necessary acquisition financing would be available to us on acceptable terms if and when required. If we were to make an acquisition with equity, the acquisition may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our common stock. We might require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges or opportunities, including the need to develop new offerings or enhance our existing offerings, enhance our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. To remain successful, we must continue to innovate, and our investments in new technologies may not prove successful. Our future operating results depend on our ability to continually develop, introduce and market new and innovative products, to modify existing products, to respond to technological change, and to customize certain products to meet customer requirements. There are numerous risks inherent in this process, including the risks that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market new products and applications in a timely fashion to satisfy customer demands. If this occurs, we could lose customers and experience adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. - 15 - Our success is dependent upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property. We rely on a combination of the protections provided by applicable patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as on confidentiality procedures and other contractual arrangements, to establish and protect our rights in our technology and related materials and information. We enter into agreements with our customers and distributors. These agreements contain confidentiality and non-disclosure provisions, a limited warranty covering our products and indemnification for the customer from infringement actions related to our products. Despite our efforts, it may be possible for others to copy portions of our products, reverse engineer them or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary, all of which could adversely affect our competitive position. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our competitors will not independently develop technology similar to ours. The laws of certain countries in which we manufacture do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. In the Office of the United States Trade Representative (“USTR”) annual "Special 301" Report released on April 30, 2011, the adequacy and effectiveness of intellectual property protection in a number of foreign countries were analyzed. A number of countries in which we manufacture are identified in the report as being on the Priority Watch List. Those countries where particular concern is expressed include China, where the USTR is concerned that China may treat foreign owned intellectual property differently than that owned or developed in China, and India, where the expressed concern was India's weak legal framework and ineffective overall enforcement. Argentina and Indonesia were also identified because of problems in intellectual property enforcement, while Venezuela was cited as having had a deterioration in intellectual property protection. The absence of harmonized intellectual property protection laws and effective enforcement makes it difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent and other intellectual property rights on a worldwide basis. As a result, it is possible for third parties to use our proprietary technology in certain countries without us having the ability to enforce our rights in those countries. The success of our business is highly dependent on maintenance of intellectual property rights. The unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights may increase the cost of protecting these rights or reduce our revenues. We seek to protect trade secrets and our other proprietary technology in part by requiring each of our employees to enter into non-disclosure and intellectual property assignment agreements. In these agreements, the employee agrees to maintain the confidentiality of all of our proprietary information and, subject to certain exceptions, to assign to us all rights in any proprietary information or technology made or contributed by the employee during his or her employment. In general, we do not employ non-compete agreements for our employees although certain executives are subject to non-compete arrangements. These agreements may, however, be breached or be found unenforceable, and we may not have an adequate remedy for any such breach of, or inability to enforce, these agreements. We may initiate, or be subject to, claims or litigation for infringement of proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights, which could result in significant expense to us, cause product shipment delays, require us to enter royalty or licensing agreements and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel from productive tasks, whether or not such litigation were determined in our favor. We may be exposed to product liability claims. While our agreements with our customers and distributors typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential material product liability claims, including appropriate warranty, indemnification, damages waiver and limitation of liability provisions, it is possible that such provisions may not be effective under the laws of some jurisdictions, thus exposing us to substantial liability. Moreover, defending a suit, regardless of its merits, could entail substantial expense and require the time and attention of key management personnel. If product liability claims are brought against us, the costs associated with defending such claims may adversely affect our results of operations and future cash flows. - 16 - We must expend significant resources to obtain design wins without assurance that we will be successful. In many cases, we must initiate communication with our customers, and convince the customer that our products and systems will offer solutions for its business that are technically superior and more cost effective compared to their existing arrangements. To do so we must often expend significant financial and human resources to develop technologically compelling products or systems with no guarantee that they will be adopted by our customers. The non-recurring engineering (“NRE”) costs for product development in these cases could be substantial and may adversely affect our profitability if we are unable to recover these costs. Also, customers will often require a lengthy period of onsite testing before committing to purchase a product or system, during which period we will not receive material revenue from the customer. While a design win for our products and systems may result in a long period of recurring revenue during which we hope to recover our costs, we must often internally finance our development costs over significant time periods. If our products or systems fail to gain acceptance with our customers, we will likely be forced to absorb substantial NRE costs, which could adversely affect our business. The long development times for certain of our products and systems may result in unpredictable fluctuations in revenue and results of operations. Our force sensor products and weighing and control systems often involve long product development cycles, both to develop the product or system and to secure customer acceptance following what may be a lengthy onsite testing period. During product development and testing, we may incur substantial costs without corresponding revenues. If our custom product or system is ultimately accepted by the customer, we may then begin to realize substantial revenues from our development efforts. In particular, our weighing and control systems can be priced for several hundred thousand dollars per unit, so that a contract to acquire one or more units can materially contribute to our revenues during the period or periods that we are permitted to recognize the contract revenues for accounting purposes. The nature of our products and systems may therefore result in substantial fluctuations in our operating results, including revenues and profitability, from period to period, even though there has been no fundamental change in our business or its prospects. This may make it difficult for investors to undertake period-to-period comparisons of our performance. Also, the fluctuating nature of key components of our revenues may limit the visibility of our management regarding performance in future periods and make it more difficult for our management to provide guidance to our investors. We may not have adequate facilities to satisfy future increases in demand for our products. Our business is cyclical and in periods of a rising economy, we may experience intense demand for our products. During such periods, we may have difficulty expanding our manufacturing capacity to satisfy demand. Factors which could limit such expansion include delays in procurement of manufacturing equipment, shortages of skilled personnel, and physical constraints on expansion at our facilities. If we are unable to meet our customers’ requirements and our competitors sufficiently expand production, we could lose customers and/or market share. These losses could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Also, capacity that we add during upturns in the business cycle may result in excess capacity during periods when demand for our products recedes, resulting in inefficient use of capital adversely affecting our business. The nature of the market for our products may render them particularly susceptible to downturns in the economic environment. Our products are designed to replace and provide superior functionality over existing product infrastructure utilized by our customers. Often, it is only after introductory demonstrations by our sales and engineering teams that our customers come to appreciate the advantages of our products and systems and the long-term benefits of their adoption. Market factors, such as the recession that we have recently experienced, may make customers less receptive to adopting new technological solutions at our suggestion; even ones with demonstrated operational and financial advantages. During these periods, customers may defer or even cancel orders for products and systems for which they have previously contracted or given indications of interest. - 17 - Also, since our business is concentrated largely in the industrial sector, we do not benefit from countervailing fluctuations in consumer demand. As a result, our business may be more significantly affected by the consequences of a general economic slowdown than other segments of our industry and may also take longer to recover from the effects of a slowdown. Another sustained slowdown or significant downturn in our global markets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows again. Although emerging markets, notably China and India, experienced strong growth and certain domestic markets showed more robust recoveries in 2011, the global economy remains fragile. Growth rates in certain of our markets began to slow in the second half of 2011, particularly in our European markets where the recovery remains sluggish due to the unwinding of fiscal stimuli, lingering high unemployment, concerns over European sovereign debt issues and the tightening of government budgets. As a result, further disruptions in Europe or in other economies could affect our revenues or liquidity. Continued inflationary pressures in emerging market countries could cause their governments to further tighten credit and raise interest rates, resulting in slowing economic growth. If the global economy, or some of our significant markets, were to undergo a sustained slowdown or another significant downturn, depending upon the length, duration and severity of such a slowdown or downturn, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow would almost certainly be materially adversely affected. Our backlog is subject to customer cancellation. Many of the orders that comprise our backlog may be canceled by our customers without penalty. Our customers, particularly for our foil technology products, often cancel orders when business is weak and inventories are excessive, a situation that we have experienced during periods of economic slowdown. Therefore, we cannot be certain that the amount of our backlog accurately forecasts the level of orders that will ultimately be delivered. Our results of operations could be adversely impacted if customers cancel a material portion of orders in our backlog. The complexity of our sophisticated weighing and control systems may require costly corrections if design flaws are found. Our weighing and control systems combine sophisticated electronic hardware and computer software. We believe that the sophistication of our systems contributes to their competitive advantage over similar products offered by other system integrators. We go to substantial lengths to assure that our system products are free of design flaws when they are delivered to our customers for installation and testing. However, due to the systems’ complexity, design flaws may occur and require correction. If the requisite corrections are substantial or difficult to implement due to the system’s complexity, we may not be able to recover the costs of correction and retesting, with the result that our profit margins on these systems could be substantially reduced, or even negated by losses, and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our results are sensitive to raw material availability, quality, and cost. Although most materials incorporated in our products are available from a number of sources, certain materials are available only from a relatively limited number of suppliers. The materials that are only available from a limited number of sources include certain molding compounds, metal package suppliers, low resistance switches, polyimide film and laminating adhesives. We generally maintain a supply of strategic raw materials for continuity and risk management. Our customers would need significant advance notification to qualify alternative materials, if we had to use them. Alternative suppliers are available worldwide for most of our raw materials, but significant time (between 3 to 12 months) would be required to qualify new suppliers and establish efficient production scheduling. Certain metals used in the manufacture of our products are traded on active markets, and can be subject to significant price volatility. - 18 - Our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if we have difficulty obtaining these raw materials, the quality of available raw materials deteriorates, or there are significant price changes for these raw materials. For periods in which the prices of these raw materials are rising, we may be unable to pass on the increased cost to our customers, which would result in decreased margins for the products in which they are used. For periods in which the prices are declining, we may be required to write down our inventory carrying cost of these raw materials, since we record our inventory at the lower of cost or market. Depending on the extent of the difference between market price and our carrying cost, this write-down could have a material adverse effect on our net earnings. We also may need to record losses for adverse purchase commitments for these materials in periods of declining prices. Our product sales may be adversely affected by changes in product classification levels under various qualification and specification standards. Certain of our products must be qualified or approved under various military and aerospace specifications and other standards. We have qualified certain of our foil resistor products under various military specifications approved and monitored by the DLA, and under certain European military specifications, and various aerospace standards approved by NASA and the ESA. Certain of our force sensor products are approved by the NTEP and OIML. Our on-board weighing systems must meet approved standards to make them legal-for-trade. Qualification and specification levels are based in part upon product failure rate. We must continuously perform tests on our products, and for products that are qualified, the results of these tests must be reported to the qualifying organization. If a product fails to meet the requirements for the applicable classification level, the product’s classification may be suspended or reduced to a lower level. During the time that the classification is suspended or reduced to a lower level, net revenues and earnings attributable to that product may be adversely affected. Our future success is substantially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, managerial, marketing, finance, and administrative personnel. The competitive environment of our business requires us to attract and retain highly qualified personnel to develop technological innovations and bring them to market on a timely basis. Our complex operations also require us to attract and retain highly qualified administrative personnel in functions such as legal, tax, accounting, financial reporting, and treasury. The market for personnel with such qualifications is highly competitive. We have not entered into employment agreements with many of our key personnel. The loss of the services of or the failure to effectively recruit qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could adversely affect our ability to meet our reporting requirements. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. Beginning with the year ended December 31, 2011, we are required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse effect on our stock price. - 19 - Future changes in our environmental liability and compliance obligations may harm our ability to operate or increase costs. Our manufacturing operations, products and/or product packaging are subject to environmental laws and regulations governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances, wastes and certain chemicals used or generated in our manufacturing processes, employee health and safety labeling or other notifications with respect to the content or other aspects of our processes, products or packaging, restrictions on the use of certain materials in or on design aspects of our products or product packaging, and responsibility for disposal of products or product packaging. We establish reserves for specifically identified potential environmental liabilities which we believe are adequate. Nevertheless, new liabilities could arise, and we may have unavoidably inherited certain pre-existing environmental liabilities, generally based on successor liability doctrines. Although we have never been involved in any environmental matter that has had a material adverse impact on our overall operations, there can be no assurance that in connection with any past or future operation, acquisition or otherwise, we will not be obligated to address environmental matters that could have a material adverse impact on our operations. In addition, more stringent environmental regulations may be enacted in the future, and we cannot presently determine the modifications, if any, in our operations that any such future regulations might require, or the cost of compliance with these regulations. The integration of our information technology systems is complex, and any delay or problem with this integration may cause serious disruption or harm to our business. As a result of the spin-off, we had to integrate unrelated information technology systems across our company and transition certain information technology services provided by Vishay Intertechnology to our own systems. While we have substantially completed this effort, the integration and transition is not finished. Many key strategic initiatives of major business functions depend on information technology systems, and if we fail to properly execute or if we miss critical deadlines in the implementation of these initiatives, we could experience disruption and harm to our business, such as adversely affecting our ability to process orders, invoice, report our results, and manage our business. Our two credit facilities subject us to financial and operating restrictions. In each of October 2010 and November 2011, we entered into separate three-year revolving credit agreements with banks which we expect to use for working capital and other purposes. Each credit agreement subjects us to certain restrictions. These restrictions may affect, and in some cases significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to: borrow additional funds; pay dividends or make other distributions; make investments, including capital expenditures; complete acquisitions; engage in transactions with affiliates or subsidiaries; or create liens on our assets. Each credit agreement also requires us to maintain certain financial ratios. If we fail to comply with the covenant restrictions contained in either credit agreement, that failure could result in defaults under both credit agreements that would accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness under the agreements. - 20 - Unexpected events, such as a natural disaster, could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We have manufacturing and other facilities in countries around the world. Unexpected events, including fires or explosions at facilities; natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes; war or terrorist activities; unplanned outages; supply disruptions; and failures of equipment or systems at any of our facilities could adversely affect our results of operation. We have a manufacturing facility in northwest Japan and a sales office in Tokyo. Although these facilities are not located near the epicenter of the March 2011 Sendai earthquake, our Japan operations were affected by the impact of the natural disaster affecting Japan generally. Specifically, we experienced temporary rolling blackouts, decreased access to raw materials and limited ability to ship inventory. If similar conditions were to arise with respect to the Japan facility or other facilities, as a result of a natural disaster or other unexpected event, they may result in customer disruption, physical damage to one or more key operating facilities, the temporary closure of one or more key operating facilities, the temporary disruptions of information systems, and/or an adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in our tax rate or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. In addition, audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in various foreign jurisdictions. Domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and changes in tax laws. Any of these factors may adversely affect our tax rate and decrease our profitability. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by foreign tax authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from our reserves, our future results may include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities. The Obama administration has announced proposals to tax profits of U.S. companies earned abroad. While it is not possible to predict whether any such proposals will be implemented and how they will ultimately impact us, they may adversely impact our results of operations. Risks relating to our operations outside the United States We obtain substantial benefits by operating in Israel, but these benefits may not continue. We have substantial operations in Israel. The low tax rates in Israel applicable to earnings of our operations in that country, compared to the rates in the United States, have the general effect of increasing our net earnings. Any significant increase in the Israeli tax rates could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. There can also be no assurance that in the future the Israeli government will continue to offer new tax incentive programs applicable to us or that, if it does, such programs will provide the same level of benefits we have historically received or that we will continue to be eligible to benefit from them. Also, we have benefited from employment incentive grants made by the Israeli government in the past. There can be no assurance that the Israeli government will continue to offer new grant programs applicable to us, and the lack of such grants may adversely affect the costs of our business in Israel in the future. - 21 - We attempt to improve profitability by operating in countries in which labor costs are low, but the shift of operations to these regions may entail considerable expense. Our strategy is aimed at achieving significant production cost savings through the transfer and expansion of manufacturing operations to and in countries with lower production costs or other incentives, such as Costa Rica, India, Israel, the People’s Republic of China, and the Republic of China (Taiwan). During this process, we may experience under-utilization of certain plants and factories in high-labor-cost regions and capacity constraints in plants and factories located in low-labor-cost regions. Also, we may experience delays in the expected transition from a higher cost location to a lower cost one that result in greater than expected use of the higher cost facility. This transitional utilization may result initially in production inefficiencies and higher costs. These costs include those associated with compensation in connection with workforce reductions and plant closings in the higher-labor-cost regions, and start-up expenses, manufacturing and construction delays, and increased depreciation costs in connection with the initiation or expansion of production in lower-labor-cost regions. In addition, as we implement transfers of certain of our operations we may experience strikes or other types of labor unrest as a result of layoffs or termination of our employees in high-labor-cost countries. In connection with the transfer of manufacturing operations to lower-labor-cost countries, we are also increasing the level of automation in our plants for the purpose of seeking to optimize our capital and labor resources in production, inventory management, quality control, and warehousing. Although we have substantial experience with automation in several of our plants in higher-labor-cost countries, there are risks in seeking to increase the level of automation in plants which previously did not use a significant amount of automation. These risks include the possibility of inefficiencies and higher operating costs in the transition from manual to automated operations, and if the transition extends longer than anticipated, we could suffer product yield inefficiencies, contributing to higher product costs and increasing the time it will take for us to achieve a return on our investment in the capital equipment involved in the automation process. Furthermore, any layoffs or termination of our employees as a result of increased automation may lead to strikes or other types of labor unrest. We are subject to the risks of political, economic, and military instability in countries outside the United States in which we operate. Some of our products are produced in Israel, India, China, and other countries which are particularly subject to risks of political, economic, and military instability. This instability could result in wars, riots, nationalization of industry, currency fluctuations, and labor unrest. These conditions could have an adverse impact on our ability to operate in these regions and, depending on the extent and severity of these conditions, could materially and adversely affect our overall financial condition and operating results. Our business has been in operation in Israel for over 40 years. We have never experienced any material interruption in our operations attributable to these factors, in spite of several Middle East crises, including wars. However, we might be adversely affected if events were to occur in the Middle East that interfered with our operations in Israel. We are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risks which may impact our results of operations. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks, particularly due to market values of transactions in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. Our significant foreign subsidiaries are located in the United Kingdom, Germany, Israel, Japan, and India. We finance our operations in Europe and certain locations in Asia in local currencies. Our operations in Israel and certain locations in Asia are largely financed in U.S. dollars, but these subsidiaries also have significant transactions in local currencies. Our exposure to foreign currency risk is mitigated to the extent that the costs incurred and the revenues earned in a particular currency offset one another. Our exposure to foreign currency risk is more pronounced in situations where, for example, production labor costs are predominantly paid in local currencies while the sales revenue for those products is denominated in U.S. dollars. This situation in particular applies to our operations in Israel, China, and Taiwan. - 22 - From time to time, as part of Vishay Intertechnology, we utilized forward contracts to hedge a portion of projected cash flows from these exposures. As of December 31, 2010, we did not have any outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts. Beginning in 2011, the Company entered into collar options to sell U.S. dollars and purchase Israeli shekels to mitigate exposure to fluctuations in U.S. dollar and Israeli shekel exchange rates. The notional amount of the derivative contracts is approximately 35.6 million shekels and has a fair value of ($0.4) million at December 31, 2011. A net loss on these contracts of $0.6 million was recorded for the year ended December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, we did not have in place any other arrangements to mitigate or hedge against exposures relating to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rate. A change in the mix of the currencies in which we transact our business could have a material effect on results of operations. Furthermore, the timing of cash receipts and disbursements could have a material effect on our results of operations, particularly if there are significant changes in exchange rates in a short period of time. Risks Stemming from the Spin-off Background On October 27, 2009, Vishay Intertechnology announced its intention to spin-off its precision measurement and foil resistor businesses into an independent, publicly traded company to be named Vishay Precision Group, Inc. On July 6, 2010, Vishay Intertechnology completed the spin-off through a tax-free stock dividend to Vishay Intertechnology’s stockholders. Prior to the spin-off, we entered into a series of agreements that, among other things, allocated assets, liabilities and obligations between Vishay Intertechnology and us and required cooperation between the parties to fulfill the terms of the spin-off and specified the conditions to the spin-off. For a more detailed description of these agreements see our information statement filed with the SEC on June 22, 2010 as Exhibit 99.1 to our registration statement on Form 10. We have a short operating history as an independent company upon which you can evaluate our performance and, accordingly, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks that any newly independent company encounters. Prior to July 6, 2010, we operated as part of Vishay Intertechnology. Accordingly, we have a short experience operating as an independent company and performing various corporate functions, including human resources, tax administration, legal (including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and with the periodic reporting obligations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), treasury administration, investor relations, insurance, information technology and telecommunications services, as well as the accounting for many items such as equity compensation, income taxes, derivatives, intangible assets and pensions. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties encountered by companies in the early stages of independent business operations, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Some of our historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of our results as a separate company and therefore may not be reliable as an indicator of our future financial results. Some of our historical financial statements have been created from Vishay Intertechnology’s financial statements using our historical results of operations and historical bases of assets and liabilities as part of Vishay Intertechnology. Accordingly, some of the historical financial information we have included in this document is not necessarily indicative of what our financial position, results of operations and cash flows would have been if we had been a separate, stand-alone entity during the periods presented. - 23 - The historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future. While the historical results of operations for when we were part of Vishay Intertechnology include all costs of Vishay Intertechnology’s precision measurement and foil resistor businesses, those historical costs and expenses do not include all of the costs that would have been or will be incurred by us as an independent company. In addition, we have not made adjustments to that historical financial information to reflect changes, many of which are significant, that have, or will, occur in our cost structure, financing and operations as a result of the spin-off. These changes include potentially increased costs associated with reduced access to resources, economies of scale, and purchasing power. While our combined and consolidated financial statements are calculated on a separate tax return basis, our effective income tax rate as reflected in our historical financial statements also may not be indicative of our future effective income tax rate. Among other things, the rate may be materially impacted by changes in the mix of our earnings from the various jurisdictions in which we operate, the tax characteristics of our earnings, the timing and amount of earnings of foreign subsidiaries that we repatriate to the United States, which may increase our tax expense and taxes paid, the timing and results of any reviews of our income tax filing positions in the jurisdictions in which we transact business, and the expiration of the tax incentives for manufacturing operations in Israel. We agreed to certain restrictions in order to comply with U.S. federal income tax requirements for a tax-free spin-off and may not be able to engage in acquisitions with related parties and other strategic transactions that may otherwise be in our best interests. Current U.S. federal tax law that applies to spin-offs generally creates a presumption that the spin-off would be taxable to Vishay Intertechnology but not to its stockholders if we engage in, or enter into an agreement to engage in, a plan or series of related transactions that would result in the acquisition of a 50% or greater interest (by vote or by value) in our stock ownership during the four-year period beginning on the date that begins two years before the spin-off, unless it is established that the transaction is not pursuant to a plan related to the spin-off. United States Treasury Regulations generally provide that whether an acquisition of our stock and a spin-off are part of a plan is determined based on all of the facts and circumstances, including specific factors listed in the regulations. In addition, the regulations provide certain “safe harbors” for acquisitions of our stock that are not considered to be part of a plan related to the spin-off. There are other restrictions imposed on us under current U.S. federal tax law for spin-offs and with which we will need to comply in order to preserve the favorable tax treatment of the distribution, such as limitations on sales or redemptions of our common stock for cash or other property following the distribution. In the tax matters agreement with Vishay Intertechnology, we agreed that, among other things, we will not take any actions that would result in any tax being imposed on Vishay Intertechnology as a result of the spin-off. Further, for the two-year period following the spin-off, we agreed not to: (1) repurchase any of our stock except in certain circumstances permitted by the IRS guidelines, (2) voluntarily dissolve or liquidate or engage in any merger (except certain cash acquisition mergers), consolidation, or other reorganizations except for certain mergers of our wholly-owned subsidiaries to the extent not inconsistent with the tax-free status of the spin-off, or (3) sell, transfer, or otherwise dispose of more than 50% of our assets, excluding any sales conducted in the ordinary course of business. We are, however, permitted to take certain actions otherwise prohibited by the tax matters agreement if we provide Vishay Intertechnology with an opinion of tax counsel or private letter ruling from the IRS, reasonably acceptable to Vishay Intertechnology, to the effect that these actions will not affect the tax-free nature of the spin-off. These restrictions could substantially limit our strategic and operational flexibility, including our ability to finance our operations by issuing equity securities, make acquisitions using equity securities, repurchase our equity securities, raise money by selling assets, or enter into business combination transactions. - 24 - In the tax matters agreement with Vishay Intertechnology, we agree to indemnify Vishay Intertechnology and its affiliates for any liability for taxes of Vishay Intertechnology resulting from: (1) any action or failure to act by us or any of our affiliates following the completion of the spin-off that would be inconsistent with or prohibit the spin-off from qualifying as a tax-free transaction to Vishay Intertechnology and to you under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, or (2) any action or failure to act by us or any of our affiliates following the completion of the spin-off that would be inconsistent with or cause to be untrue any material information, covenant, or representation made in connection with the private letter ruling obtained by Vishay Intertechnology from the IRS relating to, among other things, the qualification of the spin-off as a tax-free transaction described under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code. For a more detailed discussion, see “Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions – Agreements with Vishay Intertechnology—Tax Matters Agreement” in our information statement filed with the SEC on June 22, 2010 as Exhibit 99.1 to our registration statement on Form 10. Our indemnification obligations to Vishay Intertechnology and its affiliates are not limited in amount or subject to any cap. It is expected that the amount of any such indemnification to Vishay Intertechnology would be substantial. The terms of our spin-off from Vishay Intertechnology may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that you might consider favorable. The terms of our spin-off from Vishay Intertechnology could delay or prevent a change of control that you may favor. An acquisition or issuance of our common stock could trigger the application of Section 355(e) of the Code. Under the tax matters agreement we entered into with Vishay Intertechnology, we are required to indemnify Vishay Intertechnology for the resulting tax in connection with such an acquisition or issuance and this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that you may consider favorable. See our information statement filed with the SEC on June 22, 2010 as Exhibit 99.1 to our registration statement on Form 10 for a more detailed description of these agreements and of these provisions of Delaware law, our charter and bylaws. We use the mark Vishay under license from Vishay Intertechnology, which could result in product and market confusion. We use the mark Vishay as part of our name and in connection with many of our products. Our use of the Vishay mark is governed by an agreement between us and Vishay Intertechnology, giving us a perpetual, royalty-free, worldwide license for the use of the mark. We believe that it is important that we continue the use of the Vishay name in order to benefit from the reputation of the Vishay brand, which was first used in connection with our foil resistors and strain gages when Vishay Intertechnology was founded 50 years ago. There are risks associated with our use of the Vishay mark, however, both for us and for Vishay Intertechnology. Because both we and Vishay Intertechnology use the Vishay mark, confusion could arise in the market regarding the products offered by the two companies, and there could be a misplaced perception of our continuing to be associated with Vishay Intertechnology. Also, any negative publicity associated with one of the two companies in the future could adversely affect the public image of the other. Finally, Vishay Intertechnology will have the right to terminate the license agreement in certain extreme circumstances if we are in material and repeated breach of the terms of the agreement, which would likely have an adverse effect on us and our business. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our smaller size may affect the trading market for our shares. We are considered a “microcap” company and our trading volume is likely to fluctuate. Also, it is possible that there will be less market and institutional interest in our shares, and that we will not attract substantial coverage in the analyst community. As a result, the trading market for our shares may be less liquid, making it more difficult for investors to dispose of their shares at favorable prices, and investors may have less independent information and analysis available to them concerning our company. - 25 - Our stock price could become more volatile and investments could lose value. The market price of our common stock and the number of shares traded each day has experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price for our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: Shortfalls in our expected net revenue, earnings or key performance metrics; Changes in recommendations or estimates by securities analysts; The announcement of new products by us or our competitors; Quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations; A change in our dividend or stock repurchase activities; Developments in our industry or changes in the market for technology stocks; Changes in rules or regulations applicable to our business; and Other factors, including economic instability and changes in political or market conditions. A significant drop in our stock price could expose us to costly and time consuming litigation, which could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, resulting in an adverse effect on our business. The holders of Class B common stock have effective voting control of our company. We have two classes of common stock: common stock and Class B common stock. The holders of common stock are entitled to one vote for each share held, while the holders of Class B common stock are entitled to 10 votes for each share held. The ownership of Class B common stock is highly concentrated, and holders of Class B common stock effectively can cause the election of directors and approve other actions as stockholders without the approval of our other stockholders. As a result of the passing of the former executive chairman and chief technical and business development officer of Vishay Intertechnology and the founder of our technology, Dr. Felix Zandman, Mrs. Ruta Zandman controls the voting of, solely or on a shared basis with Marc Zandman (our Chairman) and Ziv Shoshani (our Chief Executive Officer), approximately 76.8% of our Class B common stock, representing 34.9% of the total voting power of our capital stock. Your percentage ownership of our common stock may be diluted in the future. Your percentage ownership of our common stock may be diluted in the future because of equity awards that we expect will be granted to our directors, officers and employees, as well as due to certain convertible or exchangeable debt instruments, or stock purchase warrants. The Vishay Precision Group, Inc. 2010 Stock Incentive Program provides for the grant of equity-based awards, including restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock options, and other equity-based awards to our directors, officers and other employees, advisors and consultants. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may reduce the likelihood of any unsolicited acquisition proposal or potential change of control that you might consider favorable. Our bylaws contain provisions that could be considered “anti-takeover” provisions because they make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our incumbent board of directors. Under these by-law provisions: stockholders may not change the size of the board of directors or, except in limited circumstances, fill vacancies on the board of directors; stockholders may not call special meetings of stockholders; stockholders must comply with advance notice provisions for nominating directors or presenting other proposals at stockholder meetings; and our Board of Directors may without stockholder approval issue preferred shares and determine their rights and terms, including voting rights, or adopt a stockholder rights plan. These provisions could have the effect of discouraging an unsolicited acquisition proposal or delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be considered favorable by our stockholders. - 26 - Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 