D. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We face securities class actions in the U.S. which may have a material adverse effect on our business. We were named as a defendant in a putative securities class action filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York: Michael Fox v. Camelot Information Systems Inc., et al., Civil Action No. 12 CIV 0086 (filed on January 5, 2012). The complaint in this action also named as defendants our current and former directors and officers, including Yiming Ma, Heidi Chou, Gordon Lau, Ching-Hua Ho, Ajit Bhushan, Shang-Wen Hsiao and Claude Leglise. The complaint also named as defendants Goldman, Sachs (Asia) L.L.C., Goldman, Sachs & Co., Barclays Capital Inc., William Blair & Company, L.L.C, Cowen and Company, LLC and Oppenheimer & Co., Inc., underwriters for our initial public offering in July 2010 and our follow-on offering in December 2010. Plaintiffs allege that defendants made various misstatements and omissions regarding our business practices and financial results in violation of the federal securities laws. Specifically, plaintiffs allege that defendants failed to disclose negative trends in the our business, including those with respect to the our employees and most important customers. Plaintiffs seek to represent a class of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired the our ADSs between July 21, 2010 and September 28, 2011, and/or who acquired shares of our ADSs pursuant to or traceable to our allegedly false and misleading registration statements and prospectuses issued in connection with our initial public offering and follow-on offering. By order dated June 6, 2012, and pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, Judge Gardephe appointed lead plaintiffs and lead counsel in the case. Pursuant to a stipulation executed by the parties to the action, lead plaintiffs filed their consolidated amended complaint on September 6, 2012, and subsequently filed a corrected amended class action complaint on September 28, 2012. Defendants have filed a motion to dismiss the corrected amended class action complaint, which has been briefed by the parties and is currently pending before the court. We believe the complaints that have been made aware of are lack of any merit. However, the confidence of our current or potential investors and customers, as well as our business reputation may be adversely affected. Further, we cannot assure you that there will not be any similar allegations against us in the future. Should we receive any unfavorable judgment against us out of these allegations, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected and our business reputation may also be damaged. 6 Table of Contents We have identified one material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and cannot assure you that such material weakness will be remedied or additional material weakness will not be identified in the future. Our failure to implement or maintain effective control over financial reporting could result in material misstatement in our financial statements which could require us to restate financial statement in the future, or cause us not to be able to provide timely financial information, which may cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on our stock price. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, under such rules, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In connection with management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the period covered by this annual report, our management has identified one material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and has concluded that as of December 31, 2012, our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting were not effective. Our independent registered public accounting firm has express an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012. See “Item 15 — Controls and Procedures.” The material weakness identified was lack of policies and procedures relating to (1) untimely update on the group’s organization chart and related job descriptions, (2) untimely communication of unusual and complex transactions between the operation and finance department, and (3) lack of internal review of certain sales contracts by the legal department. Despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our financial reporting process, we cannot assure you that the material weakness identified in our internal control over financial reporting would be successfully remediated. Further, we cannot assure you that additional weakness in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain existing controls or implement new controls would result in additional material weakness and cause us fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations which in turn could cause our shares to be de-listed or suspended from trading on the NYSE. Further, any such failure could result in material misstatements and adversely affect the results of annual management evaluations regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Any of the foregoing could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our share price or lawsuits being filed against us by our shareholders or otherwise harm our reputation. In addition, we may require more resources and incur more costs than currently expected to remediate our identified material weakness or any additional material weakness that may be identified in the future, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Our business and growth may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our senior management or if we are unable to retain or attract our key technical personnel. Our ability to execute current and future projects and to obtain new customers depends largely on the continued service of our senior management and key technical personnel and our ability to attract, train and motivate additional qualified technical personnel. The loss of any member of our senior management or any key technical personnel may result in our inability to complete our existing projects or obtain new projects and in turn materially and adversely affect our financial performance. In addition, we may be unable to find qualified replacement for departed senior management or key technical personnel in time or at all. In November 2011, our former chief financial officer resigned from his office and Mr. Franklin King was appointed as our interim chief financial officer until a permanent replacement is found and officially named. We are still in the process of locating a qualified and appropriate chief financial officer candidate, however we cannot assure you that the qualified and appropriate candidate will be found in the near future or at all. In January 2013, our former co-president and director, Mr. Qian Zhao, tendered his resignation for personal reasons. 7 Table of Contents Further, if any of our senior management or key technical personnel joins a competitor or starts a competing business, we may lose customers, know-how, key technical professionals and employees. Each of our senior management members and key technical personnel has entered into an employment agreement with us which contains non-competition provisions. However, if any dispute arises between any of our senior management members or key technical personnel and us, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully enforce these provisions. The markets for IT services in China are highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively. The markets for IT services in China are highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. The profiles and identities of our competitors may vary among our service lines and customers. We primarily compete with Chinese IT services firms. We may also compete with foreign IT service providers as well as domestic offshore IT services providers. Some of the firms with which we compete in these markets have significantly greater financial resources and more established market positions than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors have acquired, and may continue to acquire in the future, companies that may enhance their market shares and service offerings. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Our ability to compete may be further limited by the non-compete provisions in the agreements with some of our customers. If we are unable to compete successfully with our existing or new competitors, our financial results may be materially and adversely affected. Our business will be adversely affected if we are not able to anticipate and keep pace with rapid changes in technology or if growth in the use of technology in business by our customers is not as rapid as in the past. The markets for IT services are characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, changing customer preferences and frequent new product and service introductions. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and implement technology services and solutions and anticipate and keep pace with rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry standards and customer preferences. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely basis, and our service or solution offerings may not be successful in the marketplace. For example, if SAP-based Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) systems become obsolete or less accepted among end users, the demand for our services could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, services, solutions and technologies developed by our competitors may make our service or solution offerings uncompetitive, obsolete or force us to reduce prices, thereby adversely affecting our profit margins. Any one of these circumstances could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain and successfully complete customer engagements. Wages for IT professionals in China have increased in recent years and may continue to increase at a higher rate in the future, making us potentially less competitive and less profitable. Historically, wages for comparably skilled technical personnel in the Chinese IT services industry were lower than in developed countries, such as in Japan, the U.S. or Europe. In recent years, wages in the China IT services industry have increased and may continue to increase in the future. In order to attract and retain skilled personnel, we may need to continue to increase the wages of our work force. In addition, under the Regulations on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which became effective on January 1, 2008, employees who have served more than one year for a specific employer are entitled to a paid vacation ranging from 5 to 15 days, depending on length of service. Furthermore, employees who waive such vacation time at the request of employers shall be compensated for three times their normal salaries for each waived vacation day. This mandated paid-vacation regulation, coupled with the trend of increasing wages, may result in increased wages for our services, making us potentially less competitive, and may increase our cost of revenues and operating expenses, resulting in lower profit margins. We depend on a small number of customers to derive a significant portion of our revenues and this dependence is likely to continue. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers. In 2010, 2011 and 2012, approximately 33.7%, 34.1% and 31.5% of our net revenues were derived from our single largest client. In the same periods, approximately 48.2%, 53.4% and 45.7% of our net revenues were derived from our five largest customers. We expect revenues from these customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. If we lose any one of our major customers or any of these customers significantly reduces its volume of business with us, our net revenues and profitability would be substantially reduced. In addition, the volume of work we perform for specific customers may vary from year to year, particularly since we are generally not the exclusive service provider for our customers. Our high customer base concentration may also adversely affect our ability to negotiate unit prices, due to the volume of delivery items with these customers, which may in turn materially and adversely affect our results of operations. For instance, some of our major customers may require us to change the pricing model from time-and-expense contracts to fixed-price contracts, which may increase our risks of collecting service fees from customers and in turn adversely impact our results of operations. See “Item 3. Key Information — D. Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry — We are subject to certain risks relating to our fixed-price contracts.” 8 Table of Contents If our delivery center agreements with IBM are terminated or are not renewed for any reason, our relationship with IBM as well as our overall business, operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. In addition to our then existing business with IBM, in March 2008, we entered into a technical services agreement and a master statement of work, or a master SOW, with IBM to establish a delivery center to deliver enterprise application services exclusively for IBM’s customers. In May 2011, we renewed the technical services agreement and the master SOW with IBM for an additional four years, under which the right for IBM to purchase the delivery center at a price based on the cumulative revenues generated by and net book value of the delivery center has been removed. Our net revenues derived from this delivery center totaled US$36.5 million in 2010, US$47.4 million in 2011 and US$48.6 million in 2012, or 18.9%, 20.9% and 19.1% of our total net revenues, respectively. We expect this delivery center to continue to account for a material percentage of our total net revenues for the foreseeable future. The renewed technical services agreement contains a number of key commercial and legal provisions, including: · Termination. The initial term is four years and can be renewed by IBM for one or more years with substantially the same terms and conditions. The technical services agreement may be terminated at an earlier date upon the occurrence of certain events, including, among others, a change of control, liquidation or bankruptcy of our company, and a failure by us to meet certain service standards. · Non-compete undertaking. We have agreed not to compete with IBM, in the field of SAP consulting services, for any existing or future business opportunity from IBM’s existing customers that is either continual or relating to any services provided by us under the technical services agreement. However, such non-compete undertaking does not apply to our existing customers. Our non-compete undertaking is effective throughout the term of the master SOW and for a period of 18 months following the termination of the master SOW. In light of the materiality of the delivery center to our relationships with IBM and our future operating results, we may face a number of risks and uncertainties to our business. For instance, there is no assurance that (i) our delivery center agreements will not be terminated or will be renewed after the initial term; and (ii) there may be ambiguities in the interpretation of the scope of our non-compete undertaking, particularly in light of our potential overlapping customer base with IBM. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will not enter into a dispute with IBM relating to future customers and projects. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may materially and adversely affect our relationship with IBM, which has historically been our largest customer and strategic account, thereby materially and adversely affecting our overall business, results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 3. Key Information — D. Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry — We depend on a small number of customers to derive a significant portion of our revenues and this dependence is likely to continue.” 9 Table of Contents Our historical outstanding accounts receivable have been relatively high. Inability to collect our accounts receivable on a timely basis, if at all, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Historically, our outstanding billed and unbilled accounts receivable have been relatively high. As of December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, our outstanding billed and unbilled accounts receivable were US$105.7 million, US$135.0 million and US$150.5 million, respectively. Although we conduct credit evaluations of our customers, we generally do not require collateral or other security from our customers. In addition, we have had a relatively high customer concentration. As a result, an extended delay or default in payment relating to a significant account will have a material and adverse effect on the aging schedule and turnover days of our accounts receivable. Our inability to collect our accounts receivable on a timely basis, if at all, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our revenues are highly dependent on customers primarily located in the PRC and certain other regions in Asia-Pacific. Prior to 2006, we derived all of our revenues from the PRC. However, as a result of a number of strategic acquisitions since 2006, we currently also derive a small portion of our revenues from customers in Taiwan and Japan. In 2010, 2011 and 2012, net revenues from the PRC, Taiwan and Japan in aggregate totaled US$190.5 million, US$225.2 million and US$250.4 million, respectively, representing 98.8%, 99.2% and 98.6% of our total net revenues, respectively. Accordingly, our revenues are highly dependent on the Greater China region and Japan, and in particular, on the continued technology spending of our existing and prospective customers in these regions. The growth in technology spending generally decreases in a challenging economic environment. Adverse economic conditions in the regions may cause some customers to reduce or defer their expenditures for IT services. Therefore, a decline in the level of economic activity in the Greater China region and Japan could materially and adversely affect our net revenues and profit margins. We are subject to financial and business risks on completed or future acquisitions. Since 2006, we have completed a number of strategic acquisitions to complement our business. We intend to continue to selectively acquire IT service companies to support our future growth. We are subject to a number of special financial and business risks in connection with our acquisition efforts, including, among other things, diversion of our management’s time, attention, and resources, decreased utilization during the integration process, loss of key acquired personnel, difficulties in integrating diverse corporate cultures, increased costs to improve or coordinate managerial, operational, financial, and administrative systems including dilutive issuances of equity securities, including convertible securities, assumption of legal liabilities, potential write-offs related to the impairment of goodwill and certain long term assets and additional conflicts of interest. In addition, we may be unable to manage an acquired entity profitably or successfully integrate its operations with our own. Any of these factors may adversely affect the growth of our business and results of operations. Although we conduct due diligence in connection with our acquisitions, we may not be aware of all the risks associated with acquired businesses. Any discovery of adverse information concerning the acquired businesses since the completion of the acquisitions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we may be entitled to seek indemnification in certain circumstances, successfully asserting indemnification or enforcing such indemnification could be costly and time-consuming or may not be successful at all. In addition, acquired businesses may have significant lower gross margins than our existing business, which may apply downward pressure on our overall gross margin in the future. Furthermore, acquired companies may not perform to our expectations for various reasons, including legislative or regulatory changes that affect the products or services in which the acquired companies specialize, and the loss of key customers and personnel. If we are unable to realize the benefits envisioned for such acquisitions, our overall profitability and growth plans may be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Our business is sensitive to global economic conditions. A severe or prolonged downturn in the global or specifically the Chinese economy could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial condition. The global financial markets experienced significant disruptions in 2008 and the United States, Europe and other economies went into recession. The recovery from the lows of 2008 and 2009 was uneven and is facing new challenges, including the escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis since 2011 and the slowdown of the Chinese economy in 2012. It is unclear whether the European sovereign debt crisis will be contained and whether the Chinese economy will resume its high growth rate. There is considerable uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies that have been adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world’s leading economies, including China’s. There have also been concerns over unrest in the Middle East and Africa, which have resulted in volatility in oil and other markets, and over the possibility of a war involving Iran and North Korea. There have also been concerns about the economic effect of the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis in Japan. Further, the increasing tensions in the relationship between China and Japan have caused significant fluctuations in the conversion rate of RMB to Japanese Yen and badly impacted our Japanese business as well. As of December 31, 2012, we recognized US$1.3 million exchange loss due to significant exchange rate fluctuations. If the relationship between China and Japan do not improve in the near term, we cannot assure you that our Japanese business will not be adversely affected. Economic conditions in China are sensitive to global economic conditions. Any prolonged slowdown in the global or specifically the Chinese economy may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and continued turbulence in the international markets may adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. For example, our customers may decrease or delay the use of our services, while we may have difficulty expanding our customer base in time, or at all, to offset the impact of decreased use of our services by our existing customers. In addition, we could have difficulty collecting payments from our customers in time, or at all. We incurred increased costs as a result of being a public company, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional future costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, NYSE rules, are creating uncertainty for companies like ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such governance standards. In particular, compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal control over financial reporting requires the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources and external auditor’s independent assessment of the internal control over financial reporting. We expect these and other rules and regulations applicable to public companies to increase our accounting, legal and financial compliance costs and to make certain corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. We and our independent registered public accounting firm identified one material weakness. Following the identification of the material weakness, we have taken measures and plan to continue to take measures to remedy this weakness. See “Item 15. — Controls and Procedures”. However, the implementation of these measures may not fully address the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and therefore we may not be able to conclude that they have been fully remedied. In addition, it may become more expensive or more difficult for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Further, our board members, chief executive officer, and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with their performance of duties and our SEC reporting obligations. As a result, we may face difficulties attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If we fail to comply with new or changed laws or regulations, our business and reputation may be harmed. 11 Table of Contents Our growth prospects may be adversely affected if the market for our services and the industries that we service fail to grow as expected. Our operations are divided into two service lines: enterprise application services and Financial industry IT service. Our enterprise application services business primarily focuses on ERP for large-scale companies and customized solutions services. If the demand for ERP services in China experiences lower-than-expected growth, or at all, our business and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Our Financial industry IT services business primarily serves banks and insurance companies in PRC and Taiwan, where the Financial services industry is extensively regulated. Accordingly, any significant regulatory changes in the industry may affect demand for our services. In addition, any adverse development in the Financial services IT industry in PRC or Taiwan, whether due to a downturn in the economy or otherwise, may lead to reduced procurement budget of our financial institution customers, which may in turn lead to lower demand for our services and thereby adversely affect our business and growth prospects. Most of our engagements with customers are singular in nature and do not necessarily provide for subsequent engagements. Our customers generally retain us on an engagement-by-engagement basis in connection with specific projects, rather than on a recurring basis under long-term contracts. Although a substantial majority of our revenue is generated from repeat business, which we define as revenue from a customer who also contributed to our revenue during the prior year, our engagements with our customers are typically for projects that are singular in nature. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will get subsequent engagements with any of our current customers. In addition, in order to expand our business, we may need to continue to expand our sales and marketing group, which would increase our expenses but may not necessarily result in a substantial increase in business. If we are unable to generate a substantial number of new engagements for projects on a continual basis, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Many contracts with our customers generally can be terminated without cause and with little or no notice or penalty, which could negatively impact our revenue and profitability. We often provide services to end customers through international IT service providers. In these cases, our contracts are signed with these service providers rather than with our end customers. A number of our contracts with international IT service providers can be terminated without cause, without any notice and without termination-related penalties. Historically, we have not experienced any terminations of any significant contracts. In addition, such contracts can be terminated immediately upon the termination of the international IT service providers’ contracts with the end customers under circumstances beyond our control. As a result, our revenue-generating engagements with many customers are not predictable and a high level of net revenues in one period is not necessarily predictive of continued high levels of net revenues in future periods. Our business depends on the decisions and actions of our customers, and a number of factors relating to our customers beyond our control might result in the termination of a project or the loss of a customer, including financial difficulties; a change in strategic priorities, reduced IT spending and a change in outsourcing strategy by moving more work to in-house IT departments or to our competitors. We are subject to certain risks relating to our fixed-price contracts. A significant portion of our customer contracts are on a fixed-price basis. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with estimating, planning and performing fixed-price, fixed-timeframe projects, and we bear the risk of cost overruns, completion delays and wage inflation in connection with these projects. If we fail to accurately estimate the resources and time required for a future project, or future rates of wage inflation, or if we fail to complete our contractual obligations within the contracted timeframe, our profitability may suffer. In addition, a number of our fixed-price contracts contain pricing terms that condition a portion of the payment of fees by the customer on our ability to meet defined performance goals, service levels and completion schedules set forth in the contracts. We may fail to meet these goals or customer expectations in such contracts or we may have disagreement with our customers on whether we have met the defined performance goals, any of which may result in the delay of getting our service fees and our revenues may be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents We may be liable to our customers for damages caused by violation of intellectual property rights, breach of confidentiality obligations, system failures, errors or unsatisfactory performance of services, and our insurance policies may not be sufficient to cover these damages. We often have access to, and are required to collect and store, sensitive or confidential customer information. Many of our customer agreements do not limit our potential liability for breaches of confidentiality. If any person, including any of our employees, penetrates our network security or misappropriates sensitive or confidential customer information, we could be subject to significant liability from our customers or from our customers’ customers for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions or privacy laws. The protection of the intellectual property rights and other confidential information of our customers are particularly important for us since our operation is mainly based in China. Historically, protection of intellectual property rights and enforcement of intellectual property actions in China has not been as effective as in more developed countries such as the United States. Despite measures we take to protect the intellectual property and other confidential information of our customers, unauthorized parties, including our employees and sub-contractors, may attempt to misappropriate certain intellectual property rights that are proprietary to our customers or otherwise breach our customers’ confidences. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer information or a violation of intellectual property rights may subject us to liabilities, whether through employee misconduct, breach of our computer systems, systems failure or otherwise, damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers. Many of our contracts involve projects that are critical to the operations of our customers’ businesses, and provide benefits to our customers that may be difficult to quantify. Any failure in a customer’s system or any breach of security could result in a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for such failure. Furthermore, any errors by our employees in the performance of services for a customer, or poor execution of such services, could result in a customer terminating our engagement and seeking damages from us. Although we attempt to limit our contractual liability for consequential damages in rendering our services, these limitations on liability may be unenforceable in some cases, or may be insufficient to protect us from liability for damages. We do not have insurance coverage against potential losses or claims with respect to the IT services we provide. We do not maintain general liability insurance coverage, such as coverage for errors or omissions. While we believe that our practice is in line with the general practice in the IT services industry, there may be instances when we will have to internalize losses, damages and liabilities because of the lack of insurance coverage, which may in turn adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may face intellectual property infringement or indemnity claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend. If we fail to defend ourselves against such claims, we may lose significant intellectual property rights and may be unable to continue providing our existing services. It is critical that we use and develop our technology and services without infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties, including patents, copyrights, trade secrets and trademarks. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business. A successful infringement or indemnity claim against us, whether with or without merit, could, among others things, require us to pay substantial damages, develop non-infringing technology, re-brand our name or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and cease to make, license or use products that have infringed a third party’s intellectual property rights. Protracted litigation could also result in existing or potential clients deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our services until resolution of such litigation, or could require us to indemnify our clients against infringement claims in certain instances. In addition, we may be unaware of intellectual property registrations or applications relating to our services that may give rise to potential infringement claims against us. Parties making infringement or indemnity claims may be able to obtain an injunction to prevent us from delivering our services or using technology containing the allegedly infringing intellectual property. Any intellectual property litigation could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Our financial results could suffer if we are unable to achieve or maintain the productivity and utilization of our professionals. Our profitability depends to a large extent on the productivity and utilization of our professionals. Productivity and utilization of our professionals are affected by a number of factors, including, among other things, the volume of customer engagements, the timing of commencement, completion and termination of the engagements, our ability to transit our professionals efficiently from completed engagements to new engagements, the hiring of additional professionals, unanticipated changes in the scope of customer engagements, our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriate number of professionals, billing rates of our professionals and conditions affecting the industries in which we practice as well as general economic conditions. Any of the factors above may result in low productivity and utilization of our employees and materially and adversely affect our results of operations and employee morale. If we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate overall productivity and utilization of our professionals, our financial results could materially suffer. Any inability to manage our expansion could disrupt our business, undermine our competitive position and reduce our profitability. We have expanded rapidly, especially with respect to our head count and corporate organization, in recent years as a result of the major acquisitions both within China and elsewhere we undertook. For instance, the total number of our IT professionals increased from 1,757 as of December 31, 2008 to 5,343 as of December 31, 2012. Our expansion may place significant strain on our management and other resources. Specifically, we will need to continue to develop and improve our operational, financial and other internal controls, both in China and elsewhere. Continued expansion imposes challenges on us in: · recruiting, training and retaining sufficient skilled technical, marketing and management personnel; · adhering to our high quality and process execution standards; · preserving our culture, values and entrepreneurial environment; · developing and improving our internal administrative infrastructure, particularly our financial, operational, communications and other internal systems; and · maintaining high levels of customer satisfaction. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in managing such risks and our failure to do so may disrupt our business, undermine our competitive position and reduce our profitability. We may be unsuccessful in identifying and acquiring suitable acquisition candidates, which could adversely affect our growth. Historically, we have expanded our business and acquired additional customers through strategic acquisitions. We intend to continue to selectively acquire high-quality IT services companies to support our future growth. However, we may not be able to identify suitable future acquisition candidates. Even if we identify suitable candidates, we may be unable to complete an acquisition on terms commercially acceptable to us. Moreover, competition for future acquisition opportunities in our markets could increase the price we pay for businesses we acquire and could reduce the number of potential acquisition targets. If we fail to identify appropriate candidates or complete desired acquisitions, we may not be able to implement our growth strategies effectively or efficiently. In addition, the expenses we incur in evaluating and pursuing acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Any of these factors may materially and adversely affect the growth of our business and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Any significant failure in our information technology systems could subject us to contractual liabilities to our customers, harm our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations. Our business and operations are highly dependent on the ability of our information technology systems to timely process various transactions across different markets and solutions. The proper functioning of our financial control, accounting, customer service and other data processing systems, together with the communication systems between our various subsidiaries and delivery centers is critical to our business and our competitiveness. Our business activities may be materially disrupted in the event of a partial or complete failure of any of these primary information technology or communication systems, which could be caused by, among other things, software malfunction, computer virus attacks, conversion errors due to system upgrading, damage from fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry or other events beyond our control. We may be liable to our customers for breach of contract for interruptions in service. Due to the numerous variables surrounding system disruptions, the extent or amount of any potential liability cannot be predicted. Moreover, actual or perceived concerns that our systems may be vulnerable to disruptions or unauthorized entry may deter customers from using our services. Fluctuation in currencies may materially and adversely affect our business. A significant portion of our revenues and assets and liabilities are denominated in currencies other than the Renminbi such as Japanese Yen, the New Taiwan dollar, and the U.S. dollar. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Japanese Yen and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, is based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China. The PRC government allowed the Renminbi to appreciate by more than 20% against the U.S. dollars between July 2005 and July 2008. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation halted and the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. As a consequence, the Renminbi fluctuated significantly during that period against other freely traded currencies, in tandem with the U.S. dollar. In June 2010, the PRC government announced that its plan to increase the flexibility of Renminbi exchange rate. Since that time, the Renminbi has gradually appreciated against the U.S. dollar, though there have been brief periods when the U.S. dollar appreciated against the Renminbi. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a substantial liberalization of its currency policy, which could result in greater fluctuation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for capital expenditures and working capital and other business purposes, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we would receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs, strategic acquisitions or investments or other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. We expect that a material portion of our revenues will continue to be generated in currencies other than the Renminbi, including Japanese Yen, the New Taiwan dollar, and the U.S. dollar, for the foreseeable future and that a substantial majority of our expenses, including personnel costs, as well as operating expenditures, will continue to be denominated in Renminbi. Consequently, the results of our operations may be adversely affected as Renminbi appreciates against the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies. In addition, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in U.S. dollar terms. As very limited types of hedging transactions are available in the PRC to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations, we have not entered into any such hedging transactions. Accordingly, we cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations and may incur net foreign exchange losses in the future. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currencies. See “Item 3. Key Information — D. Risk Factors — Risks Related to Doing Business in China — PRC regulations on currency exchange and foreign investment may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively and may delay or prevent us from making loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries.” We face risks and uncertainties relating to our international operations. Outside of the PRC, we have operations in a number of overseas locations such as Japan and Taiwan. Our international operations carry additional financial and business risks, including unexpected changes in the political relationship among countries, such as the escalating tension between China and Japan that may affect our financial performance, greater difficulties in managing and staffing foreign operations, cultural differences that may result in lower utilization, currency fluctuations that could adversely affect our financial position and operating results, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, longer sales cycles, restrictions on the repatriation of earnings, difficulties in enforcing judgments across multiple jurisdictions, and potentially adverse tax consequences, such as trapped foreign losses. If our revenues derived from international operations increase relative to our total net revenues, these factors could have a more pronounced effect on our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Several of our subsidiaries are incorporated in Taiwan. Taiwan has a unique international political status given that Taiwan and the Chinese mainland have been separately governed since 1949. Differences in the interpretation of the status of Taiwan between Taiwan and the PRC have given rise to continuous political debates which in turn have, from time to time, affected the political status of Taiwan. Although significant economic and cultural relations between Taiwan and the PRC have been established during recent years, the PRC has refused to renounce the possibility that it may in the future forcefully gain control of Taiwan. Changes in the relations between Taiwan and the PRC may have an adverse effect on Taiwan’s economy. We cannot be assured that present tensions will not be exacerbated, which could have an adverse impact on Taiwan’s economy and, in turn, an adverse impact, our business, operations and financial condition. You should not place undue reliance on our financial guidance, nor should you rely on our quarterly operating results as an indication of our future performance, because our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could be caused by various factors, including but not limited to, our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers, our capacity to keep pace with rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry standards and customer expectations; decline in demand for our IT service from our customers; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the expansion of our business, a shortfall in our revenues relative to our forecasts and a decline in our operating results due to our inability to adjust our spending quickly; decreases in earnings from equity investments; impairment of our equity investments; lower interest income resulting from decrease in interest yield and cash balance; and general economic conditions and economic conditions specific to Greater China region and Japan. As a result of these and other factors, you should not place undue reliance on our financial guidance, nor should you rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as indicators of likely future performance. Our quarterly revenue guidance is our best estimate at the time we provide guidance. Our operating results may be below our expectations or the expectations of public market analysts and investors in one or more future quarters. If that occurs, the trading price of our ADSs could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Our corporate actions are substantially influenced by our principal shareholders, who can cause us to take actions in ways with which you may not agree. As of March 31, 2013, our largest shareholders included our founders, Mr. Yiming Ma and Ms. Heidi Chou, each of whom owns approximately 8.4% and 8.0% of our outstanding ordinary shares and voting power. Mr. Yiming Ma and Ms. Heidi Chou are husband and wife. Mr. Yiming Ma and Ms. Heidi Chou acting individually or as a group could exert substantial influence over matters such as electing directors and approving acquisitions, mergers or other business combination transactions. Any concentration of ownership and voting power, including the concentration of ownership and voting power resulted from the relationship between Mr. Yiming Ma and Ms. Heidi Chou, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. We have granted, and may continue to grant employee stock options under our equity incentive plan, which may result in increased share-based compensation expenses. We have adopted the equity incentive plan on June 26, 2006 (the “2006 Equity Incentive Plan”). As of March 31, 2013, options to purchase a total of 21,287,820 ordinary shares of our company were outstanding under the 2006 Equity Incentive Plan. For the year 2010, 2011 and 2012, we recorded US$2.9 million, US$19.4 million and US$4.4 million, respectively, in share-based compensation expenses. As of December 31, 2012, we had US$1.9 million unrecognized share-based compensation expenses relating to share options, which are expected to be recognized over a weighted average vesting period of 1.08 years . We believe the granting of share options is of significant importance to our ability to attract and retain key personnel and employees, and we may continue to grant share options to employees and other eligible participants or adopt other equity incentive plans in the future. As a result, our expenses associated with share-based compensation may increase, which may have an adverse effect on our result of operations. In March 2011, in order to retain key personnel under then-current market conditions, we reduced the exercise price of all of our outstanding options granted under our 2006 Equity Incentive Plan. In December 2012, for the same reason, we reduced the exercise price of all the outstanding options we granted during January 1, 2006 and December 31, 2010 under the 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (“Option Repricing”). In 2011 and 2012, respectively, we incurred incremental share-based compensation expenses due to the Option Repricing in the amount of US$14 million and US$1.4 million, respectively. As a result of the Share Repricing in December 2012, the exercise price of all of our relevant outstanding options was reduced to the par value of our ordinary shares, which is equal to US$0 per share. As the trading price of our ADSs fluctuates, we cannot assure you that we will not continue to reduce the exercise price of our outstanding options that have an exercise price higher than the par value of our ordinary shares. Should we reduce the exercise price of the outstanding options, our share-based compensation expenses will be increased and our operating results will be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to, and we may rely on exemptions from certain NYSE corporate governance standards applicable to U.S. issuers, including the requirements that a majority of an issuer’s directors consist of independent directors. This may afford less protection to our holders of ordinary shares and ADSs. Section 303A of the Corporate Governance Rules of the New York Stock Exchange requires listed companies to have, among other things, a majority of its board members be independent and a nominating and corporate governance committee consisting solely of independent directors. As a foreign private issuer, however, we are permitted to follow home country practice in lieu of the above requirements. The corporate governance practice in our home country, the British Virgin Islands, does not require a majority of our board to consist of independent directors or the implementation of a nominating and corporate governance committee. Although we currently comply with NYSE requirements with respect to the composition of the board, we may rely on the foreign private issuer exemption to the extent that a majority of our board of directors are not consisting of independent directors, where it is a possibility that fewer board members will be exercising independent judgment and the level of board oversight on the management of our company may decrease as a result. We may be subject to significant fines, penalties and/or prosecution because our Hong Kong operations prior to November 5, 2010 were not compliant with certain local registration and/or licensing requirements as well as other Hong Kong laws and regulations. In 2006, we initially acquired our Hong Kong operations, or Our Previous HK Operations, through Camelot BVI and Triumph Consulting & Service Co., Ltd. and its affiliates, or Triumph, which are companies limited by shares incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and which became the two partners of Our Previous HK Operations. Under applicable Hong Kong law, Camelot BVI and Triumph were deemed to have established a place of business and carried on a business in Hong Kong since their acquisitions of Our Previous HK Operations. Therefore, both were required to obtain business registration certificates from the Business Registration Office of the Hong Kong government and to be registered with the Companies Registry of the Hong Kong government within one month of their acquisitions of Our Previous HK Operations. However, neither Camelot BVI nor Triumph obtained such certificates nor did they undertake such registration. Accordingly, Our Previous HK Operations and, in turn, Camelot BVI and Triumph were not in compliance with the registration and/or licensing requirements in Hong Kong. As a result of such non-compliance, each of Camelot BVI and Triumph, as well as the officers or agents of each of Camelot BVI and Triumph who authorized such non-compliance, face a maximum one-time fine of US$6,800 (HK$53,000) and a daily fine of US$90 (HK$700) for each day of non-compliance, or an aggregate total of approximately US$264,000 up to November 5, 2010. As of June 3, 2011, there has been no prosecution initiated by the relevant authorities. We are unable to reasonably estimate the actual amount that we may have to pay if the authorities were to become aware of the non-compliance and were to commence proceedings. In addition, as an employer, Our Previous HK Operations were required to comply with legal obligations with regard to mandatory provident funds and compensation insurance for its employees under the Mandatory Provident Fund Schemes Ordinance (Cap. 485), or MPFSO, and under the Employees’ Compensation Ordinance (Cap. 282), or ECO, of the Hong Kong laws, respectively. Our Previous HK Operations were not compliant with certain provisions of the MPFSO for a duration of approximately 10 months between 2006 and 2007 by failing to ensure, in relation to one employee at the time that such employee becomes a member of a registered mandatory provident fund scheme and to make and deduct the respective employer and employee mandatory provident fund contributions in a total amount of HK$20,000 to the employee’s account of such scheme. Our Previous Hong Kong Operations were also not compliant with certain provisions of the ECO by failing to take out worker’s compensation insurance in relation to the said one employee. As a result of the foregoing, Our Previous HK Operations may be subject to fines, penalties and/or prosecutions under local laws and regulations. In recent enforcement cases under the MPFSO, defaulting employer(s) have been ordered to repay all unpaid contributions, and a surcharge or a penalty of the higher of HK$5,000 or 5% of the total unpaid amount. Our Previous HK Operations have made these default contributions into the relevant employee’s mandatory provident fund scheme account and has been in compliance with its legal obligations under the MPFSO since October 2007. Furthermore, with respect to the failure to take out compensation insurance, any fines, penalties and/or prosecutions to which our Hong Kong operations may be subject, may include, but not be limited to, facing a maximum fine of US$13,000 (HK$100,000). 17 Table of Contents In June 2010, we transferred all of our shares in Our Previous HK Operations to third party individuals and as a result of such transfer, we no longer have any shareholder rights, duties or liabilities in Our Previous HK Operations. Since November 5, 2010, our business in Hong Kong has been transferred and conducted through Kings Consulting Services Ltd, or Kings, a company which is limited by shares and incorporated in Hong Kong and which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Camelot BVI. However, the risk remains that the buyers of Our Previous HK Operations may either become unwilling or, through liquidation or other events, unable to assume any potential liabilities, if any, related to Our Previous HK Operations, in which case we may be held liable for any liabilities related to Our Previous HK Operations. Our computer networks may be vulnerable to security risks that could disrupt our services and adversely affect our results of operations. Our computer networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security problems caused by unauthorized access to, or improper use of, systems by third parties or employees. A hacker who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations. Computer attacks or disruptions may jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through computer systems of our customers. Actual or perceived concerns that our system may be vulnerable to such attacks or disruptions may deter consumer from using our solutions or services. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could materially and adversely affect the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our services and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. A significant majority of our operations are conducted in China and a significant majority of our net revenues are derived from customers in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. Since the late 1970s, the PRC government has been reforming the economic system in China. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth. However, we cannot predict the future direction of economic reforms or the effects such measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. Furthermore, while the economy of China has experienced significant growth in the past thirty years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. Any adverse change in the economic conditions in China, in policies of the PRC government or in laws and regulations in China, could materially and adversely affect the overall economic growth of China and market demand for our IT services. Such changes could adversely affect our businesses, lead to reduction in demand for our services and adversely affect our results of operations. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could materially and adversely affect us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our subsidiaries in China. Our subsidiaries in China are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises and Sino-foreign equity joint ventures. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have retroactive effects. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until sometime after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 18 Table of Contents PRC regulations on currency exchange and foreign investment may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively and may delay or prevent us from making loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated to foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. As an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiaries, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries. However, any loans from our offshore holding company to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC regulations. For example, loans by us to our subsidiaries in China, which are foreign-invested enterprises, to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits, usually the balance between the total investment amount and the registered capital contribution, and must be registered with the SAFE or its local counterparts. We may also decide to finance our subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM, or its local counterparts. Also, on August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of the Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign Invested Enterprises, or Circular 142, regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested enterprise of foreign currency registered capital into Renmibi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. SAFE Circular 142 provides that the Renminbi capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign-invested enterprise may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the Renminbi capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign-invested company. The use of such Renminbi capital may not be altered without SAFE approval, and such Renminbi capital may not in any case be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Violations of Circular 142 could result in severe monetary or other penalties. Moreover, SAFE promulgated a notice, known as Circular 59 in November 2010, which requires that government authorities to closely examine the authenticity of settlement of net proceeds from offshore offerings and that net proceeds be settled in the manner described in the offering documents. SAFE also promulgated a notice known as Circular 45 in November 2011, which, among other things, restricts a foreign-invested enterprise from using RMB converted from its registered capital to provide entrusted loans or repay entrusted loans between non-financial enterprises. Violations of these circulars may result in severe penalties, including significant fines. In light of the various requirements imposed by PRC regulations on loans to and direct investment in PRC entities by offshore holding companies, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the necessary government registrations or obtain these government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future capital contributions by us to our subsidiaries. If we fail to timely receive such approvals or complete the necessary government registrations, our ability to capitalize our PRC operations may be adversely affected, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. These limitations on the free flow of funds between us and our PRC companies could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and re-allocate funds among our PRC companies on a timely basis. Moreover, according to a circular jointly issued by the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation on September 19, 2008, if the debt-to-equity ratio of a non-financial enterprise exceeds two-to-one, the interest expenses accrued from the exceeded debt may not be deducted before taxation unless the shareholder loan in question can meet certain conditions. Although there is uncertainty at this time as to how the circular will be interpreted and implemented, such circular may have a negative impact on our PRC subsidiaries’ abilities to obtain loans from its shareholders. 19 Table of Contents The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments or financial incentives currently available to us in the PRC or imposition of any additional PRC taxes on us could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. China passed a new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementing rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law significantly curtails tax incentives granted to foreign-invested enterprises under the Foreign Invested Enterprise Income Tax Law. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, however, (i) reduces the statutory rate of enterprise income tax from 33% to 25%, (ii) permits companies established before March 16, 2007 to continue to enjoy their existing tax incentives, adjusted by certain transitional phase-out rules promulgated by State Council on December 26, 2007, and (iii) introduces new tax incentives, subject to various qualification criteria. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementing rules permit certain “high-technology enterprises” which hold independent ownership of core intellectual property and simultaneously meet a list of other criteria, financial or non-financial, as stipulated in the implementation rules of the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, to enjoy a reduced 15% enterprise income tax rate subject to certain new qualification criteria. Certain of our subsidiaries have been recognized by the local provincial level Municipal Science and Technology Commission, Finance Bureau, and State and Local Tax Bureaus as “high and new technology enterprises” and were further registered with the local tax authorities to be eligible to the reduced 15% enterprise income tax rate. The continued qualification of a “high and new technology enterprise” will be subject to annual evaluation and a three-year review by the relevant government authority in China. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries were entitled to preferential tax treatments due to other qualifications obtained from local governmental authorities such as “Manufacturing Foreign-Invested Enterprise” and “Software Enterprise”. Preferential tax treatments granted to our subsidiaries by the local governmental authorities are subject to review and may be adjusted or revoked at any time. The discontinuation of any preferential tax treatments currently available to us may cause our effective tax rate to increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current effective tax rate in the future. We have also in the past been granted certain governmental financial subsidies. Government agencies may decide to reduce or eliminate subsidies at any time. We cannot assure you of the continued availability of the government incentives and subsidies currently enjoyed by some of our PRC subsidiaries. The discontinuation of these governmental incentives and subsidies could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our global income and the dividends we may receive from our PRC subsidiaries may be subject to PRC tax under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementing rules, both became effective from January 1, 2008, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and will be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its global income. The implementation rules define the term “de facto management bodies” as “establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. of an enterprise.” The State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Offshore Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or Circular 82, on April 22, 2009. Circular 82 provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a Chinese-controlled offshore-incorporated enterprise is located in China. In addition, the SAT issued a bulletin on August 3, 2011 to provide more guidance on the implementation of the above circular with an effective date to be September 1, 2011. The bulletin made clarification in the areas of resident status determination, post-determination administration, as well as competent tax authorities. It also specifies that when provided with a copy of Chinese tax resident determination certificate from a resident Chinese controlled offshore incorporated enterprise, the payer should not withhold 10% income tax when paying the Chinese-sourced dividends, interest, royalties, etc. to the Chinese controlled offshore incorporated enterprise. Although both the circular and the bulletin only apply to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises and not those by PRC individuals or foreigners, like our company, the determination criteria set forth in the circular and administration clarification made in the bulletin may reflect the SAT’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax residency status of offshore enterprises and the administration measures should be implemented, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC individuals. While we do not believe we should be considered a resident enterprise, if the PRC authorities were to subsequently determine that we should be so treated, a 25% enterprise income tax on our global income could significantly increase our tax burden and materially and adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. Pursuant to the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, dividends generated after January 1, 2008 and payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its foreign investors will be subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. We are a British Virgin Islands holding company and substantially all of our income may come from dividends from our PRC subsidiaries. To the extent these dividends are subject to withholding tax, the amount of fund available to us to meet our cash requirements, including the payment of dividends to our shareholders and ADS holders, will be reduced. 20 Table of Contents In addition, because there remains uncertainty regarding the interpretation and implementation of the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules, it is uncertain whether, if we are regarded as a PRC resident enterprise, dividends we pay with respect to our ordinary shares or ADSs, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. If we are required under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our non-PRC corporate shareholders and ADS holders, or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, your investment in our ADSs or ordinary shares may be materially and adversely affected. We may rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our operating subsidiaries to fund cash and financing requirements, and limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we may rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our operating subsidiaries for our cash and financing requirements, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, service any debt we may incur and pay our operating expenses. If any of our operating subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Furthermore, relevant PRC laws and regulations permit payments of dividends by our operating subsidiaries only out of their respective retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, we may fail to make certain PRC government filings on a timely basis in connection with our acquisitions, which may also restrict the ability of these acquired entities to make dividend payments to our holding company. Under PRC laws and regulations, our operating subsidiaries are required to set aside 10% of their respective after-tax profits each year to fund a statutory surplus reserve. This reserve is not distributable as dividends until the accumulated amount of such reserve has exceeded 50% of their respective registered capital. Although the statutory reserves can be used, among other ways, to increase the registered capital and eliminate future losses in excess of retained earnings of the respective companies, the reserve funds are not distributable as cash dividends except in the event of liquidation. As a result of these PRC laws and regulations, our operating subsidiaries are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their respective net assets to us in the form of dividends. Limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. If we become directly subject to the recent scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity involving U.S.-listed Chinese companies, we may have to expend significant resources to investigate and resolve the matter which could harm our business operations, stock price and reputation and could result in a loss of your investment in our stock, especially if such matter cannot be addressed and resolved favorably. Recently, U.S. public companies that have substantially all of their operations in China, particularly companies which have completed so-called reverse merger transactions, have been the subject of intense scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity by investors, financial commentators and regulatory agencies. Much of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity has centered around financial and accounting irregularities and mistakes, a lack of effective internal controls over financial accounting, inadequate corporate governance policies or a lack of adherence thereto and, in many cases, allegations of fraud. For example, in December 2012, the SEC initiated administrative proceedings against the China affiliates of the Big Four public accounting firms for allegedly refusing to produce audit work papers and other documents related to certain China-based companies under investigation by the SEC for potential accounting fraud against U.S. investors. Although we were not and are not subject to any ongoing SEC investigations, many U.S.-listed Chinese companies are now subject to, or may become subject to, shareholder lawsuits and SEC enforcement actions and are conducting internal and external investigations into the allegations. As a result of this proceeding and the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity, publicly traded stocks of many U.S.-listed Chinese companies have experienced significant decrease in value and, in some cases, have become virtually worthless. It is not clear as to what effect this sector-wide scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity will have on our company, our business and our stock price. If we become the subject of any unfavorable allegations, whether such allegations are proven to be true or not, we will have to expend significant resources to investigate such allegations and/or defend our company. This situation will be costly and time consuming and may distract our management resources. 21 Table of Contents Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is not permitted to be subject to inspection by Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the “PCAOB”), is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the applicable professional standards. Because our auditors are located in the Peoples’ Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. The regulation of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, establishes more complex procedures for acquisitions conducted by non-PRC investors which could make it more difficult to pursue growth through acquisitions. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, namely, the MOFCOM, the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council, or SASAC, the State Administration of Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or SAIC, the CSRC and SAFE, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006 and amended on June 22, 2009. This M&A Rule purports, among other things, to require offshore special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, formed for overseas listing purposes through acquisitions of PRC domestic companies and directly or indirectly controlled by PRC companies or individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to publicly listing their securities on a non-PRC stock exchange. The M&A Rule also established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by non-PRC investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the MOFCOM be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a non-PRC investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. We have grown our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses, and we may continue to do so in the future. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the MOFCOM or its local counterparts, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. 22 Table of Contents Recent PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents and employee stock options granted by overseas-listed companies may increase our administrative burden, restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity or otherwise adversely affect the implementation of our acquisition strategy. SAFE promulgated regulations that require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. Under the SAFE regulations, PRC residents who make, or have previously made, direct or indirect investments in offshore companies, will be required to register those investments. In addition, any PRC resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of an offshore company is required to update such registration with the local branch of SAFE in the event of any material change involving its round-trip investment, any capital variation, such as an increase or decrease in capital, any transfer or swap of shares, merger, divestiture, long-term equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest. If any PRC shareholder fails to make the required SAFE registration or file or update the registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore parent company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation, to their offshore parent company, and the offshore parent company may also be prohibited from injecting additional capital into their PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. We cannot provide any assurances that all of our future shareholders who are PRC residents will make or obtain the applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends or obtain foreign-exchange-dominated loans to our company. As it is uncertain how the SAFE regulations will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the SAFE regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. On March 28, 2007, SAFE adopted the Application Procedures of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Companies, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, PRC citizens who are granted stock options by an overseas publicly-listed company are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. Stock Option Rule ceased to be in effect and was replaced by the Circular for Relevant Issues on Foreign Exchange Administration on Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company, or Circular 7, promulgated by SAFE on February 15, 2012. Circular 7 modifies and simplifies the relevant procedures as provided by Stock Option Rule. Under our 2006 Plan, we have a significant number of options to purchase ordinary shares outstanding as well as a significant number of option shares reserved for future issuance. We and our PRC employees and directors who have been granted stock options will be subject to the Stock Option Rule when our company becomes an overseas publicly-listed company. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. Failure to comply with such provisions may also prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our employees, which is a significant component of the compensation of many of our PRC employees. In that case, our business operations may be materially and adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents Certain of our leased property interests may be defective in their respective leasehold interests and we may be forced to relocate our operations from the properties affected by such defects, which could cause a significant disruption to our business. Certain of our leased properties in China, all of which are used as offices, contain defects in their respective leasehold interests. Such defects include (i) the lack of evidence showing the landlord’s proper title or right to lease the property and/or (ii) the landlord’s failure to duly register the respective lease with the relevant PRC authority. According to relevant PRC laws, if a tenant lacks evidence of the landlord’s title or right to lease the property, the relevant lease agreement may not be valid or enforceable, and subject to challenge by third parties. Similarly, although the failure to register a lease agreement will not affect its effectiveness between the tenant and the landlord, such lease agreement may be subject to challenge by, and unenforceable against, a bona fide third party who leases the same property from the landlord and has duly registered the lease with the relevant PRC authority. The landlord and the tenant may also be subject to administrative fines for failures to register the relevant lease. We have initiated steps to cause our landlords to procure valid evidence as to the title or right to lease, as well as to complete the lease registration procedures. However, we cannot assure you that such defects will be cured in a timely manner or at all. Our business may be interrupted and additional relocation costs may be incurred if we are required to relocate our operations affected by these defects. Moreover, if our lease agreements are challenged by third parties, it could result in a diversion of our management’s attention and cause us to incur costs associated with defending these actions, even if such challenges are ultimately determined in our favor. Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market price for our ADSs is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Since our ADSs became listed on the New York Stock Exchange on July 20, 2010 up to April 26, 2013, the closing prices of our ADSs have ranged from US$0.93 to US$28.18 per ADS, and the last reported trading price on April 26, 2013 was US$1.73 per ADS. The price of our ADSs may continue to fluctuate in response to various factors, which include the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · announcements by us or our competitors of new services, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · technological breakthroughs in the IT services industry; · potential litigation or administrative investigations; · addition or departure of key personnel; · fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and Renminbi; · release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; · sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs; · general market conditions or other developments affecting us or our industry; and 24 Table of Contents · negative market perception and media coverage of our company or other companies in the same or similar industry with us. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. We may need additional capital and may not be able to raise funds on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, any funding through the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders and any funding through indebtedness could restrict our operations. We may require additional cash resources to finance our continued growth or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. The amount and timing of such additional financing needs will vary principally depending on the timing of new product and service launches, investments and/or acquisitions, and the amount of cash flow from our operations. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities or securities convertible into our ordinary shares could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. Our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: · investors’ perception of, and demand for, securities of IT service solutions providers; · conditions of the U.S. and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; · our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; · governmental regulations of foreign investment in China or other jurisdictions; · economic, political and other conditions in China and other jurisdictions; and · PRC governmental policies relating to foreign currency borrowings. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all, especially if the current extreme volatilities in the capital markets worldwide continue or worsen as a result of recent global financial services and economic crises. If we fail to raise additional funds, we may need to sell debt or additional equity securities or to reduce our growth to a level that can be supported by our cash flow. Without additional capital, we may not be able to: · further develop or enhance our customer base; · acquire necessary technologies, products or businesses; · expand operations in China and elsewhere; · hire, train and retain employees; · market our software solutions, services and products; or · respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated capital requirements. 25 Table of Contents Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs in the public market or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. All ADSs sold in our initial public offering in July 2010 and follow-on public offering in December 2010 are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, except to the extent acquired by persons deemed to be our “affiliates.” Shares owned by our founders, Mr. Yiming Ma and Ms. Heidi Chou, are also available for sale, subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. We may also have shares issued upon exercise of the options that are granted to our directors and employees. To the extent these shares are sold into the market, the market price of our ADSs could decline. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights of our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. The minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting will be seven days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares in order to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholder meeting. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. The depositary for our ADSs will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, except in limited circumstances, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, if you do not vote, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at our shareholders’ meetings unless: · we have failed to timely provide the depositary with notice of meeting and related voting materials; · we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; · we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; · a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders; or · the voting at the meeting is to be made on a show of hands. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, except under the circumstances described above. This may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. 26 Table of Contents Our company may be classified as a passive foreign investment company (or a “PFIC”) for United States federal income tax purposes, which could subject United States investors in our ADSs or ordinary shares to adverse tax consequences. In light of our significant cash balances and other liquid assets and because the value of our assets for purpose of the PFIC text is generally determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares, we may have been a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2012, and may continue to be, or become, a PFIC in future taxable years unless our share value increases and/or we invest a substantial amount of the cash and other passive assets that we hold in assets that produce or are held for the production of non-passive income. In addition, it is possible that one or more of our subsidiaries may be or become classified as a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes. A non-United States corporation, such as our company, will be classified as a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes for any taxable year, if either (1) 75% or more of its gross income for such year consists of certain types of “passive” income, or (2) 50% or more of its average quarterly assets as generally determined on the basis of fair market value during such year produce or are held for the production of passive income. For this purpose, cash and other assets readily convertible into cash are generally classified as passive and goodwill and other unbooked intangibles associated with active business activities may generally be classified as non-passive. Because there are uncertainties in the application of the relevant rules and PFIC status is a fact-intensive determination made on an annual basis, no assurance may be given with respect to our PFIC status for any taxable year. If we are classified as a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. investor holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, a U.S. investor may incur significantly increased United States income tax on gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of the ADSs or ordinary shares and on the receipt of distributions on the ADSs or ordinary shares to the extent such gain or distribution is treated as an “excess distribution” under the United States federal income tax rules. Furthermore, a U.S. investor will generally be treated as holding an equity interest in a PFIC in the first taxable year of the U.S. investor’s holding period in which we become a PFIC and subsequent taxable years (“PFIC-Tainted Shares”) even if, we, in fact, cease to be a PFIC in subsequent taxable years. Accordingly, a U.S. investor should, to the extent an election is available, consider making a “mark-to-market” election to avoid owning PFIC-Tainted Shares. See the discussion under “Item 10.E. Taxation — Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations” concerning the United States federal income tax consequences of an investment in the ADSs or ordinary shares if we are or become classified as a PFIC, including the possibility of making a “mark-to-market” election. You may not receive distributions on ordinary shares or any value for them if it is unlawful or impractical to make them available to you. Subject to the terms and conditions of the deposit agreement, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs, in which case it may determine not to make such a distribution. Neither we nor the depositary have any obligation to register ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities subject to such distribution under U.S. securities laws. Neither we nor the depositary have any obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distribution we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is unlawful or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may materially and adversely affect the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 27 Table of Contents Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and you will not receive such distribution. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the British Virgin Islands and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, a majority of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the British Virgin Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. 