ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this Annual Report in evaluating our business and our prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of net losses, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have a history of significant net losses and a limited history commercializing our molecular diagnostic products. We obtained FDA clearance for our first generation molecular diagnostic system in 2006, and commenced a limited marketing effort for this system. We commenced offering our XT-8 system and our Warfarin Sensitivity Test in July 2008. We commenced offering our Cystic Fibrosis Genotyping Test in July 2009 and our Thrombophilia Risk Test in April 2010. Our Respiratory Viral Panel Test is currently labeled for IUO. Our net losses from continuing operations were approximately $18.4 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, $20.0 million in 2009 and $28.4 million in 2008. At December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $144.5 million. We will continue to incur significant expenses for the foreseeable future for our sales and marketing, research and development and regulatory activities and maintaining our existing and obtaining additional intellectual property rights. We can not provide you any assurance that we will ever achieve profitability and, even if we achieve profitability, that we will be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Further, because of our limited commercialization history and because the market for molecular diagnostic products is relatively new and rapidly evolving, we have limited insight into the trends that may emerge and affect our business. We may make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business trends, which could harm our business and financial condition. We will need to raise additional funds in the future, and such funds may not be available on a timely basis, or at all. If additional capital is not available, we may have to curtail or cease operations. Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial product revenues, we will be required to finance our operations with our existing cash resources. We will need to raise additional funds in the future to support our operations. We can not be certain that additional capital will be available as needed or on acceptable terms, or at all. If we require additional capital at a time when investment in molecular diagnostics companies or in the marketplace in general is limited, we may not be able to raise such funds at the time that we desire, or at all. If we do raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible securities, the percentage ownership of holders of our common stock could be significantly diluted and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we obtain debt financing, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. If we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we could be required to relinquish significant rights to our technologies, products or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If our products do not perform as expected or the reliability of the technology on which our products are based is questioned, our operating results and business will suffer. Our success depends on the market’s confidence that we can provide reliable, high-quality diagnostics systems and tests. We believe that customers in our target markets are likely to be particularly sensitive to product defects and errors. As a result, our reputation and the public image of our products or technologies will be impaired if our products fail to perform as expected. Although our diagnostic systems are designed to be user-friendly, the functions they perform are quite complex, and our products may develop or contain undetected defects or errors. 21 Table of Contents If we experience a sustained material defect or error, this could result in loss or delay of revenues, increased costs to produce our tests, delayed market acceptance, damaged reputation, diversion of development and management resources, legal claims, increased insurance costs or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could materially harm our business. We also face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the sale of our products. We currently carry product liability insurance that covers us against specific product liability claims up to an annual aggregate limit of $7.0 million. We also carry a separate general liability and umbrella policy that covers us against certain claims but excludes coverage for product liability. Any claim in excess of our insurance coverage would have to be paid out of our cash reserves, which would have a detrimental effect on our financial condition. It is difficult to determine whether we have obtained sufficient insurance to cover potential claims. Also, we can not assure you that we can or will maintain our insurance policies on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. A product liability claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may fail to successfully expand the menu of diagnostic tests for our XT-8 system, or effectively predict the types of tests our existing and target customers want. We currently market three FDA-cleared diagnostic tests and have developed one other diagnostic test currently labeled for IUO. In addition, we have several diagnostic tests in the development or design stage. Some hospital-based and reference laboratories may not consider adopting our XT-8 system until we offer a broader menu of diagnostic tests. Although we are developing additional tests to respond to the needs of these laboratories, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to license the appropriate technology, or develop and obtain required regulatory clearances or approvals, for enough additional tests quickly enough or in a manner that is cost-effective. The development of new or enhanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends, as well as precise technological execution. In addition, in order to commercialize our products, we are required to undertake time consuming and costly development activities, including clinical studies for which the outcome is uncertain. Products that appear promising during early development and preclinical studies may, nonetheless, fail to demonstrate the results needed to support regulatory approval or, if approved, may not generate the demand we expect. If we are unable to successfully develop and commercialize additional diagnostic tests for use with our XT-8 system, our revenues and our ability to achieve profitability will be impaired. We face intense competition from established and new companies in the molecular diagnostics field and expect to face increased competition in the future. The markets for our technologies and products are very competitive, and we expect the intensity of competition to increase. We compete with many companies in the U.S. engaged in the development, commercialization and distribution of similar products intended for clinical molecular diagnostic applications. Categories of competitors include: • Companies developing and marketing multiplex molecular diagnostics systems; • Large hospital-based laboratories and reference laboratories who provide large-scale testing using their own proprietary testing methods; and • Healthcare companies that manufacture laboratory-based tests and analyzers. Such competitors classified in the above categories include: Cepheid; Gen-Probe, Inc.; Siemens; Hologic, Inc.; Innogenetics, Inc.; Luminex Corporation; Nanosphere, Inc.; Qiagen NV; Roche Diagnostics; and Abbott Diagnostics. Our diagnostic tests also face competition with the laboratory-developed-tests (LDT’s) developed by national and regional reference laboratories and hospitals. Such laboratory-developed tests may not be subject to the same requirements for clinical trials and FDA submission requirements that may apply to our products. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter the market with new technologies and our competitors improve their current products and expand their menu of diagnostic tests. Many 22 Table of Contents of our current competitors, as well as many of our potential competitors, have greater name recognition, more substantial intellectual property portfolios, longer operating histories, significantly greater resources to invest in new technologies, more substantial experience in new product development, greater regulatory expertise, more extensive manufacturing capabilities and the distribution channels to deliver products to customers. The impact of these factors may result in our technologies and products becoming obsolete before we recover the expenses incurred to develop them or before they generate significant revenue. We are reliant on the commercial success of our XT-8 system and our diagnostic tests. We have primarily placed our XT-8 systems with customers at no initial charge through “reagent rental” agreements, under which customers commit to purchasing minimum quantities of test cartridges over a period of one to three years, with a component of the reagent cartridge price allocated to recover the instrument cost. While we also offer our XT-8 systems for sale, we had sold only ten of our systems. We expect sales of our diagnostic tests associated with our XT-8 system will account for the vast majority of our revenues for at least the next several years. We intend to dedicate a significant portion of our resources to the commercialization of our XT-8 system and our existing FDA-cleared diagnostic tests. Although we intend to develop a broad range of additional diagnostic tests for use with the XT-8 system and our NexGen system, we can not assure you when or if we will obtain FDA clearances for the tests we intend to develop in the future, or whether the market will accept such new products. As a result, to the extent that our XT-8 system and our existing FDA-cleared diagnostic tests are not commercially successful or are withdrawn from the market for any reason, our revenues will be adversely impacted and our business operating results and financial condition will be harmed. We may not be successful in developing our NexGen system. We are developing a sample to answer platform, the NexGen system. We are designing this system to integrate automated nucleic acid extraction and amplification with our eSensor technology to allow technicians to be able to place a patient sample into our test cartridge and obtain results with no additional steps. The development of the NexGen system is a complex process, and we may not be successful in completing the development of all the currently intended features and benefits of the system, which may limit its marketability. In addition, before commercializing the NexGen system we will be required to obtain regulatory approval for the system as well as each of the diagnostic tests to be used on the system, including those tests that previously received approval for use with our XT-8 system. If we are unable to successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval for our NexGen system and related diagnostic tests, our business plan will be impaired. Our financial results will depend on the acceptance among reference laboratories and hospitals, third-party payors and the medical community of our molecular diagnostic technology and products. Our future success depends on the acceptance by our target customers, third-party payors and the medical community that our molecular diagnostic products are a reliable, accurate and cost-effective replacement for other molecular diagnostic testing methods. Physician offices and many hospitals outsource their molecular diagnostic testing needs to national or regional reference laboratories. Our business success depends on our ability to convince these target laboratories and hospitals to replace their current testing platforms and/or send-out tests, with our XT-8 system and related diagnostic tests. We must also continue to increase the consumable volume on our installed systems. Many other factors may affect the market acceptance and commercial success of our molecular diagnostic technology and products, including: • relative convenience and ease of testing of our diagnostic systems over competing products; • the introduction of new technologies and competing products that may make our technologies and products a less attractive solution for our target customers; • the breadth of our menu of available diagnostic tests relative to our competitors; 23 Table of Contents • our success in training reference and hospital-based laboratories in the proper use of our products; • the acceptance in the medical community of our molecular diagnostic technology and products; • the extent and success of our marketing and sales efforts; and • general economic conditions. Manufacturing risks and inefficiencies may adversely affect our ability to produce products. We must manufacture, or engage third parties to manufacture, components of our products in sufficient quantities and on a timely basis, while maintaining product quality, acceptable manufacturing costs and complying with regulatory requirements. In determining the required quantities of our products and the manufacturing schedule, we must make significant judgments and estimates based on inventory levels, current market trends and other related factors. Because of the inherent nature of estimates and our limited experience in marketing our products, there could be significant differences between our estimates and the actual amounts of products we require. We currently manufacture our proprietary test cartridges at our Pasadena, California manufacturing facility, until our transfer to the Carlsbad facility is complete in the first quarter 2011. We outsource manufacturing of our XT-8 system and much of the disposable component molding and component assembly for our test cartridges. Our XT-8 system is manufactured by Aubrey Group Inc., our single source supplier that specializes in contract design and manufacturing of electronic and electromechanical devices for medical use. The components are custom-made by only a few outside vendors. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured these components ourselves, including: • reliance on third parties for regulatory compliance and quality assurance; • possible breaches of manufacturing agreements by the third parties because of factors beyond our control; • possible regulatory violations or manufacturing problems experienced by our suppliers; and • possible termination or non-renewal of agreements by third parties, based on their own business priorities, at times that are costly or inconvenient for us. We may not be able to meet the demand for our products if one or more of these third-party manufacturers are not able to supply us with the necessary components that meet our specifications. It may be difficult to find alternate suppliers in a timely manner and on terms acceptable to us. The manufacturing operations for our test cartridges in Pasadena, California use highly technical processes involving unique, proprietary techniques. In addition, the manufacturing equipment we use would be costly to repair or replace and could require substantial lead time to repair or replace. Any interruption in our operations or decrease in the production capacity of our manufacturing facility or the facilities of any of our suppliers because of equipment failure, natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and fires or otherwise, would limit our ability to meet customer demand for the XT-8 system and tests and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Other possible disruptions may include power loss and telecommunications failures. In the event of a disruption, we may lose customers and we may be unable to regain those customers thereafter. Our insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. We plan to move our existing manufacturing operations in Pasadena, California to a new facility located in Carlsbad, California in the first quarter of 2011. Our new manufacturing facility will be subject to the risks discussed above related to our Pasadena manufacturing facilities. In addition, we will need to get the appropriate regulatory clearances for our new facility before commencing manufacturing operations. We may experience unexpected delays and costs in opening our new manufacturing facilities, which would have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 24 Table of Contents If we are unable to retain key members of our senior management and scientists or hire additional skilled employees, we may be unable to achieve our goals. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our senior management and key scientific and technical personnel. Our senior managers and other key employees can terminate their relationship with us at any time. We have a small number of senior managers, and the loss of services of any of these managers or our scientific or technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our employees. In addition, our product development and marketing efforts could be delayed or curtailed if we are unable to attract, train and retain highly skilled employees and scientific advisors. To expand our research, product development and sales efforts, we will need to retain additional people skilled in areas such as electrochemical and molecular science, information technology, manufacturing, sales, marketing and technical support. Because of the complex and technical nature of our systems and the dynamic market in which we compete, any failure to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could materially harm our ability to develop and commercialize our technology. We may not be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success may depend upon how we and our competitors anticipate and adapt to market conditions. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, emerging competition and new product introductions. New technologies, techniques or products could emerge with similar or better performance or may be perceived as providing better value than our systems and related tests and could exert pricing pressures on our products. It is critical to our success that we anticipate changes in technology and customer requirements and successfully introduce enhanced and competitive technology to meet our customers’ and prospective customers’ needs on a timely basis. We will need to respond to technological innovation in a rapidly changing industry and may not be able to maintain our technological advantages over emerging technologies in the future. If we fail to keep pace with emerging technologies, our systems and related tests will become uncompetitive and our market share will decline, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unsuccessful in our long-term goal of expanding sales of our product offerings outside the United States. Assuming we receive the applicable regulatory approvals, we intend to market our diagnostic products outside the United States through third-party distributors. These distributors may not commit the necessary resources to market and sell our products to the level of our expectations. If distributors do not perform adequately or in compliance with applicable laws and regulations in particular geographic areas, or we are unable to locate distributors in particular geographic areas, our ability to realize long-term international revenue growth would be materially adversely affected. In order to market our products in the European Union and many other foreign jurisdictions, we, or our distributors or partners, must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy and governing, among other things, clinical studies and commercial sales and distribution of our products. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The regulatory approval process outside the United States may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval, as well as additional risks. In addition, in many countries outside the United States, it is required that the product be approved for reimbursement before the product can be approved for sale in that country. We may not obtain approvals from regulatory authorities outside the United States on a timely basis, if at all. 25 Table of Contents Our Respiratory Viral Panel Test and other menu items that we develop in the future may have sales that fluctuate on a seasonal basis and, as a result, our results of operations for successive quarters may not accurately reflect full-year trends. Our Respiratory Viral Panel Test and other menu items that we develop in the future that assist in the diagnosis of illnesses may have sales that fluctuate on a seasonal basis. As a result, our results of operations for successive quarters may not accurately reflect full-year trends. For example, we expect volume of testing for our Respiratory Viral Panel Test generally will decline during the spring and summer season and accelerate during the fall and winter season. As a result, comparison of our results of operations for successive quarters may not accurately reflect trends or results for the full year. We may not be able to correctly estimate or control our future operating expenses, which could lead to cash shortfalls. Our operating expenses may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: • the time and resources required to develop, conduct clinical studies and obtain regulatory clearances for the additional diagnostic tests we develop; • the expenses we incur for research and development required to maintain and improve our technology, including developing our next-generation molecular diagnostic system; • the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other patent related costs, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation. • the expenses we incur in connection with commercialization activities, including product marketing, sales and distribution; • the expenses we incur in licensing biomarkers from third parties to expand the menu of diagnostics tests we plan to offer; • our sales strategy and whether the revenues from sales of our test cartridges or XT-8 system will be sufficient to offset our expenses; • the costs to attract and retain personnel with the skills required for effective operations; and • the costs associated with being a public company. Our budgeted expense levels are based in part on our expectations concerning future revenues from sales of our XT-8 system and diagnostic tests. We may be unable to reduce our expenditures in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenue. Accordingly, a significant shortfall in demand for our products could have an immediate and material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. If we expand sales of our products outside the United States, our business will be susceptible to risks associated with international operations. If we execute our plan to expand our operations outside the United States, our inexperience in operating in foreign countries increases the risk that our international expansion will not be successful. Conducting international operations would subject us to new risks that, generally, we have not faced in the United States, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; 26 Table of Contents • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems, tax inefficiencies related to our corporate structure and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and different legal standards; • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; • political, social and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and • reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and prospects. Additionally, operating internationally also requires significant management attention and financial resources. We can not be certain that the investment and additional resources required in establishing operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenues or profitability. We have limited experience in sales and marketing and may be unable to successfully commercialize our XT-8 system and related diagnostic tests. We have limited marketing, sales and distribution experience and capabilities. In connection with our XT-8 system, we commenced offering our Warfarin Sensitivity Test in July 2008, our Cystic Fibrosis Genotyping Test in July 2009 and our Thrombophilia Risk Test in April 2010. We are currently in varying stages of development of 4 additional tests: • KRAS-BRAF: Designed for the multiplexed detection and genotyping of 12 mutations in codons 12 and 13 of KRAS and the V600E mutation in BRAF. • Hepatitus C Virus Genotyping: Designed to detect and subtype the different genotypes for the Hepatitis C Virus (HCV). • 2C19: For the multiplexed detection and genotyping of the *2, *3, *4, *5, *6, *7, *8, *9, *10, *13 and *17 alleles of the cytochrome P450 (CYP450) 2C19 gene locus); and • Respiratory Viral Panel: A qualitative nucleic acid multiplex test designed for the simultaneous detection and identification of multiple respiratory virus nucleic acids and mutations) As of December 31, 2010, we had 82 analyzers actively in use with customers. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on attracting customers for the XT-8 system and building brand loyalty. To successfully perform sales, marketing, distribution and customer support functions ourselves, we will face a number of risks, including: • Our ability to attract and retain the skilled support team, marketing staff and sales force necessary to commercialize and gain market acceptance for our technology and our products; • The ability of our sales and marketing team to identify and penetrate the potential customer base, including hospitals, national and regional reference laboratories; and • The difficulty of establishing brand recognition and loyalty for our products. In addition, we may seek to enlist one or more third parties to assist with sales, distribution and customer support globally or in certain regions of the world. If we do seek to enter into these arrangements, we may not be successful in attracting desirable sales and distribution partners, or we may not be able to enter into these arrangements on favorable terms, or at all. If our sales and marketing efforts, or those of any third-party sales and distribution partners, are not successful, our technologies and products may not gain market acceptance, which would materially impact our business operations. 27 Table of Contents Providing XT-8 systems to our customers through reagent rental agreements may adversely affect our liquidity. The majority our XT-8 systems are sold to customers via “reagent rental” agreements, under which customers commit to purchasing minimum quantities of test cartridges over a period of one to three years. We also offer our XT-8 systems for sale. In 2010, we sold ten XT-8 systems to customers which included the sale of thirteen analyzers. The amount of additional capital we may need to raise depends on the amount of our revenues from sales of test cartridges sold through these reagent rental agreements. We do not currently sell enough test cartridges to recover all of our fixed manufacturing expenses associated with the production of our systems and test cartridges, and therefore we currently have a high cost of sales relative to revenue, resulting in a gross loss. If we continue not to sell a sufficient number of test cartridges to offset our expenses associated with these reagent rental agreements, our liquidity will be adversely affected. We use hazardous chemicals, biological materials and infectious agents in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research, product development and manufacturing processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals, biological materials and infectious disease agents. Our operations produce hazardous waste products. We can not eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. We may be sued for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and our liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials and specified waste products, as well as the discharge of pollutants into the environment and human health and safety matters. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive and may impair our research, development and production efforts. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur substantial costs, including civil or criminal fines and penalties, clean-up costs or capital expenditures for control equipment or operational changes necessary to achieve and maintain compliance. In addition, we can not predict the impact on our business of new or amended environmental laws or regulations or any changes in the way existing and future laws and regulations are interpreted and enforced. Our corporate structure may create tax inefficiencies. As a result our reorganization in 2010, Osmetech became a subsidiary controlled by GenMark and a controlled foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This organizational structure may create inefficiencies, as certain types of income and investments of Osmetech that otherwise would not be currently taxable under general tax rules, may become taxable. In addition, conveyance of intellectual property rights from one subsidiary to another could create taxable income. Distributions from GenMark to its operating subsidiaries or amongst the U.S. operating subsidiaries of GenMark may be subject to additional U.S. and foreign income tax withholding and result in lower profits. It is our intention in the first half of 2011 to streamline our corporate structure and, by doing so, we may lose some, if not most, of our tax loss carry forward benefits and/or certain activities of the restructuring could become taxable transactions. We cannot predict the outcome of such transactions and the impact such reorganization may have on U.S. and foreign tax liability and financial condition. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards might be limited. As of December 31, 2010, we had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $77.9 million for U.S. federal tax purposes. These loss carryforwards will expire in varying amounts through 2030. To the extent these net operating loss carryforwards are available, we intend to use them to reduce the corporate income tax liability associated with our operations. Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that might be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in stock ownership. As a result, prior or future changes in 28 Table of Contents ownership could put limitations on the availability of our net operating loss carryforwards. In addition, our ability to utilize the current net operating loss carryforwards might be further limited by the issuance of common stock in the future. To the extent our use of net operating loss carryforwards is significantly limited, our income could be subject to corporate income tax earlier than it would if we were able to use net operating loss carryforwards, which could result in lower profits. We have determined that we have experienced multiple ownership changes under Section 382. We have estimated that approximately $24.7 million of federal net operating losses can be utilized in the future based on limitations that we have calculated under Section 382. We are currently analyzing alternative positions and additional factual information that may increase the amount of net operating losses that could subsequently be utilized. To the extent that this additional information becomes available and could increase net operating losses available for use, we will adjust our deferred tax assets accordingly, with a corresponding adjustment to our valuation allowance. We also had non-U.S. net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $30.4 million as of December 31, 2010. As a result of our planned corporate restructuring, there is a significant risk these non-U.S. net operating loss carryforwards may not be utilized. Risks Related to Regulation The regulatory clearance or approval process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain, and the failure to obtain and maintain required clearances or approvals could prevent us from commercializing our future products. We are investing in the research and development of new diagnostic tests to expand our menu of testing options, as well as to develop our next-generation NexGen system, which we anticipate will reduce the need for sample preparation when using our system. Our products are subject to 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval by the FDA prior to their marketing for commercial use in the United States, and to any approvals required by foreign governmental entities prior to their marketing outside the United States. In addition, any changes or modifications to a device that has received regulatory clearance or approval that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or would constitute a major change in its intended use, may require the submission of a new application for 510(k) clearance, pre-market approval, or foreign regulatory approvals. The 510(k) clearance and pre-market approval processes, as well as the process of obtaining foreign approvals, can be expensive, time consuming and uncertain. It generally takes from four to twelve months from submission to obtain 510(k) clearance, and from one to three years from submission to obtain pre-market approval; however, it may take longer, and 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval may never be obtained. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, clearances or approvals for future products, including tests that are currently in design or development, would result in delayed, or no, realization of revenues from such products and in substantial additional costs which could decrease our profitability. We have limited experience in filing FDA applications for 510(k) clearance and pre-market approval. In addition, we are required to continue to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements once we have obtained clearance or approval for a product. There can be no assurance that we will obtain or maintain any required clearance or approval on a timely basis, or at all. Any failure to obtain or any material delay in obtaining FDA clearance or any failure to maintain compliance with FDA regulatory requirements could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If third-party payors do not reimburse our customers for the use of our clinical diagnostic products or if reimbursement levels are set too low for us to sell our products at a profit, our ability to sell our products and our results of operations will be harmed. We sell our products to hospital-based and reference laboratories, substantially all of which receive reimbursement for the health care services they provide to their patients from third-party payors, such as 29 Table of Contents Medicare, Medicaid, other domestic and foreign government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. Reimbursement decisions by particular third-party payors depend upon a number of factors, including each third-party payor’s determination that use of a product is: • a covered benefit under its health plan; • appropriate and medically necessary for the specific indication; • cost effective; and • neither experimental nor investigational. Third-party payors may deny reimbursement for covered products if they determine that a medical product was not used in accordance with cost-effective diagnosis methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. Third-party payors also may refuse to reimburse for procedures and devices deemed to be experimental. Obtaining coverage and reimbursement approval for a product from each government or third-party payor is a time consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our product to each government or third-party payor. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to coverage and reimbursement. For example, Medicare and Medicaid generally do not reimburse providers who use our Warfarin Sensitivity Test. In addition, eligibility for coverage does not imply that any product will be covered and reimbursed in all cases or reimbursed at a rate that allows our potential customers to make a profit or even cover their costs. In the United States, the American Medical Association assigns specific Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, codes, which are necessary for reimbursement of diagnostic tests. Once the CPT code is established, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services establish reimbursement payment levels and coverage rules under Medicaid and Medicare, and private payors establish rates and coverage rules independently. We can not guarantee that any of our tests are or will be covered by the CPT codes that we believe may be applied to them or that any of our tests or other products will be approved for coverage or reimbursement by Medicare and Medicaid or any third-party payor. Third-party payors may nonetheless choose to reimburse our customers on a per test basis based on individual biomarker detection, rather than on the basis of the number of results given by the test. This may result in reference laboratories, public health institutions and hospitals electing to use separate tests to screen for each disease so that they can receive reimbursement for each test they conduct. In that event, these entities may purchase separate tests for each disease, rather than products that can be used to return multiple test results. Third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. Increasingly, Medicare, Medicaid and other third-party payors are challenging the prices charged for medical services, including clinical diagnostic tests. In addition, Medicare’s current freeze on its clinical laboratory fee schedule may adversely affect the growth of the molecular diagnostics market for patients in the United States who are over 65 or have specific disabilities. Levels of reimbursement may decrease in the future, and future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payors may adversely affect the demand for and reimbursement available for our products, which in turn, could negatively impact pricing. If our customers are not adequately reimbursed for our products, they may reduce or discontinue purchases of our products, which would cause our revenues to decline. We and our suppliers, contract manufacturers and customers are subject to various governmental regulations, and we may incur significant expenses to comply with, and experience delays in our product commercialization as a result of, these regulations. Our manufacturing processes and facilities, and those of some of our contract manufacturers, are required to comply with the federal Quality System Regulation, or the QSR, which covers the procedures and documentation 30 Table of Contents of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our devices. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic announced and/or unannounced inspections of manufacturing facilities. We and our contract manufacturers have been, and anticipate in the future being, subject to such inspections, as well as to inspections by other federal and state regulatory agencies. We intend to complete the move of our manufacturing operations, to a new facility in Carlsbad, California in March 2011. Any delay in establishing our manufacturing operations at our new facility or obtaining any required licenses or regulatory approvals for our manufacturing facilities could delay our ability to develop or sell our products or cause us to incur more expenses than currently anticipated in our operating budget. We must also file reports of device corrections and removals and adhere to the FDA’s rules on labeling and promotion. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including substantial monetary penalties and criminal prosecution. Failure to comply with applicable FDA requirements, or later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products or manufacturing processes, including our failure or the failure of one of our contract manufacturers to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection, can result in, among other things: • administrative or judicially imposed sanctions; • injunctions or the imposition of civil penalties; • recall or seizure of our products; • total or partial suspension of production or distribution; • the FDA’s refusal to grant pending future clearance or pre-market approval for our products; • withdrawal or suspension of marketing clearances or approvals; • clinical holds; • warning letters; • refusal to permit the import or export of our products; and • criminal prosecution. Any of these actions, in combination or alone, could prevent us from marketing, distributing or selling our products and would likely harm our business. In addition, a product defect or regulatory violation could lead to a government-mandated or voluntary recall by us. We believe that the FDA would request that we initiate a voluntary recall if a product was defective or presented a risk of injury or gross deception. Regulatory agencies in other countries have similar authority to recall devices because of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture that could endanger health. Any recall would divert management attention and financial resources, could cause the price of our shares of common stock to decline and expose us to product liability or other claims, including contractual claims from parties to whom we sold products and harm our reputation with customers. A recall involving our XT-8 system or either of our FDA-cleared diagnostic tests would be particularly harmful to our business and financial results. The use of our diagnostic products by our customers is also affected by the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or CLIA, and related federal and state regulations that provide for regulation of laboratory testing. CLIA is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories in the United States by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality assurance and quality control and inspections. Current or future CLIA requirements or the promulgation of additional regulations affecting laboratory testing may prevent some laboratories from using some or all of our diagnostic products. 31 Table of Contents Legislative or regulatory healthcare reforms may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory clearance or approval of our products and to produce, market and distribute our products after clearance or approval is obtained. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the regulatory clearance or approval, manufacture and marketing of regulated products or the reimbursement thereof. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the FDA in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. For example, in the future, the FDA may require more burdensome premarket approval of our system or diagnostic tests rather than the 501(k) clearance process we have used to date and anticipate primarily using in the future. Any new regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing regulations may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of our products. Delays in receipt of or failure to receive regulatory clearances or approvals for our new products would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Federal and state governments in the United States are also undertaking efforts to control growing health care costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and third-party payors. In March 2010, Congress enacted comprehensive health care reform legislation known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, or the PPACA. While the PPACA involves expanding coverage to more individuals, it includes new regulatory mandates and other measures designed to constrain medical costs. The PPACA also imposes significant new taxes on medical device manufacturers that are expected to cost the medical device industry up to $20 billion over the next decade. There are also stringent new reporting requirements of financial relationships between device manufacturers and physicians and teaching hospitals. Complying with PPACA could significantly increase our costs and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our operations will also be impacted by the federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as modified by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, which we refer to as the Health Care Act. The Health Care Act imposes a 2.3% excise tax on sales of medical devices by manufacturers. Taxable devices include any medical device defined in section 201(h) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and intended for use by humans, with limited exclusions for devices purchased by the general public at retail for individual use. There is no exemption for small companies, and we expect to begin paying the tax in 2013. The Health Care Act also requires manufacturers to report to the Department of Health and Human Services detailed information about financial arrangements with physicians and teaching hospitals. These reporting provisions preempt state laws that require reporting of the same information, but not those that require reports of different or additional information. Failure to comply subjects the manufacturer to significant civil monetary penalties. We expect compliance with the Health Care Act to impose significant administrative and financial burdens on us. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback, self-referral, false claims and fraud laws, and any violations by us of such laws could result in fines or other penalties. Our commercial, research, and other financial relationships with healthcare providers and institutions are subject to various federal and state laws intended to prevent health care fraud and abuse. The federal anti-kickback statute prohibits the knowing offer, receipt or payment of remuneration in exchange for or to induce the referral of patients or the use of products or services that would be paid for in whole or part by Medicare, Medicaid or other federal health care programs. Remuneration has been broadly defined to include anything of value, including cash, improper discounts, and free or reduced price items and services. Many states have similar laws that apply to their state health care programs as well as private payors. Violations of the anti-kickback laws can result in exclusion from federal health care programs and substantial civil and criminal penalties. The federal False Claims Act, or FCA, imposes liability on persons who, among other things, present or cause to be presented false or fraudulent claims for payment by a federal health care program. The FCA has been used to 32 Table of Contents prosecute persons submitting claims for payment that are inaccurate or fraudulent, that are for services not provided as claimed, or for services that are not medically necessary. The FCA includes a whistleblower provision that allows individuals to bring actions on behalf of the federal government and share a portion of the recovery of successful claims. If our marketing or other arrangements were determined to violate anti-kickback or related laws, including the FCA, then our revenues could be adversely affected, which would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. State and federal authorities have aggressively targeted medical device companies for alleged violations of these anti-fraud statutes, based on improper research or consulting contracts with doctors, certain marketing arrangements that rely on volume-based pricing, off-label marketing schemes and other improper promotional practices. Companies targeted in such prosecutions have paid substantial fines in the hundreds of millions of dollars or more, have been forced to implement extensive corrective action plans, and have often become subject to consent decrees severely restricting the manner in which they conduct their business. If we become the target of such an investigation or prosecution based on our contractual relationships with providers or institutions, or our marketing and promotional practices, we could face similar sanctions which would materially negatively affect our business. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We rely on third-party license agreements for patents and other technology related to our products. The termination of these agreements could delay or prevent us from being able to commercialize our products and the failure to negotiate new licenses could prevent us from expanding our menu of diagnostic products. We depend on licenses to certain patents and patent applications that are related to electrochemical detection technology and other technology used in our molecular diagnostic systems and test cartridges. These licenses include both exclusive and non-exclusive arrangements. Many of these exclusive licenses obligate us to use commercially reasonable efforts to commercialize the subject inventions of the licensed patents, and if we fail to meet this obligation, we could lose one or more of those licenses. If, following such an event, any of our licensors were to provide a license to these patents to one or more of our competitors, our ability to compete in the market may be diminished. Furthermore, if we fail to comply with our material obligations under any of our patent license agreements, the licenses may be terminated and we could lose license rights that are important to our business. The exclusive and non-exclusive licenses expire at various times, corresponding to the subject patents or patent applications, the expirations of which currently range from 2013 to 2028. We expect that we will need to license other technology or patents to commercialize future products, including licenses to additional biomarkers to expand our menu of diagnostic tests. These licenses may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which could adversely affect our results of operations and growth prospects. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to the protection of our patents and other intellectual property rights and we may be unable to protect our rights to our technology. If we or any of our licensors choose to go to court to stop a third party from using the inventions claimed in our owned or licensed patents, that third party may ask the court to rule that the patents are invalid and should not be enforced against that third party. These lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources even if we were successful in stopping the infringement of these patents. In addition, there is a risk that the court will decide that these patents are not valid and that we do not have the right to stop others from using the inventions. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of these patents is upheld, the court will refuse to stop the other party on the ground that such other party’s activities do not infringe our patents. In addition, the U.S. Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit have recently changed some tests regarding granting patents and assessing the validity of patent claims. As a consequence, issued patents may be found to contain 33 Table of Contents invalid claims according to the newly revised and currently evolving standards. Some of our own or in-licensed patents may be subject to challenge and subsequent invalidation or significant narrowing of claim scope in a re-examination proceeding before the Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”), or during litigation, under the revised criteria which make it more difficult to obtain patents. We may also not be able to detect infringement against our own or in-licensed patents, which may be especially difficult for methods of use. While we intend to take actions reasonably necessary to enforce our patent rights, we depend, in part, on our licensors and collaborators to protect a substantial portion of our proprietary rights. Our products could infringe patent rights of others, which may require costly litigation and, if we are not successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages or limit our ability to commercialize our products. Our commercial success depends on our ability to develop, manufacture and market our systems and tests and use our proprietary technology without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. As the molecular diagnostic industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that there may be patents issued to third parties that relate to our products and technology of which we are not aware or that we must challenge to continue our operations as currently contemplated. Our products may infringe or may be alleged to infringe these patents. In addition, some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until eighteen months after filing and because publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, therefore we can not be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our issued patents or our pending applications or that we were the first to invent the technology. Another party may have filed, and may in the future file, patent applications covering our products or technology similar to ours. Any such patent application may have priority over our patent applications or patents, which could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such technologies. If another party has filed a U.S. patent application on inventions similar to ours, we may have to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the PTO to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful if the other party had independently arrived at the same or similar invention prior to our own invention, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position with respect to such inventions. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device, biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we or any collaborator infringes its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including, but not limited to: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, regardless of merit, may be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and may divert our management’s attention from our core business; • substantial damages for infringement, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product at issue infringes on or violates the third party’s rights, and if the court finds that the infringement was willful, we could be ordered to pay treble damages and the patent owner’s attorneys’ fees; • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing our product unless the third party licenses its product rights to us, which it is not required to do; • if a license is available from a third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, upfront fees or grant cross-licenses to intellectual property rights for our products; and • redesigning our products or processes so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial monetary expenditures and time. 34 Table of Contents Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations. We may be infringing on the patent rights of third parties, which could prevent us from selling our current or future products. From time to time we may become engaged in litigation with third parties having patent or other intellectual property rights alleging that our products or proprietary technologies infringe their intellectual property rights. These third parties and others who may in the future threaten us with such litigation, are or may be better capitalized and have more resources than us. In addition, in order to commercialize certain new or existing tests including our Thrombophilia Risk Test, we may be required to license certain biomarkers or risk that a third party may claim that the use of certain biomarkers in our tests infringes their intellectual properly rights. We have received correspondence in the past bringing to our attention certain patent rights held by third parties and offering to discuss licensing terms to the patents. Some of these letters relate to patents that are important to our products. Independently, we have also identified patents held by third parties that cover one or more of our products or planned products. Although we have taken licenses to numerous such third-party patents, we have also declined to license certain patents in instances where we do not believe our existing products infringe valid claims. A license may not be available to us or any collaborator on acceptable terms, or at all, which could potentially prevent us from selling our current products or developing new tests. In addition, during litigation, the patent holder could obtain a preliminary injunction or other equitable relief which could prohibit us from making, using or selling our products, technologies or methods pending a trial on the merits, which could be years away. Furthermore, such litigation is costly and could affect our results of operations and divert the attention of managerial and technical personnel. If we are unable to obtain, maintain and enforce intellectual property protection covering our products, others may be able to make, use, or sell products substantially the same as ours, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market. Our commercial success is dependent in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing intellectual property rights, including patents. If we are unable to obtain, maintain and enforce intellectual property protection covering our products, others may be able to make, use or sell products that are substantially the same as ours without incurring the sizeable development and licensing costs that we have incurred, which would adversely affect our ability to compete in the market. We seek to obtain and maintain patents and other intellectual property rights to restrict the ability of others to market products that compete with our products. Currently, our patent portfolio is comprised, on a worldwide basis, of 144 issued U.S. and foreign patents which we own directly or for which we are the exclusive licensee and that expire between 2013 and 2021. However, patents may not be issued based on any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us and, moreover, issued patents owned or licensed to us now or in the future may be found by a court to be invalid or otherwise unenforceable. Also, even if our patents are determined by a court to be valid and enforceable, they may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from marketing products similar to ours or designing around our patents, despite our patent rights, nor provide us with freedom to operate unimpeded by the patent rights of others. We have also licensed certain intellectual property from third parties related to our products, and we rely on them to file and prosecute patent applications and maintain patents and otherwise protect the licensed intellectual property. We have not had and do not have primary control over these activities for certain of our patents or patent applications and other intellectual property rights. We can not be certain that such activities by third parties have been or will be conducted in compliance with applicable laws and regulations or will result in valid and enforceable patents and other intellectual property rights. Pursuant to the terms of the license agreements 35 Table of Contents with some of our licensors, the licensors may have the right to control enforcement of our licensed patents or defense of any claims asserting the invalidity of these patents and even if we are permitted to pursue such enforcement or defense, we will require the cooperation of our licensors. We can not be certain that our licensors will allocate sufficient resources or prioritize their or our enforcement of such patents or defense of such claims to protect our interests in the licensed patents. The patent positions of medical device companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in patents in these fields has emerged to date in the United States or in many foreign jurisdictions. Both the U.S. Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit have made, and will likely continue to make, changes in how the patent laws of the U.S. are interpreted. In addition, Congress is currently considering legislation that would change provisions of the patent law. We cannot predict future changes in the interpretation of patent laws or changes to patent laws which might be enacted into law. Those changes may materially affect our patents, our ability to obtain patents or the patents and applications of our collaborators and licensors. The patent situation in the medical device and disease diagnostic fields outside the United States is even more uncertain. Future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • others may be able to make systems or devices that are similar to ours but that are not covered by the claims of our patents; • we may not be able to identify potential infringers of our technology due in part to the large number of competitors in the field; • we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by our issued patents or pending patent applications; • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents; • our issued patents may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be held invalid or unenforceable as a result of legal challenges by third parties; • the claims of our issued patents or patent applications when issued may not cover our device or product candidates; • there may be dominating patents relevant to our product candidates of which we are not aware; • there may be prior public disclosures that could invalidate our inventions or parts of our inventions of which we are not aware; • the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States; and • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable. We have a number of foreign patents and applications. However, the laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States, and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in obtaining, protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we encounter such difficulties or we are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business prospects could be substantially harmed. We also rely on trade-secret protection to protect our interests in proprietary know-how and for processes for which patents are difficult to obtain or enforce. We may not be able to protect our trade secrets adequately. We 36 Table of Contents have limited control over the protection of trade secrets used by our licensors, collaborators and suppliers. Although we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third-party illegally obtained and is using any of our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. We rely, in part, on non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and other parties to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary technology. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Moreover, others may independently develop equivalent proprietary information, and third parties may otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. Any disclosure of confidential data into the public domain or to third parties could allow our competitors to learn our trade secrets and use the information in competition against us. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is common in our industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other molecular diagnostics or medical device companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Future sales of our common stock may depress our share price. As of December 31, 2010, we have 11,728,233 shares of our common stock outstanding. Sales of a number of common shares in the public market could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, our 2010 Plan provides for annual increases in the number of shares available for issuance under the plan. We may also sell additional common stock in subsequent public offerings, which may adversely affect market prices for our common stock. We will incur costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies in the United States, which may adversely affect our operating results, and failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could cause investors to lose confidence in our operating results and in the accuracy of our financial reports and could have a material adverse effect on our business and on the price of our common stock. As a public company in the United States, we will be required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our first report on compliance with Section 404 is expected to be in connection with our financial statements for the year ending December 31, 2011. The controls and other procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, is disclosed accurately and is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms. We are in the early stages of conforming our internal control procedures to the requirements of Section 404 and we may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation needed to comply with Section 404 in a timely fashion. Our independent registered public accounting firm was not engaged to perform an audit of our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of our 37 Table of Contents internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, no such opinion was expressed. Even if we develop effective controls, these new controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with these policies or procedures may deteriorate. Even after we develop these new procedures additional weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may be discovered. In order to fully comply with Section 404, we will need to retain additional employees to supplement our current finance staff and/or to engage a third party consulting firm to assist in risk assessment, documentation and testing of controls. In addition, in the process of evaluating our internal control over financial reporting we expect that certain of our internal control practices will need to be updated to comply with the requirements of Section 404 and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and we may not be able to do so on a timely basis, or at all. In the event that we are not able to demonstrate compliance with Section 404 in a timely manner, or are unable to produce timely or accurate financial statements, we may be subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or NASDAQ and investors may lose confidence in our operating results and the price of our common stock could decline. Furthermore, if we or our auditors are unable to certify that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and in compliance with Section 404 we may be subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or NASDAQ and we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and on the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. Furthermore, as a public company listed in the United States, we will incur significant additional legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including regulations implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ, may increase legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If notwithstanding our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards, we fail to comply, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. Failure to comply with these rules might also make it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we might be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, on committees of our board of directors or as members of senior management. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, our credit facility restricts our ability to pay dividends. The payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual arrangements, restrictions imposed by applicable law, any limitations on payments of dividends present in any debt agreements we may enter into and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant. If we do not pay dividends, your ability to achieve a return on your investment in our company will depend on any future appreciation in the market price of our common stock. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our holders have purchased their common stock. 38 Table of Contents Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove the current members of our board and management. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change of control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. Furthermore, these provisions could prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove members of our board of directors. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. These provisions: • allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors; • provide that our stockholders may only remove our directors for cause; • establish a classified board of directors, such that not all members of the board of directors may be elected at one time; • authorize our board of directors to issue without stockholder approval up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock, that, if issued, would dilute our stock ownership and could operate as a “poison pill” to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our board of directors; • authorize our board of directors to issue without stockholder approval up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, the rights of which will be determined at the discretion of the board of directors that, if issued, could operate as a “poison pill” to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our board of directors; • require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting or by unanimous written consent; • establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to our board of directors or for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; • limit who may call stockholder meetings; and • require the approval of the holders of 80% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote in order to amend certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may, unless certain criteria are met, prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of the voting rights on our common stock, from merging or combining with us for a prescribed period of time. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 