Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information contained in this Registration Statement. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related To Our Emergence From Bankruptcy There is uncertainty regarding our ability to execute our strategic plan. We have incurred significant losses from continuing operations for each fiscal year since inception prior to emergence from bankruptcy. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon, among other things: (i) our ability to successfully achieve improved operating performance; (ii) our ability to maintain adequate cash on hand; (iii) our ability to generate cash from operations; and (iv) our ability to establish and maintain profitability. As discussed under "Operational Matters," we are in the process of implementing our revised strategic plan. The strategic plan served as a basis for our Plan of Reorganization. It is possible that the actual outcome of one or more of management's plans could be materially different or that one or more of management's significant judgments or estimates about the potential effects of the risks and uncertainties could prove to be materially incorrect. If one or more of these possible outcomes is realized, we may not be able to continue as a going concern and you could lose some or all of your investment. If we experience an ownership change, it could have adverse tax consequences. Pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization, we amended our certificate of incorporation to add certain restrictions on the acquisition of our stock to reduce the likelihood of an "ownership change" prior to October 28, 2012 that could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. Despite these restrictions, an ownership change with adverse tax consequences is still possible. Although we will monitor transfers of our stock in order to take additional action, if feasible, to avoid an ownership change, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer an ownership change with substantial adverse tax consequences. Risks Relating to our Business Our business faces a variety of financial, operating and market risks, including the following: Failures in our critical back-office systems and IT infrastructure or a breach of our cyber security systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. On April 1, 2006, we migrated off software systems provided by Verizon and cutover to our own back-office and IT infrastructure, including business processes, software applications (such as billing systems, corporate finance systems, human resources and payroll systems and customer relationship management systems), and hardware that are vital to our operations. While the major network operational systems were built and functioned without significant problems at and after the April 1, 2006 cutover date, critical systems related to back-office functions lacked significant functionality, which led to customer care, order management and billing systems issues, which substantially impacted both customer satisfaction and collection efforts. Since 2006, while we have significantly improved the functionality of our back-office and IT systems, there is no certainty that these activities will be entirely successful. In addition, we expect the costs incurred to retain third party service providers to provide manual processing services in order to operate our business and the additional internal labor costs, in the form of diversion from other efforts, to continue to decline over time as our systems functionality improves. 21 Table of Contents In addition, we are subject to cyber security risks primarily related to breaches of security pertaining to sensitive customer, employee, and vendor information maintained by us in the normal course of business, as well as breaches in the technology that supports our communications network and other business processes. This risk may be heightened as we expand our managed and cloud-based services. While we have technology and information security processes and disaster recovery plans in place to mitigate these risks, there is no assurance these measures will be adequate to ensure that our operations will not be disrupted. A loss of confidential or proprietary data or security breaches of other technology business tools could adversely affect our reputation, diminish customer confidence, disrupt operations, and subject us to possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations and our ability to expand our managed and cloud-based services. We have limited experience operating as a stand-alone provider of telecommunications services. We have operated as a stand-alone provider of telecommunications services since 2005. The increased costs and lack of flexibility associated with operating as a stand-alone provider of telecommunication services could negatively impact our financial results and our ability to maintain compliance with the covenant requirements of our credit facilities. We have made and expect to continue to make a significant amount of capital expenditures in connection with improvements to our network and other facilities. We have made and expect to continue to make a significant amount of capital expenditures to, among other things, enhance the capabilities of our network, enhance the functionality of our existing IT systems, and support the deployment of new products and services. We intend to fund these capital expenditures and expenses with operating cash flows and funds available to us under our credit facilities. If the amount of capital expenditures and expenses required to upgrade our network and other facilities exceeds those contemplated by our current business plan, our cash flows and available financing may be insufficient to fund such capital expenditures and expenses and to provide us with the liquidity that we otherwise would require. We rely on several material agreements to operate our business. The loss of certain of these agreements, or the failure of any third party to perform under certain of these agreements, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Since May 2005, several critical services historically provided by Verizon and its affiliates are provided by third-party service providers. For example, we have entered into agreements with Accenture and other third parties for the provision of, among other things, critical printing, billing, and IT services. The expiration or termination of certain of our material agreements by third-party service providers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Upon expiration or termination of these agreements, we may not be able to replace the services provided to us in a timely manner or on terms and conditions, including service levels and cost, favorable to us. The failure of these third-party service providers to satisfy their obligations under their agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, if these third-party service providers were to seek U.S. bankruptcy law protection, our agreements with such service providers, and such service providers' ability to provide the services under those agreements, could be adversely impacted, and although we may have a claim for damages against the bankruptcy estate, the claim may or may not be paid in the bankruptcy proceeding. 22 Table of Contents Our business is subject to extensive governmental regulation. Applicable legislation and regulations and changes to them could adversely affect our business. We operate in a heavily regulated industry, and most of our revenues come from the provision of services regulated by the FCC and the HPUC. Laws and regulations applicable to us and our competitors may be, and have been, challenged in the courts and could be changed by federal or state legislative initiative, judicial review or regulatory agencies at any time. We cannot predict the impact of future developments or changes to the regulatory environment or the impact such developments or changes would have on us. The "Connect America Fund" Order adopted by the FCC in November 2011 comprehensively reformed both the universal service program and intercarrier compensation and could have a significant impact on us. See "—Universal Service" above for a discussion of the impact of the Order on the universal service program, and "—Federal Framework for Intercarrier Compensation" above for a discussion on the impact of the Order on intercarrier compensation. Until the rulemaking proceedings by the FCC are completed and the numerous court appeals and petitions for reconsideration of the FCC's Order are resolved, we cannot know the actual impact of the Order on us. Changes in other FCC policies under review also could have a significant impact on us by increasing our obligations and/or reducing our revenue. State government regulation also is a source of business uncertainty. The HPUC has deferred several matters from earlier telecommunications proceedings which could be initiated in the future. We cannot predict whether state proceedings will be initiated or the possible outcome of such proceedings at this time. A reduction by the HPUC or the FCC of the rates we charge our customers would reduce our revenues and could reduce our earnings. The rates we charge our local telephone customers are based, in part, on a rate-of-return authorized by the HPUC on capital invested in our network. These authorized rates, as well as allowable investment and expenses, are subject to review and change by the HPUC at any time. If the HPUC orders us to reduce our rates, our revenues would be reduced and our earnings also could be reduced absent corresponding reductions in costs or growth in services. We cannot assure you that our rates will remain at their current levels. In connection with the HPUC Order approving the Plan of Reorganization, we agreed with the Division of Consumer Advocacy that we would not submit a rate case with a test year earlier than 2013, unless the HPUC determines that it would be in the public interest to waive this requirement. In addition, the HPUC order received in connection with the 2007 sale of our directories publishing business imposed a condition requiring the imputation of revenues. Specifically, a directory publishing revenue credit in the annual amount of $42.6 million per year must be added as regulated revenues into the calculation of Hawaiian Telcom, Inc.'s earnings from 2008 to 2022 in all future rate cases, alternative form of regulation proceedings, or other proceedings before the HPUC investigating Hawaiian Telcom, Inc.'s earnings or financial performance. Such conditions may adversely affect our ability to obtain rate increases in the future. Also, our local exchange service competitors may gain a competitive advantage based on rules which favor competitors. For example, competitors have the ability to purchase our services at discounted rates set by the HPUC and to resell them at rates that are not subject to the level of regulatory scrutiny generally faced by us. Additionally, as a result of the state regulators permitting our competitors to intervene in rate-setting proceedings, there is a potential that such competitors could obtain business sensitive information about us during such proceedings. 23 Table of Contents The FCC approves tariffs for interstate access and subscriber line charges, both of which are components of our network access revenue. The FCC currently is considering whether to restrain special access pricing by carriers like us subject to price caps on interstate rates. The "Connect America Fund" Order that the FCC adopted in November 2011 will reduce switched interstate access charges for carriers like us over a period of six years but allow us to recover some of the foregone revenue from our end users. It is possible we may be required to recover more revenue through subscriber line charges or forego this revenue altogether. This could reduce our revenue or impair our competitive position. The telecommunications industry is increasingly competitive, and we may have difficulty competing effectively. All sectors of the telecommunications industry are competitive. Competition in the markets in which we operate could: •reduce our customer base; •require us to lower prices charged customers in order to compete; or •require us to increase marketing expenditures and the use of discounting and promotional campaigns. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business. Wireline Services. As the ILEC, we face competition from resellers, local providers who lease UNEs from us and, to a lesser degree, from facilities-based providers of local telephone services. We have historically faced access line losses as a result of competition and substitution of traditional wireline services with wireless services. Access line losses have been faced by the industry as a whole, and we cannot assure you that access line losses will not continue in the future. In particular, the increasing penetration of high-speed Internet and VoIP could lead to further primary and second access line losses. Interconnection duties are governed, in part, by telecommunications rules and regulations related to the UNEs that must be provided. These rules and regulations remain subject to ongoing modifications. Our business is subject to extensive governmental regulation, and applicable legislation and regulations and changes to them could adversely affect our business. However, we received some regulatory relief in 2009 when the Hawaii State Legislature passed Act 180, which classified retail local exchange intrastate services as fully competitive. While HPUC approval and cost support filings are no longer required to establish or modify rates or to bundle service offerings, HPUC approval is required to raise the rate that existed for the retail service in the tariff at the time of implementation of Act 180. In addition, while cellular wireless services have historically complemented traditional local exchange and long distance services, existing and emerging wireless and IP technologies are increasingly competitive with local exchange and, particularly, long distance services in some or all of our service areas. Internet Services. We expect that the Internet access services business will continue to be highly competitive due to the absence of significant barriers to entry. We currently compete with a number of established online services companies, inter-exchange carriers and cable companies. Competition is particularly intense for broadband services. Advanced Communication and Network Services and Managed and Cloud-Based Services. These advanced services businesses are highly competitive. Many non-traditional players have emerged in the business communications market, attracted by the absence of significant barriers to entry. Many of these non-traditional players are capable of focusing on highly specialized areas of the market. 24 Table of Contents Next Generation Television Service. We launched our video service on the island of Oahu in July 2011. The market for video services in Hawaii is dominated by Oceanic. On the island of Oahu, approximately 93% of households on Oahu currently are customers of Oceanic's cable service. There is no assurance we will be able to compete successfully against Oceanic. In particular, the costs to acquire programming is a significant and increasing cost, and there is no assurance our content acquisition costs will be in line with Oceanic's such that we can remain competitive. Direct broadcast satellite companies currently are not significant competitors, but this could change in the future. Wireless Services. We provide wireless telecommunications services by use of a MVNO model in which we resell another carrier's facilities-based wireless services under the Hawaiian Telcom® brand name. The market in Hawaii for wireless telecommunications services is subject to intense competition. In addition, our wireless business may be less profitable than the wireless businesses of other telecommunications companies due to our use of a MVNO model. If we do not adapt to technological changes in the telecommunications industry, we could lose customers or market share. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, frequent new service introductions and evolving industry standards. We cannot predict the effect of these changes on our competitive position, profitability or industry. Technological developments may reduce the competitiveness of our network and require unbudgeted upgrades or the procurement of additional products that could be expensive and time consuming to implement. In addition, new products and services arising out of technological developments may reduce the attractiveness of our services. If we fail to adapt successfully to technological changes or fail to obtain access to important new technologies, we could lose customers and be limited in our ability to attract new customers and sell new services to our existing customers. An element of our business strategy is to deliver enhanced and ancillary services to customers. The successful delivery of new services is uncertain and dependent on many factors, and we may not generate anticipated revenues from such services. The successful operation and growth of our businesses are dependent on economic conditions in Hawaii. Substantially all of our customers and operations are located in Hawaii. Because of our geographical position, the successful operation and growth of our businesses is dependent on economic conditions in Hawaii. The Hawaii economy, in turn, is dependent upon many factors, including: •the level of government and military spending; •the development of the local financial services industry; •the strength of the Hawaii tourism industry; •the continued growth in services industries; and •the absence of hurricanes or other natural disasters and terrorism incidents. The customer base for telecommunications services in Hawaii is small and geographically concentrated. The population of Hawaii is approximately 1.36 million, approximately 70% of whom live on the island of Oahu. Any adverse development affecting Oahu, or Hawaii generally, could substantially impact our ability to do business. Labor shortages or increased labor costs in Hawaii could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to hire and retain a sufficient labor force of qualified persons, or that future collective bargaining agreement negotiations will not result in significant increases in the cost of labor. 25 Table of Contents Our business could be harmed by a prolonged work stoppage. As of March 1, 2012, 55% of our workforce was represented by IBEW Local 1357. Our current collective bargaining agreement expired on October 24, 2011. In October 2011, a majority of union-represented employees rejected our last, best and final offer and authorized union leadership to call a strike. A two-day work stoppage was initiated by IBEW Local 1357 in November 2011, with no material impact to our customers. In December 2011, an updated last, best and final offer was made and also rejected, but we and IBEW Local 1357 have agreed there will be no work stoppage or slowdown and no lockout while discussions continue. We implemented the terms of our updated last, best and final offer effective January 1, 2012, with changes to retirement benefits taking effect on March 1, 2012. In January 2012, IBEW Local 1357 filed an unfair labor practices charge with the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) contesting our declaration of impasse and implementation of our updated last, best and final offer. There is no set timeline for resolving this charge at this point. While union employees continue to work and discussions are continuing, there is no assurance that a strike or work stoppage may not occur. While we believe we have adequate contingency plans and preparations in place to ensure that our customers continue to receive services, a strike or work stoppage by union-represented employees could have a material adverse effect on us. We depend on key members of our executive management team. Our future success as a stand-alone telecommunications provider is highly dependent upon members of our executive management team. Although certain of these members are subject to employment agreements and participate in the various incentive plans, such employment agreements may be terminated and the loss of the services of any such individuals or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect upon our future success as a stand-alone telecommunications provider. We do not maintain any "key person" insurance on any of our personnel. In 2008, we hired a new senior management team, including hiring Eric K. Yeaman as President and Chief Executive Officer, in an effort to explore strategic opportunities and improve operating results. In 2011, we hired a Chief Operating Officer, a newly-created position, to oversee and integrate our core telecom and technology operations in order to enhance the execution of our strategic plan. Our future success will be dependent in part upon the abilities of the members of our senior management team to leverage their extensive management and operating experience to improve our financial performance and business operations. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. We have a significant amount of indebtedness in relation to our equity. We maintain a Term Loan in the amount of $300 million and a revolving credit facility in the amount of $30 million ("Revolving Credit Facility"), each with a first priority lien on all assets. The debt service requirements of our indebtedness could: •make it more difficult for us to satisfy the service requirements of our other obligations, including pension funding obligations, investments required to maintain and upgrade our network and service fleet, investments required to introduce and deploy new products and services, as well as the operating costs of our businesses; •increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •require us to dedicate a higher than desired portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; 26 Table of Contents •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •make it difficult to secure credit terms with our vendors; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and •limit our ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the terms of our Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. The Term Loan matures in 2017. We generally do not expect to generate the necessary cash flow to repay our Term Loan in its entirety by the maturity date and such repayment in full is dependent upon the ability to refinance the Term Loan on reasonable terms. The ability to refinance the indebtedness on reasonable terms before the maturity date cannot be assured. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our current indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We will likely need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies, and a breach of such covenants may result in the acceleration of our long-term debt maturities. The restrictive covenants in the Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility limit our ability, among other things, to: •incur additional indebtedness; •pay dividends or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or to make certain other restricted payments or investments; •sell assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; •consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; •enter into transactions with our affiliates; •invest in new products and services or make capital expenditures; and •incur liens. In addition, the restrictive covenants may prohibit us from prepaying our other indebtedness and require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. 27 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 