ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Statements We have made or implied certain forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All statements, other than statements of historical facts included in this Annual Report, including the statements under Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding our business strategy, future operations, financial condition, estimated revenues, projected costs, projected synergies, prospects, plans and objectives of management, as well as information concerning expected actions of third parties, are forward-looking statements. When used in this Annual Report, the words “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “estimate,” “believe,” “expect,” “project,” “could,” “will,” “should,” “may” and similar expressions are also intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain such identifying words. Since these forward-looking statements are based upon our current expectations of future events and projections and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control and some of which may change rapidly, actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those expressed or implied herein, and you should not place undue reliance on these statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied herein include, without limitation: • the impact of our substantial indebtedness on our business, financial condition and results of operations; • the impact of restrictions in our debt instruments on our ability to operate our business, finance our capital needs or pursue or expand business strategies; • any failure to comply with financial covenants and other provisions and restrictions of our debt instruments; • our ability to successfully integrate the business acquired in connection with the combination with Russell Hobbs and achieve the expected synergies from that integration at the expected costs; • the impact of expenses resulting from the implementation of new business strategies, divestitures or current and proposed restructuring activities; • the impact of fluctuations in commodity prices, costs or availability of raw materials or terms and conditions available from suppliers, including suppliers’ willingness to advance credit; • interest rate and exchange rate fluctuations; • the loss of, or a significant reduction in, sales to a significant retail customer(s); • competitive promotional activity or spending by competitors or price reductions by competitors; • the introduction of new product features or technological developments by competitors and/or the development of new competitors or competitive brands; • the effects of general economic conditions, including inflation, recession or fears of a recession, depression or fears of a depression, labor costs and stock market volatility or changes in trade, monetary or fiscal policies in the countries where we do business; • changes in consumer spending preferences and demand for our products; • our ability to develop and successfully introduce new products, protect our intellectual property and avoid infringing the intellectual property of third parties; • our ability to successfully implement, achieve and sustain manufacturing and distribution cost efficiencies and improvements, and fully realize anticipated cost savings; • the cost and effect of unanticipated legal, tax or regulatory proceedings or new laws or regulations (including environmental, public health and consumer protection regulations); 13 Table of Contents • public perception regarding the safety of our products, including the potential for environmental liabilities, product liability claims, litigation and other claims; • the impact of pending or threatened litigation; • changes in accounting policies applicable to our business; • government regulations; • the seasonal nature of sales of certain of our products; • the effects of climate change and unusual weather activity; and • the effects of political or economic conditions, terrorist attacks, acts of war or other unrest in international markets. Some of the above-mentioned factors are described in further detail in the section entitled “Risk Factors” set forth below. You should assume the information appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is accurate only as of September 30, 2010 or as otherwise specified, as our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may have changed since that date. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the U.S. and the rules and regulations of the SEC, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise to reflect actual results or changes in factors or assumptions affecting such forward-looking statement. 14 Table of Contents RISK FACTORS Any of the following factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the risks described below are not the only risks that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently view as immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to the Merger Significant costs have been incurred in connection with the consummation of the Merger and are expected to be incurred in connection with the integration of Spectrum Brands and Russell Hobbs into a combined company, including legal, accounting, financial advisory and other costs. We expect to incur one-time costs of approximately $23 million in connection with integrating the operations, products and personnel of Spectrum Brands and Russell Hobbs into a combined company, in addition to costs related directly to completing the Merger described below. These costs may include costs for: • employee redeployment, relocation or severance; • integration of information systems; • combination of research and development teams and processes; and • reorganization or closures of facilities. In addition, we expect to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with combining our operations with those of Russell Hobbs, which cannot be estimated accurately at this time. We incurred approximately $85 million of transaction fees and other costs related to the Merger. Additional unanticipated costs may yet be incurred as we integrate our business with that of Russell Hobbs. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of our operations with those of Russell Hobbs, may offset incremental transaction and transaction-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our integration efforts. In addition, while we expect to benefit from leveraging distribution channels and brand names across both companies, we cannot assure you that we will achieve such benefits. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger. The Merger involved the integration of two companies that previously operated independently. The integration of our operations with those of Russell Hobbs is expected to result in financial and operational benefits, including increased revenues and cost savings. There can be no assurance, however, regarding when or the extent to which we will be able to realize these increased revenues, cost savings or other benefits. Integration may also be difficult, unpredictable, and subject to delay because of possible company culture conflicts and different opinions on technical decisions and product roadmaps. We must integrate or, in some cases, replace, numerous systems, including those involving management information, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, employee benefits, payroll and regulatory compliance, many of which are dissimilar. In some instances, we and Russell Hobbs have served the same customers, and some customers may decide that it is desirable to have additional or different suppliers. Difficulties associated with integration could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Integrating our business with that of Russell Hobbs may divert our management’s attention away from operations. Successful integration of our and Russell Hobbs’ operations, products and personnel may place a significant burden on our management and other internal resources. The diversion of management’s attention, and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process, could harm our business, financial conditions and operating results. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related To Our Emergence From Bankruptcy Because our consolidated financial statements are required to reflect fresh-start reporting adjustments to be made upon emergence from bankruptcy, financial information in our financial statements prepared after August 30, 2009 will not be comparable to our financial information from prior periods. All conditions required for the adoption of fresh-start reporting were met upon emergence from Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on the Effective Date. However, in light of the proximity of that date to our accounting period close immediately following the Effective Date, which was August 30, 2009, we elected to adopt a convenience date of August 30, 2009 for recording fresh-start reporting. We adopted fresh-start reporting in accordance with the Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 852: “Reorganizations,” pursuant to which our reorganization value, which is intended to reflect the fair value of the entity before considering liabilities and approximate the amount a willing buyer would pay for the assets of the entity immediately after the reorganization, was allocated to the fair value of assets in conformity with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, “Business Combinations,” using the purchase method of accounting for business combinations. We stated liabilities, other than deferred taxes, at a present value of amounts expected to be paid. The amount remaining after allocation of the reorganization value to the fair value of identified tangible and intangible assets was reflected as goodwill, which is subject to periodic evaluation for impairment. In addition, under fresh-start reporting the accumulated deficit was eliminated. Thus, our future statements of financial position and results of operations are not be comparable in many respects to statements of financial position and consolidated statements of operations data for periods prior to the adoption of fresh-start reporting. The lack of comparable historical information may discourage investors from purchasing our securities. Additionally, the financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not be indicative of future financial information. Risks Related To Our Business We are a parent company and our primary source of cash is and will be distributions from our subsidiaries. We are a parent company with limited business operations of our own. Our main asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries. We conduct most of our business operations through our direct and indirect subsidiaries. Accordingly, our primary sources of cash are dividends and distributions with respect to our ownership interests in our subsidiaries that are derived from their earnings and cash flow. Our subsidiaries might not generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to pay dividends or distributions in the future. Our subsidiaries’ payments to us will be contingent upon their earnings and upon other business considerations. In addition, our senior credit facilities, the indentures governing our notes and other agreements limit or prohibit certain payments of dividends or other distributions to us. We expect that future credit facilities will contain similar restrictions. Our substantial indebtedness may limit our financial and operating flexibility, and we may incur additional debt, which could increase the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We have, and we expect to continue to have, a significant amount of indebtedness. As of September 30, 2010, we had total indebtedness under our Senior Secured Facilities, the 12% Notes and other debt of approximately $1.8 billion. Our substantial indebtedness has had, and could continue to have, material adverse consequences for our business, and may: • require us to dedicate a large portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, which will reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other business activities; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; 16 Table of Contents • restrict our ability to make strategic acquisitions, dispositions or exploiting business opportunities; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds (even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity) or dispose of assets. Under the Senior Secured Facilities and the indenture governing the 12% Notes (the “2019 Indenture”), we may incur additional indebtedness. If new debt is added to our existing debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase. Furthermore, a substantial portion of our debt bears interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, the interest rate on our variable rate debt will increase and will create higher debt service requirements, which would adversely affect our cash flow and could adversely impact our results of operations. While we may enter into agreements limiting our exposure to higher debt service requirements, any such agreements may not offer complete protection from this risk. Restrictive covenants in the Senior Secured Facilities and the 2019 Indenture may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. The Senior Secured Facilities and the 2019 Indenture each restrict, among other things, asset dispositions, mergers and acquisitions, dividends, stock repurchases and redemptions, other restricted payments, indebtedness and preferred stock, loans and investments, liens and affiliate transactions. The Senior Secured Facilities and the 2019 Indenture also contain customary events of default. These covenants, among other things, limit our ability to fund future working capital and capital expenditures, engage in future acquisitions or development activities, or otherwise realize the value of our assets and opportunities fully because of the need to dedicate a portion of cash flow from operations to payments on debt. In addition, the Senior Secured Facilities contain financial covenants relating to maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage. Such covenants could limit the flexibility of our restricted entities in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industries in which they operate. Our ability to comply with these covenants is subject to certain events outside of our control. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, the lenders under our Senior Secured Facilities or 12% Notes could terminate their commitments and the lenders under our Senior Secured Facilities or 12% Notes could accelerate repayment of our outstanding borrowings, and, in either case, we may be unable to obtain adequate refinancing outstanding borrowings on favorable terms. If we are unable to repay outstanding borrowings when due, the lenders under the Senior Secured Facilities or 12% Notes will also have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the indebtedness owed to them. If our obligations under the Senior Secured Facilities and the 12% Notes are accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness. Assuming consummation of a pending transaction by which Harbinger Group, Inc. (“HRG”) would acquire a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock, any sale or other disposition by HRG to non-affiliates of a sufficient amount of the common stock of SB Holdings would constitute a change of control under the agreements governing Spectrum Brands’ debt. HRG and Harbinger Capital Partners Master Fund I, Ltd. (“Harbinger Master Fund”), Harbinger Capital Partners Special Situations Fund, L.P and Global Opportunities Breakaway Ltd. (collectively, the “Harbinger Parties”) are parties to a Contribution and Exchange Agreement (the “Exchange Agreement”), pursuant to the terms of which the Harbinger Parties will contribute 27,756,905 shares of SB Holdings common stock to HRG and received in exchange for such shares an aggregate of 119,909,830 shares of HRG common stock (the “Share Exchange”). Immediately following the consummation of the Share Exchange, HRG will own approximately 54.4% of our common stock and the Harbinger Parties will own approximately 12.7% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. The Harbinger Parties will own approximately 93.3% of the outstanding HRG common stock. 17 Table of Contents Following consummation of the Share Exchange, any sale or other disposition by HRG to non-affiliates of a sufficient amount of the common stock of SB Holdings could constitute a change of control under the agreements governing Spectrum Brands’ debt, including any foreclosure on or sale of SB Holdings’ common stock pledged as collateral by HRG pursuant to the indenture governing HRG’s $350 million 10.625% Senior Secured Notes due 2015. Under the Term Loan and the ABL Revolving Credit Facility, a change of control is an event of default and, if a change of control were to occur, Spectrum Brands would be required to get an amendment to these agreements to avoid a default. If Spectrum Brands was unable to get such an amendment, the lenders could accelerate the maturity of each of the Spectrum Brands Term Loan and the ABL Revolving Credit Facility. In addition, under the indentures governing the 9.5% Notes and the 12% Notes, upon a change of control of SB Holdings, Spectrum Brands is required to offer to repurchase such notes from the holders at a price equal to 101% of principal amount of the notes plus accrued interest or obtain a waiver of default from the holders of such notes. If Spectrum Brands was unable to make the change of control offer or obtain a waiver of default, it would be an event of default under the indentures that could allow holders of such notes to accelerate the maturity of the notes. See “Risks Related to SB Holdings’ Common Stock—The Harbinger Parties and, following the Share Exchange, HRG, will exercise significant influence over us and their interests in our business may be different from the interest of our stockholders.” We face risks related to the current economic environment. The current economic environment and related turmoil in the global financial system has had and may continue to have an impact on our business and financial condition. Global economic conditions have significantly impacted economic markets within certain sectors, with financial services and retail businesses being particularly impacted. Our ability to generate revenue depends significantly on discretionary consumer spending. It is difficult to predict new general economic conditions that could impact consumer and customer demand for our products or our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors. The recent continuation of a number of negative economic factors, including constraints on the supply of credit to households, uncertainty and weakness in the labor market and general consumer fears of a continuing economic downturn could have a negative impact on discretionary consumer spending. If the economy continues to deteriorate or fails to improve, our business could be negatively impacted, including as a result of reduced demand for our products or supplier or customer disruptions. Any weakness in discretionary consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when it could be necessary or beneficial to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. In 2010, concern over sovereign debt in Greece, Ireland and certain other European Union countries caused significant fluctuations of the Euro relative to other currencies, such as the U.S. Dollar. Destabilization of the European economy could lead to a decrease in consumer confidence, which could cause reductions in discretionary spending and demand for our products. Furthermore, sovereign debt issues could also lead to further significant, and potentially longer-term, economic issues such as reduced economic growth and devaluation of the Euro against the U.S. Dollar, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial conditions and operating results. We may not be able to retain key personnel or recruit additional qualified personnel whether as a result of the Merger or otherwise, which could materially affect our business and require us to incur substantial additional costs to recruit replacement personnel. We are highly dependent on the continuing efforts of our senior management team and other key personnel. As a result of the Merger, our current and prospective employees could experience uncertainty about their future roles. This uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing and technical personnel. Any failure to attract and retain key personnel, whether as a result of the Merger or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we currently do not maintain “key person” insurance covering any member of our management team. 18 Table of Contents We participate in very competitive markets and we may not be able to compete successfully, causing us to lose market share and sales. The markets in which we participate are very competitive. In the consumer battery market, our primary competitors are Duracell (a brand of Procter & Gamble), Energizer and Panasonic (a brand of Matsushita). In the electric shaving and grooming and electric personal care product markets, our primary competitors are Braun (a brand of Procter & Gamble), Norelco (a brand of Philips), and Vidal Sassoon and Revlon (brands of Helen of Troy). In the pet supplies market, our primary competitors are Mars, Hartz and Central Garden & Pet. In the Home and Garden Business, our principal national competitors are Scotts, Central Garden & Pet and S.C. Johnson. Our principal national competitors within our Small Appliances segment include Jarden Corporation, DeLonghi America, Euro-Pro Operating LLC, Metro Thebe, Inc., d/b/a HWI Breville, NACCO Industries, Inc. (Hamilton Beach) and SEB S.A. In each of these markets, we also face competition from numerous other companies. In addition, in a number of our product lines, we compete with our retail customers, who use their own private label brands, and with distributors and foreign manufacturers of unbranded products. Significant new competitors or increased competition from existing competitors may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of our operations. We compete with our competitors for consumer acceptance and limited shelf space based upon brand name recognition, perceived product quality, price, performance, product features and enhancements, product packaging and design innovation, as well as creative marketing, promotion and distribution strategies, and new product introductions. Our ability to compete in these consumer product markets may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • We compete against many well-established companies that may have substantially greater financial and other resources, including personnel and research and development, and greater overall market share than us. • In some key product lines, our competitors may have lower production costs and higher profit margins than us, which may enable them to compete more aggressively in offering retail discounts, rebates and other promotional incentives. • Product improvements or effective advertising campaigns by competitors may weaken consumer demand for our products. • Consumer purchasing behavior may shift to distribution channels where we do not have a strong presence. • Consumer preferences may change to lower margin products or products other than those we market. • We may not be successful in the introduction, marketing and manufacture of any new products or product innovations or be able to develop and introduce, in a timely manner, innovations to our existing products that satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. Some competitors may be willing to reduce prices and accept lower profit margins to compete with us. As a result of this competition, we could lose market share and sales, or be forced to reduce our prices to meet competition. If our product offerings are unable to compete successfully, our sales, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to realize expected benefits and synergies from future acquisitions of businesses or product lines. We may acquire partial or full ownership in businesses or may acquire rights to market and distribute particular products or lines of products. The acquisition of a business or of the rights to market specific products or use specific product names may involve a financial commitment by us, either in the form of cash or equity consideration. In the case of a new license, such commitments are usually in the form of prepaid royalties and 19 Table of Contents future minimum royalty payments. There is no guarantee that we will acquire businesses or product distribution rights that will contribute positively to our earnings. Anticipated synergies may not materialize, cost savings may be less than expected, sales of products may not meet expectations, and acquired businesses may carry unexpected liabilities. Sales of certain of our products are seasonal and may cause our operating results and working capital requirements to fluctuate. On a consolidated basis our financial results are approximately equally weighted between quarters, however, sales of certain product categories tend to be seasonal. Sales in the consumer battery, electric shaving and grooming and electric personal care product categories, particularly in North America, tend to be concentrated in the December holiday season (Spectrum’s first fiscal quarter). Demand for pet supplies products remains fairly constant throughout the year. Demand for home and garden control products sold though the Home and Garden Business typically peaks during the first six months of the calendar year (Spectrum’s second and third fiscal quarters). Small Appliances peaks from July through December primarily due to the increased demand by customers in the late summer for “back-to-school” sales and in the fall for the holiday season. As a result of this seasonality, our inventory and working capital needs fluctuate significantly during the year. In addition, orders from retailers are often made late in the period preceding the applicable peak season, making forecasting of production schedules and inventory purchases difficult. If we are unable to accurately forecast and prepare for customer orders or our working capital needs, or there is a general downturn in business or economic conditions during these periods, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to significant international business risks that could hurt our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. Approximately 44% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010 were from customers outside of the U.S. Our pursuit of international growth opportunities may require significant investments for an extended period before returns on these investments, if any, are realized. Our international operations are subject to risks including, among others: • currency fluctuations, including, without limitation, fluctuations in the foreign exchange rate of the Euro; • changes in the economic conditions or consumer preferences or demand for our products in these markets; • the risk that because our brand names may not be locally recognized, we must spend significant amounts of time and money to build brand recognition without certainty that we will be successful; • labor unrest; • political and economic instability, as a result of terrorist attacks, natural disasters or otherwise; • lack of developed infrastructure; • longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts; • restrictions on transfers of funds; • import and export duties and quotas, as well as general transportation costs; • changes in domestic and international customs and tariffs; • changes in foreign labor laws and regulations affecting our ability to hire and retain employees; • inadequate protection of intellectual property in foreign countries; • unexpected changes in regulatory environments; 20 Table of Contents • difficulty in complying with foreign law; • difficulty in obtaining distribution and support; and • adverse tax consequences. The foregoing factors may have a material adverse effect on our ability to increase or maintain our supply of products, financial condition or results of operations. Adverse weather conditions during our peak selling season for our home and garden control products could have a material adverse effect on our Home and Garden Business. Weather conditions in the U.S. have a significant impact on the timing and volume of sales of certain of our lawn and garden and household insecticide and repellent products. Periods of dry, hot weather can decrease insecticide sales, while periods of cold and wet weather can slow sales of herbicides. Our products utilize certain key raw materials; any increase in the price of, or change in supply and demand for, these raw materials could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profits. The principal raw materials used to produce our products—including zinc powder, electrolytic manganese dioxide powder, petroleum-based plastic materials, steel, aluminum, copper and corrugated materials (for packaging)—are sourced either on a global or regional basis by us or our suppliers, and the prices of those raw materials are susceptible to price fluctuations due to supply and demand trends, energy costs, transportation costs, government regulations, duties and tariffs, changes in currency exchange rates, price controls, general economic conditions and other unforeseen circumstances. In particular, during 2007 and 2008, and to date in 2010, we experienced extraordinary price increases for raw materials, particularly as a result of strong demand from China. Although we may increase the prices of certain of our goods to our customers, we may not be able to pass all of these cost increases on to our customers. As a result, our margins may be adversely impacted by such cost increases. We cannot provide any assurance that our sources of supply will not be interrupted due to changes in worldwide supply of or demand for raw materials or other events that interrupt material flow, which may have an adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. We regularly engage in forward purchase and hedging derivative transactions in an attempt to effectively manage and stabilize some of the raw material costs we expect to incur over the next 12 to 24 months; however, our hedging positions may not be effective, or may not anticipate beneficial trends, in a particular raw material market or may, as a result of changes in our business, no longer be useful for us. In addition, for certain of the principal raw materials we use to produce our products, such as electrolytic manganese dioxide powder, there are no available effective hedging markets. If these efforts are not effective or expose us to above average costs for an extended period of time, and we are unable to pass our raw materials costs on to our customers, our future profitability may be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, with respect to transportation costs, certain modes of delivery are subject to fuel surcharges which are determined based upon the current cost of diesel fuel in relation to pre-established agreed upon costs. We may be unable to pass these fuel surcharges on to our customers, which may have an adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. In addition, we have exclusivity arrangements and minimum purchase requirements with certain of our suppliers for the Home and Garden Business, which increase our dependence upon and exposure to those suppliers. Some of those agreements include caps on the price we pay for our supplies and in certain instances, these caps have allowed us to purchase materials at below market prices. When we attempt to renew those contracts, the other parties to the contracts may not be willing to include or may limit the effect of those caps and could even attempt to impose above market prices in an effort to make up for any below market prices paid by us prior to the renewal of the agreement. Any failure to timely obtain suitable supplies at competitive prices could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents We may not be able to fully utilize our U.S. net operating loss carryforwards. As of September 30, 2010, Spectrum Brands had U.S. federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $1,087 million and $936 million, respectively. These net operating loss carryforwards expire through years ending in 2031. As of September 30, 2010, our management determined that it continues to be more likely than not that the net U.S. deferred tax asset, excluding certain indefinite lived intangibles, will not be realized in the future and as such recorded a full valuation allowance to offset the net U.S. deferred tax asset, including Spectrum Brands’ net operating loss carryforwards. In addition, Spectrum Brands has had changes of ownership, as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “IRC”), that continue to subject a significant amount of Spectrum Brands’ U.S. net operating losses and other tax attributes to certain limitations. We estimate that approximately $296 million of our federal and $463 million of our state net operating losses will expire unused due to the limitation in Section 382 of the IRC. As a consequence of the Salton-Applica Merger, as well as earlier business combinations and issuances of common stock consummated by both companies, use of the tax benefits of Russell Hobbs’ loss carryforwards is also subject to limitations imposed by Section 382 of the IRC. The determination of the limitations is complex and requires significant judgment and analysis of past transactions. Our analysis to determine what portion of Russell Hobbs’ carryforwards are restricted or eliminated by that provision is ongoing and, pursuant to such analysis, we expect that a significant portion of these carryforwards will not be available to offset future taxable income, if any. In addition, use of Russell Hobbs’ net operating loss and credit carryforwards is dependent upon both Russell Hobbs and us achieving profitable results in the future. The Russell Hobbs’ net operating loss carryforwards are subject to a full valuation allowance at September 30, 2010. If we are unable to fully utilize our net operating losses, other than those restricted under Section 382 of the IRC, as discussed above, to offset taxable income generated in the future, our results of operations could be materially and negatively impacted. Consolidation of retailers and our dependence on a small number of key customers for a significant percentage of our sales may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of consolidation of retailers and consumer trends toward national mass merchandisers, a significant percentage of our sales are attributable to a very limited group of customers. Our largest customer accounted for approximately 22% of our consolidated net sales for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010. As these mass merchandisers and retailers grow larger and become more sophisticated, they may demand lower pricing, special packaging, or impose other requirements on product suppliers. These business demands may relate to inventory practices, logistics, or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. Because of the importance of these key customers, demands for price reductions or promotions, reductions in their purchases, changes in their financial condition or loss of their accounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we have long-established relationships with many of our customers, we do not have long-term agreements with them and purchases are generally made through the use of individual purchase orders. Any significant reduction in purchases, failure to obtain anticipated orders or delays or cancellations of orders by any of these major customers, or significant pressure to reduce prices from any of these major customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, a significant deterioration in the financial condition of the retail industry in general could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. In addition, as a result of the desire of retailers to more closely manage inventory levels, there is a growing trend among them to purchase products on a “just-in-time” basis. Due to a number of factors, including (i) manufacturing lead-times, (ii) seasonal purchasing patterns and (iii) the potential for material price increases, we may be required to shorten our lead-time for production and more closely anticipate our retailers’ and customers’ demands, which could in the future require us to carry additional inventories and increase our 22 Table of Contents working capital and related financing requirements. This may increase the cost of warehousing inventory or result in excess inventory becoming difficult to manage, unusable or obsolete. In addition, if our retailers significantly change their inventory management strategies, we may encounter difficulties in filling customer orders or in liquidating excess inventories, or may find that customers are cancelling orders or returning products, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, we primarily sell branded products and a move by one or more of our large customers to sell significant quantities of private label products, which we do not produce on their behalf and which directly compete with our products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of our international operations, we face a number of risks related to exchange rates and foreign currencies. Our international sales and certain of our expenses are transacted in foreign currencies. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010, approximately 44% of both our net sales and our operating expenses were denominated in foreign currencies. We expect that the amount of our revenues and expenses transacted in foreign currencies will increase as our Latin American, European and Asian operations grow and, as a result, our exposure to risks associated with foreign currencies could increase accordingly. Significant changes in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to foreign currencies will affect our cost of goods sold and our operating margins and could result in exchange losses or otherwise have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect our sales to, purchases from and loans to our subsidiaries as well as sales to, purchases from and bank lines of credit with our customers, suppliers and creditors that are denominated in foreign currencies. We source many products from, and sell many products in, China and other Asian countries. To the extent the Chinese Renminbi (“RMB”) or other currencies appreciate with respect to the U.S. dollar, we may experience fluctuations in our results of operations. Since 2005, the RMB has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar at a constant exchange rate and instead fluctuates versus a basket of currencies. Although the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate within a flexible peg range against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future Chinese authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure to currency fluctuations. Further, we may not be successful in implementing customer pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate the impact of currency fluctuations and, thus, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. A deterioration in trade relations with China could lead to a substantial increase in tariffs imposed on goods of Chinese origin, which potentially could reduce demand for and sales of our products. We purchase a number of our products and supplies from suppliers located in China. China gained Permanent Normal Trade Relations (“PNTR”) with the U.S. when it acceded to the World Trade Organization (“WTO”), effective January 2002. The U.S. imposes the lowest applicable tariffs on exports from PNTR countries to the U.S. In order to maintain its WTO membership, China has agreed to several requirements, including the elimination of caps on foreign ownership of Chinese companies, lowering tariffs and publicizing its laws. China may not meet these requirements, it may not remain a member of the WTO, and its PNTR trading status may not be maintained. If China’s WTO membership is withdrawn or if PNTR status for goods produced in China were removed, there could be a substantial increase in tariffs imposed on goods of Chinese origin entering the U.S. which could have a material negative adverse effect on our sales and gross margin. 23 Table of Contents Our international operations may expose us to risks related to compliance with the laws and regulations of foreign countries. We are subject to three EU Directives that may have a material impact on our business: Restriction of the Use of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, Waste of Electrical and Electronic Equipment and the Directive on Batteries and Accumulators and Waste Batteries, discussed below. Restriction of the Use of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment requires us to eliminate specified hazardous materials from products we sell in EU member states. Waste of Electrical and Electronic Equipment requires us to collect and treat, dispose of or recycle certain products we manufacture or import into the EU at our own expense. The EU Directive on Batteries and Accumulators and Waste Batteries bans heavy metals in batteries by establishing maximum quantities of heavy metals in batteries and mandates waste management of these batteries, including collection, recycling and disposal systems, with the costs imposed upon producers and importers such as us. Complying or failing to comply with the EU Directives may harm our business. For example: • Although contracts with our suppliers address related compliance issues, we may be unable to procure appropriate Restriction of the Use of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment compliant material in sufficient quantity and quality and/or be able to incorporate it into our product procurement processes without compromising quality and/or harming our cost structure. • We may face excess and obsolete inventory risk related to non-compliant inventory that we may continue to hold in fiscal 2010 for which there is reduced demand, and we may need to write down the carrying value of such inventories. • We may be unable to sell certain existing inventories of our batteries in Europe. Many of the developing countries in which we operate do not have significant governmental regulation relating to environmental safety, occupational safety, employment practices or other business matters routinely regulated in the U.S. or may not rigorously enforce such regulation. As these countries and their economies develop, it is possible that new regulations or increased enforcement of existing regulations may increase the expense of doing business in these countries. In addition, social legislation in many countries in which we operate may result in significantly higher expenses associated with labor costs, terminating employees or distributors and closing manufacturing facilities. Increases in our costs as a result of increased regulation, legislation or enforcement could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to adequately establish and protect our intellectual property rights, and the infringement or loss of our intellectual property rights could harm our business. To establish and protect our intellectual property rights, we rely upon a combination of national, foreign and multi-national patent, trademark and trade secret laws, together with licenses, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements. The measures that we take to protect our intellectual property rights may prove inadequate to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our intellectual property. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights. If a competitor or collaborator files a patent application claiming technology also claimed by us, or a trademark application claiming a trademark, service mark or trade dress also used by us, in order to protect our rights, we may have to participate in expensive and time consuming opposition or interference proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or a similar foreign agency. Similarly, our intellectual property rights may be challenged by third parties or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. The costs associated with protecting intellectual property rights, including litigation costs, may be material. For example, our Small Appliances segment has spent several million dollars on protecting its patented automatic litter box business over the last few years. Furthermore, even if our intellectual property rights are not directly challenged, disputes among third parties could lead to the weakening or invalidation of our intellectual property rights, or our competitors may independently develop 24 Table of Contents technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Obtaining, protecting and defending intellectual property rights can be time consuming and expensive, and may require us to incur substantial costs, including the diversion of the time and resources of management and technical personnel. Moreover, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we operate or may operate in the future do not protect, and the governments of certain foreign countries do not enforce, intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws and government of the U.S., which may negate our competitive or technological advantages in such markets. Also, some of the technology underlying our products is the subject of nonexclusive licenses from third parties. As a result, this technology could be made available to our competitors at any time. If we are unable to establish and then adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We license various trademarks, trade names and patents from third parties for certain of our products. These licenses generally place marketing obligations on us and require us to pay fees and royalties based on net sales or profits. Typically, these licenses may be terminated if we fail to satisfy certain minimum sales obligations or if we breach the terms of the license. The termination of these licensing arrangements could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In our Small Appliances segment, we license the use of the Black & Decker brand for marketing in certain small household appliances in North America, South America (excluding Brazil) and the Caribbean. Sales of Black & Decker branded products represented approximately 53% of the total consolidated revenue of our Small Appliances segment in both Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009. In December 2007, BDC extended the license agreement through December 2012, with an automatic extension through December 2014 if certain milestones are met regarding sales volume and product return. The failure to renew the license agreement with BDC or to enter into a new agreement on acceptable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Claims by third parties that we are infringing their intellectual property and other litigation could adversely affect our business. From time to time in the past we have been subject to claims that we are infringing the intellectual property of others. We currently are the subject of such claims and it is possible that third parties will assert infringement claims against us in the future. An adverse finding against us in these or similar trademark or other intellectual property litigations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive, and may require us to incur substantial costs, including the diversion of the resources of management and technical personnel, cause product delays or require us to enter into licensing or other agreements in order to secure continued access to necessary or desirable intellectual property. If we are deemed to be infringing a third party’s intellectual property and are unable to continue using that intellectual property as we had been, our business and results of operations could be harmed if we are unable to successfully develop non-infringing alternative intellectual property on a timely basis or license non-infringing alternatives or substitutes, if any exist, on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, an unfavorable ruling in intellectual property litigation could subject us to significant liability, as well as require us to cease developing, manufacturing or selling the affected products or using the affected processes or trademarks. Any significant restriction on our proprietary or licensed intellectual property that impedes our ability to develop and commercialize our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Our dependence on a few suppliers and one of our U.S. facilities for certain of our products makes us vulnerable to a disruption in the supply of our products. Although we have long-standing relationships with many of our suppliers, we generally do not have long-term contracts with them. An adverse change in any of the following could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: • our ability to identify and develop relationships with qualified suppliers; • the terms and conditions upon which we purchase products from our suppliers, including applicable exchange rates, transport costs and other costs, our suppliers’ willingness to extend credit to us to finance our inventory purchases and other factors beyond our control; • the financial condition of our suppliers; • political instability in the countries in which our suppliers are located; • our ability to import outsourced products; • our suppliers’ noncompliance with applicable laws, trade restrictions and tariffs; or • our suppliers’ ability to manufacture and deliver outsourced products according to our standards of quality on a timely and efficient basis. If our relationship with one of our key suppliers is adversely affected, we may not be able to quickly or effectively replace such supplier and may not be able to retrieve tooling, molds or other specialized production equipment or processes used by such supplier in the manufacture of our products. In addition, we manufacture the majority of our foil cutting systems for our shaving product lines, using specially designed machines and proprietary cutting technology, at our Portage, Wisconsin facility. Damage to this facility, or prolonged interruption in the operations of this facility for repairs, as a result of labor difficulties or for other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture and sell our foil shaving products which could in turn harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks related to our sales of products obtained from third-party suppliers. We sell a significant number of products that are manufactured by third party suppliers over which we have no direct control. While we have implemented processes and procedures to try to ensure that the suppliers we use are complying with all applicable regulations, there can be no assurances that such suppliers in all instances will comply with such processes and procedures or otherwise with applicable regulations. Noncompliance could result in our marketing and distribution of contaminated, defective or dangerous products which could subject us to liabilities and could result in the imposition by governmental authorities of procedures or penalties that could restrict or eliminate our ability to purchase products from non-compliant suppliers. Any or all of these effects could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Class action and derivative action lawsuits and other investigations, regardless of their merits, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and certain of our officers and directors have been named in the past, and may be named in the future, as defendants of class action and derivative action lawsuits. In the past, we have also received requests for information from government authorities. Regardless of their subject matter or merits, class action lawsuits and other government investigations may result in significant cost to us, which may not be covered by insurance, may divert the attention of management or may otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents We may be exposed to significant product liability claims which our insurance may not cover and which could harm our reputation. In the ordinary course of our business, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits involving product liability claims. In any such proceeding, plaintiffs may seek to recover large and sometimes unspecified amounts of damages and the matters may remain unresolved for several years. Any such matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to successfully defend against or settle these matters or if our insurance coverage is insufficient to satisfy any judgments against us or settlements relating to these matters. Although we have product liability insurance coverage and an excess umbrella policy, our insurance policies may not provide coverage for certain, or any, claims against us or may not be sufficient to cover all possible liabilities. Additionally, we do not maintain product recall insurance. We may not be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, in the future. Moreover, any adverse publicity arising from claims made against us, even if the claims were not successful, could adversely affect the reputation and sales of our products. In particular, product recalls or product liability claims challenging the safety of our products may result in a decline in sales for a particular product. This could be true even if the claims themselves are ultimately settled for immaterial amounts. This type of adverse publicity could occur and product liability claims could be made in the future. We may incur material capital and other costs due to environmental liabilities. We are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local, foreign and multi-national laws and regulations relating to the environment. These include laws and regulations that govern: • discharges to the air, water and land; • the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes; and • remediation of contamination associated with release of hazardous substances at our facilities and at off-site disposal locations. Risk of environmental liability is inherent in our business. As a result, material environmental costs may arise in the future. In particular, we may incur capital and other costs to comply with increasingly stringent environmental laws and enforcement policies, such as the EU Directives: Restriction of the Use of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, Waste of Electrical and Electronic Equipment and the Directive on Batteries and Accumulators and Waste Batteries, discussed above. Moreover, there are proposed international accords and treaties, as well as federal, state and local laws and regulations, that would attempt to control or limit the causes of climate change, including the effect of greenhouse gas emissions on the environment. In the event that the U.S. government or foreign governments enact new climate change laws or regulations or make changes to existing laws or regulations, compliance with applicable laws or regulations may result in increased manufacturing costs for our products, such as by requiring investment in new pollution control equipment or changing the ways in which certain of our products are made. We may incur some of these costs directly and others may be passed on to us from our third-party suppliers. Although we believe that we are substantially in compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations at our facilities, we may not always be in compliance with such laws and regulations or any new laws and regulations in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we have been required to address the effect of historic activities on the environmental condition of our properties or former properties. We have not conducted invasive testing at all of our facilities to identify all potential environmental liability risks. Given the age of our facilities and the nature of our operations, material liabilities may arise in the future in connection with our current or former facilities. If previously unknown contamination of property underlying or in the vicinity of our manufacturing facilities is discovered, we could be required to incur material unforeseen expenses. If this occurs, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are currently engaged in investigative or remedial projects at a few of our facilities and any liabilities arising from such investigative or remedial projects at such facilities may have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents We are also subject to proceedings related to our disposal of industrial and hazardous material at off-site disposal locations or similar disposals made by other parties for which we are responsible as a result of our relationship with such other parties. These proceedings are under CERCLA or similar state or foreign jurisdiction laws that hold persons who “arranged for” the disposal or treatment of such substances strictly liable for costs incurred in responding to the release or threatened release of hazardous substances from such sites, regardless of fault or the lawfulness of the original disposal. Liability under CERCLA is typically joint and several, meaning that a liable party may be responsible for all of the costs incurred in investigating and remediating contamination at a site. We occasionally are identified by federal or state governmental agencies as being a potentially responsible party for response actions contemplated at an off-site facility. At the existing sites where we have been notified of our status as a potentially responsible party, it is either premature to determine if our potential liability, if any, will be material or we do not believe that our liability, if any, will be material. We may be named as a potentially responsible party under CERCLA or similar state or foreign jurisdiction laws in the future for other sites not currently known to us, and the costs and liabilities associated with these sites may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with various public health, consumer protection and other regulations applicable to our products and facilities could increase our cost of doing business and expose us to additional requirements with which we may be unable to comply. Certain of our products sold through, and facilities operated under, each of our business segments are regulated by the EPA, the FDA or other federal consumer protection and product safety agencies and are subject to the regulations such agencies enforce, as well as by similar state, foreign and multinational agencies and regulations. For example, in the U.S., all products containing pesticides must be registered with the EPA and, in many cases, similar state and foreign agencies before they can be manufactured or sold. Our inability to obtain, or the cancellation of, any registration could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The severity of the effect would depend on which products were involved, whether another product could be substituted and whether our competitors were similarly affected. We attempt to anticipate regulatory developments and maintain registrations of, and access to, substitute chemicals and other ingredients, but we may not always be able to avoid or minimize these risks. As a distributor of consumer products in the U.S., certain of our products are also subject to the Consumer Product Safety Act, which empowers the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (the “Consumer Commission”) to exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous. Under certain circumstances, the Consumer Commission could require us to repair, replace or refund the purchase price of one or more of our products, or we may voluntarily do so. For example, Russell Hobbs, in cooperation with the Consumer Commission, voluntarily recalled approximately 9,800 units of a thermal coffeemaker sold under the Black & Decker brand in August 2009 and approximately 584,000 coffeemakers in June 2009. Any additional repurchases or recalls of our products could be costly to us and could damage the reputation or the value of our brands. If we are required to remove, or we voluntarily remove our products from the market, our reputation or brands could be tarnished and we may have large quantities of finished products that could not be sold. Furthermore, failure to timely notify the Consumer Commission of a potential safety hazard can result in significant fines being assessed against us. Additionally, laws regulating certain consumer products exist in some states, as well as in other countries in which we sell our products, and more restrictive laws and regulations may be adopted in the future. The FQPA established a standard for food-use pesticides, which is that a reasonable certainty of no harm will result from the cumulative effect of pesticide exposures. Under the FQPA, the EPA is evaluating the cumulative effects from dietary and non-dietary exposures to pesticides. The pesticides in certain of our products that are sold through the Home and Garden Business continue to be evaluated by the EPA as part of this program. It is possible that the EPA or a third party active ingredient registrant may decide that a pesticide we use in our products will be limited or made unavailable to us. We cannot predict the outcome or the severity of the effect of the EPA’s continuing evaluations of active ingredients used in our products. 28 Table of Contents In addition, the use of certain pesticide and fertilizer products that are sold through our global pet supplies business and through the Home and Garden Business may, among other things, be regulated by various local, state, federal and foreign environmental and public health agencies. These regulations may require that only certified or professional users apply the product, that users post notices on properties where products have been or will be applied or that certain ingredients may not be used. Compliance with such public health regulations could increase our cost of doing business and expose us to additional requirements with which we may be unable to comply. Any failure to comply with these laws or regulations, or the terms of applicable environmental permits, could result in us incurring substantial costs, including fines, penalties and other civil and criminal sanctions or the prohibition of sales of our pest control products. Environmental law requirements, and the enforcement thereof, change frequently, have tended to become more stringent over time and could require us to incur significant expenses. Most federal, state and local authorities require certification by Underwriters Laboratory, Inc. (“UL”), an independent, not-for-profit corporation engaged in the testing of products for compliance with certain public safety standards, or other safety regulation certification prior to marketing electrical appliances. Foreign jurisdictions also have regulatory authorities overseeing the safety of consumer products. Our products may not meet the specifications required by these authorities. A determination that any of our products are not in compliance with these rules and regulations could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. Public perceptions that some of the products we produce and market are not safe could adversely affect us. On occasion, customers and some current or former employees have alleged that some products failed to perform up to expectations or have caused damage or injury to individuals or property. Public perception that any of our products are not safe, whether justified or not, could impair our reputation, damage our brand names and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to negotiate satisfactory terms to continue existing or enter into additional collective bargaining agreements, we may experience an increased risk of labor disruptions and our results of operations and financial condition may suffer. Approximately 20% of our total labor force is employed under collective bargaining agreements. One of these agreements, which covers approximately 12% of the labor force under collective bargaining agreements, or approximately 2% of our total labor force, is scheduled to expire on September 30, 2011. While we currently expect to negotiate continuations to the terms of these agreements, there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain terms that are satisfactory to us or otherwise to reach agreement at all with the applicable parties. In addition, in the course of our business, we may also become subject to additional collective bargaining agreements. These agreements may be on terms that are less favorable than those under our current collective bargaining agreements. Increased exposure to collective bargaining agreements, whether on terms more or less favorable than existing collective bargaining agreements, could adversely affect the operation of our business, including through increased labor expenses. While we intend to comply with all collective bargaining agreements to which we are subject, there can be no assurances that we will be able to do so and any noncompliance could subject us to disruptions in our operations and materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Significant changes in actual investment return on pension assets, discount rates and other factors could affect our results of operations, equity and pension contributions in future periods. Our results of operations may be positively or negatively affected by the amount of income or expense we record for our defined benefit pension plans. GAAP requires that we calculate income or expense for the plans 29 Table of Contents using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions about financial market and other economic conditions, which may change based on changes in key economic indicators. The most significant year-end assumptions we used to estimate pension income or expense are the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. In addition, we are required to make an annual measurement of plan assets and liabilities, which may result in a significant change to equity. Although pension expense and pension funding contributions are not directly related, key economic factors that affect pension expense would also likely affect the amount of cash we would contribute to pension plans as required under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. If our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets or other long-term assets become impaired, we will be required to record additional impairment charges, which may be significant. A significant portion of our long-term assets consist of goodwill, other indefinite-lived intangible assets and finite-lived intangible assets recorded as a result of past acquisitions. We do not amortize goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, but rather review them for impairment on a periodic basis or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. We consider whether circumstances or conditions exist which suggest that the carrying value of our goodwill and other long-lived assets might be impaired. If such circumstances or conditions exist, further steps are required in order to determine whether the carrying value of each of the individual assets exceeds its fair market value. If analysis indicates that an individual asset’s carrying value does exceed its fair market value, the next step is to record a loss equal to the excess of the individual asset’s carrying value over its fair value. The steps required by GAAP entail significant amounts of judgment and subjectivity. Events and changes in circumstances that may indicate that there is impairment and which may indicate that interim impairment testing is necessary include, but are not limited to: strategic decisions to exit a business or dispose of an asset made in response to changes in economic; political and competitive conditions; the impact of the economic environment on the customer base and on broad market conditions that drive valuation considerations by market participants; our internal expectations with regard to future revenue growth and the assumptions we make when performing impairment reviews; a significant decrease in the market price of our assets; a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which our assets are used; a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business climate that could affect our assets; an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the acquisition of an asset; and significant changes in the cash flows associated with an asset. As a result of such circumstances, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets or other long-term assets is determined. Any such impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to SB Holdings’ Common Stock The Harbinger Parties and, following the Share Exchange, HRG, will exercise significant influence over us and their interests in our business may be different from the interests of our stockholders. As a result of the consummation of the Merger and other transactions, as of the date hereof, the Harbinger Parties beneficially owned approximately 67% of our outstanding common stock. Upon consummation of the Share Exchange, HRG will own approximately 54% of our outstanding common stock and the remaining Harbinger Parties will own approximately 13% of our outstanding common stock. The Harbinger Parties will own approximately 93% of the outstanding common stock of HRG. The Harbinger Parties and, assuming the consummation of the Share Exchange, HRG, both separately and in conjunction with the Harbinger Parties, will have the ability to influence the outcome of any corporate action by us, which requires stockholder approval, including, but not limited to, the election of directors, approval of merger transactions and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, we are a party to a stockholder agreement with HRG and the Harbinger Parties. 30 Table of Contents This influence and actual control may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire SB Holdings because any such consummation would likely require the consent of HRG and perhaps HRG and the Harbinger Parties. HRG and the Harbinger Parties may also delay or prevent a change in control of SB Holdings. See “Risks Related to our Business—Assuming consummation of a pending transaction by which Harbinger Group, Inc. (“HRG”) would acquire a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock, any sale or other disposition by HRG to non-affiliates of a significant amount of the common stock of SB Holdings would constitute a change of control under the agreements governing Spectrum Brands’ debt.” In addition, because, as of the date hereof the Harbinger Parties owned, and, assuming the consummation of the Share Exchange, HRG and the Harbinger Parties will own more than 50% of the voting power of SB Holdings, SB Holdings is considered a controlled company under the NYSE listing standards. As such, the NYSE corporate governance rules requiring that a majority of SB Holdings’ board of directors and SB Holdings’ entire compensation committee be independent do not apply. As a result, the ability of SB Holdings’ independent directors to influence its business policies and affairs may be reduced. If HRG and/or the Harbinger Parties sell substantial amounts of SB Holdings’ common stock in the public market, or investors perceive that these sales could occur, the market price of SB Holdings’ common stock could be adversely affected. SB Holdings has entered into a registration rights agreement (the “Registration Rights Agreement”) with HRG, the Harbinger Parties and certain other stockholders. If requested properly under the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement, these stockholders have the right to require SB Holdings to register all or some of such shares for sale under the Securities Act in certain circumstances and also have the right to include those shares in a registration initiated by SB Holdings. If SB Holdings is required to include the shares of its common stock held by these stockholders pursuant to these registration rights in a registration initiated by SB Holdings, sales made by such stockholders may adversely affect the price of SB Holdings’ common stock and SB Holdings’ ability to raise needed capital. In addition, if these stockholders exercise their demand registration rights and cause a large number of shares to be registered and sold in the public market or demand that SB Holdings register their shares on a shelf registration statement, such sales or shelf registration may have an adverse effect on the market price of SB Holdings’ common stock. The interests of HRG and the Harbinger Parties, which have investments in other companies, may from time to time diverge from the interests of other SB Holdings stockholders and from each other, particularly with regard to new investment opportunities. Neither HRG nor the Harbinger Parties are restricted from investing in other businesses involving or related to the marketing or distribution of household products, pet and pest products and personal care products. Both HRG and the Harbinger Parties may also engage in other businesses that compete or may in the future compete with SB Holdings. Even though SB Holdings’ common stock is currently traded on the NYSE, it has less liquidity than many other stocks quoted on a national securities exchange. The trading volume in SB Holdings’ common stock on the NYSE has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the NYSE or other stock exchanges. Because of this, it may be more difficult for stockholders to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which stockholders could sell a smaller number of shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of SB Holdings’ common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of its common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of SB Holdings’ common stock. We can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of SB Holdings’ common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of SB Holdings’ common stock to decline or impair SB Holdings’ future ability to raise capital through sales of its common stock. Furthermore, because of the limited market and generally low volume of trading in SB Holdings’ common stock that could occur, the share price of its common stock could be more likely to be affected by broad market fluctuations, general market conditions, fluctuations in our operating results, changes in the market’s perception of our business, and announcements made by SB Holdings, its competitors or parties with whom SB Holdings has business relationships. The lack of liquidity in SB Holdings’ common stock may 31 Table of Contents also make it difficult for us to issue additional securities for financing or other purposes, or to otherwise arrange for any financing we may need in the future. In addition, we may experience other adverse effects, including, without limitation, the loss of confidence in us by current and prospective suppliers, customers, employees and others with whom we have or may seek to initiate business relationships. The market price of SB Holdings’ common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. Factors that may influence the price of the common stock include, without limitation, the following: • loss of any of our key customers or suppliers; • additions or departures of key personnel; • sales of the common stock; • our ability to execute our business plan; • operating results that fall below expectations; • additional issuances of the common stock; • low volume of sales due to concentrated ownership of the common stock; • intellectual property disputes; • industry developments; • economic and other external factors; • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; and • market concerns with respect to the potential indirect impact of matters not directly involving SB Holdings but impacting HRG or the Harbinger Parties. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of the common stock. You should also be aware that price volatility might be worse if the trading volume of shares of the common stock is low. Additional issuances of SB Holdings’ common stock may result in dilution to its existing stockholders. As of September 30, 2010, we had two active equity incentive plans under which shares of the Company could be issued, the 2009 Spectrum Brands Inc. Incentive Plan (the “2009 Plan”) and the Spectrum Brands Holdings, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Equity Award Plan (the “RH Plan”). On October 21, 2010, the our Board of Directors adopted the Spectrum Brands Holdings, Inc. 2011 Omnibus Equity Award Plan (“2011 Plan”), subject to shareholder approval prior to October 21, 2011 and we intend to submit the 2011 Plan for shareholder approval in connection with our next Annual Meeting. Upon such shareholder approval, no further awards will be granted under the 2009 Plan and the 2007 RH Plan. 4,625,676 shares of our common stock of the Company, net of cancellations, may be issued under the 2011 Plan. While we have begun granting awards under the 2011 Plan, the 2011 Plan (and awards granted thereunder) are subject to the approval by a majority of the holders of our common stock eligible to vote thereon prior to October 21, 2011. As December 10, 2010, we have issued 667,933 restricted shares and 1,694,048 restricted stock units under the 2009 Plan, the RH Plan and the 2011 Plan and are authorized to issue up to a total of 3,202,590 shares of our common stock, or options or restricted stock units exercisable for shares of common stock. In addition, our board of directors has the authority to issue additional shares of capital stock to provide additional financing or for other purposes in the future. The issuance of any such shares or exercise of any such 32 Table of Contents options may result in a reduction of the book value or market price of the outstanding shares of common stock. If we do issue any such additional shares or any such options are exercised, such issuance or exercise also will cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all other stockholders. As a result of such dilution, the proportionate ownership interest and voting power of a holder of shares of common stock could be decreased. Further, any such issuance or exercise could result in a change of control. Under our certificate of incorporation, holders of 5% or more of the outstanding common stock or capital stock into which any shares of common stock may be converted have certain rights to purchase their pro rata share of certain future issuances of securities. Spectrum Brands has historically not paid dividends on its public common stock and we do not anticipate paying dividends on our public common stock in the foreseeable future, and, therefore, any return on investment may be limited to the value of the common stock. Spectrum Brands, prior to the Merger had not declared or paid dividends on its common stock since the stock commenced public trading in 1997, we have not declared or paid dividends on our common stock since the stock commenced public trading in 2010, and while we continue to evaluate the potential payment of dividends, we do not currently anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on outstanding common stock will depend on earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at such time as our board of directors may consider relevant, including the ability to do so under our credit and other debt agreements. If we do not pay dividends, returns on an investment in our common stock will only occur if the stock price appreciates. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 33 Table of Contents 