ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks and uncertainties, together with all other information in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, should be considered carefully. Any of the risk factors we describe below could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, and could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. Risks Relating to Our Business and Strategy We may not be able to generate sufficient revenue from FoundationOne, FoundationOne Heme, or our relationships with our biopharmaceutical partners to achieve and maintain profitability. We believe our commercial success is dependent upon our ability to successfully market and sell our first molecular information products, FoundationOne for solid tumors and FoundationOne Heme for blood-based cancers, or hematologic malignancies, to physicians in clinical practice, to continue to expand our current relationships and develop new relationships with biopharmaceutical partners, and to develop and commercialize new molecular information products. The demand for FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme may decrease or may not continue to increase at historical rates for a number of reasons. In addition, FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme do not yet have coverage contracts with or coverage decisions from commercial third-party payors and government payors, including Medicare. We have experienced early revenue growth from the sale of each of FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme to physicians, principally since their formal commercial launches in June 2012 and December 2013, respectively. We may not be able to continue revenue growth or maintain existing revenue levels. Our biopharmaceutical partners may decide to decrease or discontinue their use of our molecular information platform due to changes in research and product development plans, failures in their clinical trials, financial constraints, or utilization of internal molecular testing resources or molecular tests performed by other parties, which are circumstances outside of our control. In addition to reducing our revenue, this may reduce our exposure to early stage research that facilitates the incorporation of newly developed information about cancer into our molecular information platform, FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme. We are currently not profitable. Even if we succeed in increasing adoption of FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme by physicians, maintaining and creating relationships with our existing and new biopharmaceutical partners and developing and commercializing additional molecular information products, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to achieve profitability. 41 Table of Contents FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme may never achieve significant commercial market acceptance. FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme may never gain significant acceptance in the marketplace and, therefore, may never generate substantial revenue or profits for us. Our ability to achieve commercial market acceptance for FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme will depend on several factors, including: • our ability to convince the medical community of the clinical utility of our products and their potential advantages over existing molecular tests; • the willingness of physicians and patients to utilize our products; and • the agreement by commercial third-party payors and government payors to reimburse our products, the scope and amount of which will affect patients’ willingness or ability to pay for our products and likely heavily influence physicians’ decisions to recommend our products. In addition, physicians may rely on guidelines issued by industry groups, such as the National Comprehensive Cancer Network, medical societies, such as the College of American Pathologists, or other key oncology-related organizations before utilizing any diagnostic test. Although we have a number of company-sponsored clinical trials and clinical trials sponsored by individual physicians, or investigator-initiated clinical trials, underway to demonstrate the clinical utility of each of FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme, they are not yet, and may never be, listed in any such guidelines. We believe that the successful completion of clinical trials, publication of scientific and medical results in peer-reviewed journals, and presentations at leading conferences are critical to the broad adoption of FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme. Publication in leading medical journals is subject to a peer-review process, and peer reviewers may not consider the results of studies involving FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme sufficiently novel or worthy of publication. The failure to be listed in physician guidelines or the failure of our trials to produce favorable results or to be published in peer-reviewed journals could limit the adoption of our products. Failure to achieve widespread market acceptance of FoundationOne or FoundationOne Heme would materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We rely on a limited number of suppliers or, in some cases, sole suppliers, for some of our laboratory instruments and materials and may not be able to find replacements or immediately transition to alternative suppliers. We rely on several sole suppliers, including Illumina, for certain laboratory substances used in the chemical reactions incorporated into our processes, or reagents, sequencers, equipment, and other materials which we use in our laboratory operations. An interruption in our laboratory operations could occur if we encounter delays or difficulties in securing these reagents, sequencers, or other laboratory materials, and if we cannot then obtain an acceptable substitute. Any such interruption could significantly affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and reputation. We rely on Illumina as the sole supplier of the sequencers and various associated reagents, and as the sole provider of maintenance and repair services for these sequencers. Any disruption in Illumina’s operations could impact our supply chain and laboratory operations of our molecular information platform and our ability to conduct our business and generate revenue. We believe that there are only a few other equipment manufacturers that are currently capable of supplying and servicing the equipment necessary for our laboratory operations, including sequencers and various associated reagents. The use of equipment or materials furnished by these replacement suppliers would require us to alter our laboratory operations. Transitioning to a new supplier would be time consuming and expensive, may result in interruptions in our laboratory operations, would likely affect the performance specifications of our laboratory operations, and would require that we revalidate FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure alternative equipment, reagents, and other materials, and bring such equipment, reagents, and materials on line and revalidate them without experiencing interruptions in our 42 Table of Contents workflow. In the case of an alternative supplier for Illumina, there can be no assurance that replacement sequencers and various associated reagents will be available or will meet our quality control and performance requirements for our laboratory operations. If we should encounter delays or difficulties in securing, reconfiguring, or revalidating the equipment and reagents we require for our products, our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation could be adversely affected. If our sole laboratory facility becomes damaged or inoperable or we are required to vacate our laboratory facility, our ability to conduct our genomic analyses and pursue our research and development efforts may be jeopardized. We currently derive all of our revenue from tests conducted at a single laboratory facility located in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Our facility and equipment could be harmed or rendered inoperable by natural or man-made disasters, including war, fire, earthquake, power loss, communications failure, or terrorism, which may render it difficult or impossible for us to operate our molecular information platform for some period of time. The inability to perform our molecular tests or to reduce the backlog of analyses that could develop if our facility is inoperable, for even a short period of time, may result in the loss of customers or harm to our reputation, and we may be unable to regain those customers or repair our reputation in the future. Furthermore, our facility and the equipment we use to perform our research and development work could be unavailable or costly and time-consuming to repair or replace. It would be difficult, time-consuming, and expensive to rebuild our facility or license or transfer our proprietary technology to a third-party, particularly in light of the licensure and accreditation requirements for a commercial laboratory like ours. Even in the unlikely event we are able to find a third party with such qualifications to enable us to conduct our molecular tests, we may be unable to negotiate commercially reasonable terms. In October 2013, we finished moving our laboratory into a new facility at our new corporate headquarters in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Our laboratory operations in the new corporate headquarters may achieve slower realization of laboratory efficiencies than we anticipate, resulting in our inability to meet customer turnaround time expectations. We carry insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business, but this insurance may not cover all of the risks associated with damage or disruption to our business, may not provide coverage in amounts sufficient to cover our potential losses, and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to support demand for FoundationOne, FoundationOne Heme and our future products, including ensuring that we have adequate capacity to meet increased demand, or we are unable to successfully manage the evolution of our molecular information platform, our business could suffer. As our volume grows, we will need to continue to increase our workflow capacity for sample intake, customer service, billing and general process improvements, expand our internal quality assurance program, and extend our platform to support comprehensive genomic analyses at a larger scale within expected turnaround times. We will need additional certified laboratory scientists and other scientific and technical personnel to process higher volumes of our molecular information products. Portions of our process are not automated and will require additional personnel to scale. We will also need to purchase additional equipment, some of which can take several months or more to procure, setup, and validate, and increase our software and computing capacity to meet increased demand. There is no assurance that any of these increases in scale, expansion of personnel, equipment, software and computing capacities, or process enhancements will be successfully implemented, or that we will have adequate space in our laboratory facility to accommodate such required expansion. As additional products are commercialized, we will need to incorporate new equipment, implement new technology systems and laboratory processes, and hire new personnel with different qualifications. For example, we are now scaling up our RNA sequencing capabilities in connection with our commercial launch of 43 Table of Contents FoundationOne Heme in December 2013, and we believe we are the first company to perform RNA sequencing for clinical testing at our clinical scale. Failure to manage this growth or transition could result in turnaround time delays, higher product costs, declining product quality, deteriorating customer service, and slower responses to competitive challenges. A failure in any one of these areas could make it difficult for us to meet market expectations for our products, and could damage our reputation and the prospects for our business. New product development involves a lengthy and complex process, and we may be unable to successfully commercialize FoundationOne Heme or any other products we may develop on a timely basis, or at all. FoundationOne Heme, which we launched in December 2013 for hematologic cancers, including leukemia, lymphoma and myeloma, as well as pediatric cancers and many sarcomas, will take time to successfully commercialize. There can be no assurance that FoundationOne Heme will be successful in the evaluation of blood-based cancers for a variety of technical and market reasons. Our other new molecular information products, which are in various stages of early development, will take time to develop and commercialize, if we are able to commercialize them at all. There can be no assurance that our new products will be capable of reliably identifying relevant genomic alterations in forms of cancer other than cancers found in solid tumors. Before we can commercialize any new products, we will need to expend significant funds in order to: • conduct substantial research and development, including validation studies and potentially clinical trials; • further develop and scale our laboratory processes to accommodate different products; and • further develop and scale our infrastructure to be able to analyze increasingly large amounts of data. Our product development process involves a high degree of risk, and product development efforts may fail for many reasons, including: • failure of the product to perform as expected at the research or development stage; • lack of validation data; or • failure to demonstrate the clinical utility of the product. As we develop products, we will have to make significant investments in product development, marketing, and selling resources. In addition, competitors may develop and commercialize competing products faster than we are able to do so. If we cannot compete successfully with our competitors, we may be unable to increase or sustain our revenue or achieve and sustain profitability. Personalized genomic diagnostics is a new area of science, and we face competition from companies that offer products or have conducted research to profile genes and gene expression in various cancers. Our principal competition comes from diagnostic companies that offer molecular diagnostic tests that capture only a single-marker or test panels that capture a limited number of the most well-known gene alterations, which are also known as hotspot panel tests. In addition, academic research centers, diagnostic companies and next generation sequencing, or NGS, platform developers are offering or developing NGS-based testing. Our competitors include laboratory companies such as Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc., Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, as well as companies such as Abbott Laboratories, Qiagen N.V., Roche Molecular Systems, Inc. and Sequenom, Inc. that manufacture or may manufacture diagnostic testing kits. In addition, companies such as Genomic Health, Inc. and Myriad Genetics, Inc. have well-established commercial organizations that sell molecular diagnostic tests for cancer to physicians and may develop tests which compete with FoundationOne or FoundationOne Heme. 44 Table of Contents Many hospitals and academic medical centers may also seek to perform the type of molecular testing we perform at their own facilities. As such, our competition may include entities such as the University of Michigan, Baylor Medical Genetics Laboratories, Washington University in St. Louis, and other academic hospitals and research centers. In addition, Illumina, Thermo Fisher, and other companies market NGS platforms that are being sold directly to research centers, biopharmaceutical companies, and clinical laboratories. While these platforms have been largely utilized in research and development settings or testing for non-cancer conditions, each of these companies has launched and will likely continue to commercialize products for focused application in the clinical oncology market. We believe diagnostic platform providers will seek to place sequencing machines in laboratories and to develop NGS-based laboratory-developed tests, or LDTs, for use in clinical oncology, including by seeking to decrease the cost, size, and complexity of their platforms. In addition, one diagnostic platform company recently announced that it received FDA-approval for a diagnostic kit for clinical use outside of oncology which is sold to clients who have purchased its platforms. We believe this company and other diagnostic platform providers may develop additional FDA-approved diagnostic kits for clinical use by clients who have purchased their platforms, potentially including for these clients to identify genetic alternations in samples of solid tumors or blood-based cancers. Also, many private companies are developing information technology-based tools to support the integration of NGS testing into the clinical setting. The successful development and marketing of these products by diagnostic platform providers could enable some of our potential customers to perform clinical-grade, comprehensive genomic analysis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. These companies may also use their patent portfolios, developed in connection with developing their tests, to allege that FoundationOne infringes their patents, and we could face litigation with respect to such allegations and the validity of such patents. In addition, because our proprietary molecular information platform consists largely of trade-secret protected technology and know-how and has only limited patent protection, new and existing companies could seek to develop molecular tests that compete with ours. These competitors could have technological, financial, and market access advantages that are not currently available to us. The molecular diagnostic industry is subject to rapidly changing technology which could make our molecular information platform, FoundationOne, FoundationOne Heme, and other products we develop obsolete. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, and evolving industry standards, all of which could make our molecular information platform, FoundationOne, FoundationOne Heme, and the other molecular information products we are developing obsolete. Our future success will depend on our ability to keep pace with the evolving needs of our customers on a timely and cost-effective basis and to pursue new market opportunities that develop as a result of technological and scientific advances. In recent years, there have been numerous advances in technologies relating to the diagnosis and treatment of cancer. There have also been advances in methods used to analyze very large amounts of genomic information. We must continuously enhance our molecular information platform and develop new products to keep pace with evolving standards of care. If we do not update our molecular information platform to reflect new scientific knowledge about cancer biology, information about new cancer therapies, or relevant clinical trials, our molecular information platform could become obsolete and sales of FoundationOne, FoundationOne Heme, and any new products could decline, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If our products do not perform as expected, our operating results, reputation, and business will suffer. Our success depends on the market’s confidence that we can provide reliable, high-quality molecular information products. There is no guarantee that the accuracy and reproducibility we have demonstrated to date will continue, particularly for clinical samples, as our test volume increases. We believe that our customers are likely to be particularly sensitive to product defects and errors, including if our products fail to detect genomic 45 Table of Contents alterations with high accuracy from clinical specimens or if we fail to list, or inaccurately include, certain treatment options and available clinical trials in our test report. As a result, the failure of our products to perform as expected would significantly impair our operating results and our reputation. We may be subject to legal claims arising from any defects or errors. We refer to the efficiency of our sequencing process as its yield. The sequencing process yields that we achieve depend on the design and operation of our sequencing process, which uses a number of complex and sophisticated biochemical, informatics, optical, and mechanical processes, many of which are highly sensitive to external factors. An operational or technological failure in one of these complex processes or fluctuations in external variables may result in sequencing processing yields that are lower than we anticipate or that vary between sequencing runs. In addition, we are regularly evaluating and refining our sequencing process. These refinements may initially result in unanticipated issues that further reduce our sequencing process yields or increase the variability of our sequencing process yields. Low sequencing process yields, or higher than anticipated variability, referring to yields of variability, increase total sequencing costs and reduce the number of samples we can sequence in a given time period, which can cause variability in our operating results and damage our reputation. In addition, our FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme reports match identified genomic alterations with FDA-approved targeted therapies or relevant clinical trials of targeted therapies. If a patient or clinical physician who orders FoundationOne or FoundationOne Heme is unable to obtain, or be reimbursed for the use of, targeted therapies because they are not indicated in the FDA-approved product label for treatment of a patient’s cancer, the patient is unable to enroll in an identified clinical trial due to the enrollment criteria of the trial, or some other reason, the patient or ordering clinical physician may conclude the FoundationOne or FoundationOne Heme report does not contain actionable information. If physicians do not believe FoundationOne or FoundationOne Heme consistently generates actionable information about their patients’ cancers, they may be less likely to order our products in the future, our reputation could be harmed, and our business and results of operations could suffer. If we lose the support of key thought leaders, it may be difficult to establish products enabled by our molecular information platform as a standard of care for patients with cancer, which may limit our revenue growth and ability to achieve profitability. We have established relationships with leading oncology thought leaders at premier cancer institutions and oncology networks such as the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, the Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center, the ION Network, and The US Oncology Network. If these key thought leaders determine that our molecular information platform, FoundationOne, FoundationOne Heme, or other products that we develop are not clinically effective, that alternative technologies are more effective, or if they elect to use internally developed products, we would encounter significant difficulty validating our testing platform, driving adoption, or establishing our molecular information platform, FoundationOne, and FoundationOne Heme as a standard of care, which would limit our revenue growth and our ability to achieve profitability. If we cannot maintain our current relationships, or enter into new relationships, with biopharmaceutical companies, our product development could be delayed. We deploy our molecular information platform to analyze tissue samples provided by biopharmaceutical partners from their clinical trials. We have entered into agreements with biopharmaceutical companies in the cancer field including, for example, Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc., ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Array BioPharma Inc., AstraZeneca UK Limited, Celgene Corporation, Clovis Oncology, Inc., Eisai Co., Ltd., Johnson & Johnson, Novartis, and Sanofi, among others. In each of the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, our alliance with Novartis accounted for more than 10% of our revenue. The revenue attributable to Novartis may also fluctuate in the future, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the termination of this relationship could result in a temporary or permanent loss of revenue to us. 46 Table of Contents Our success in the future depends in part on our ability to maintain these relationships and to enter into new relationships. This can be difficult due to several factors, including internal and external constraints placed on these organizations, including Novartis, that can limit the number and type of relationships with companies like us that can be considered and consummated; the agreements governing our relationships are generally terminable at will by the our biopharmaceutical customers; our biopharmaceutical customers, including Novartis, may be dissatisfied with our products; and continued usage of our products among particular biopharmaceutical customers, including Novartis, may depend on whether the partner obtains positive data in its clinical trials or other administrative factors that are outside our control. Additionally, some of our biopharmaceutical partners have contracted with us to provide testing for large numbers of samples, which could strain our testing capacity and restrict our ability to perform additional tests for other customers. If we fail to maintain these relationships, or enter into new ones, our business could suffer. From time to time, we expect to engage in discussions with biopharmaceutical companies regarding commercial opportunities. There is no assurance that any of these discussions will result in a commercial agreement, or if an agreement is reached, that the resulting engagement will be successful or that clinical studies conducted as part of the engagement will produce successful outcomes. Speculation in the industry about our existing or potential engagements with biopharmaceutical companies can be a catalyst for adverse speculation about us, our products, and our technology, which can result in harm to our reputation and our business. We may be unable to manage our future growth effectively, which could make it difficult to execute our business strategy. We anticipate growth in our business operations. This future growth could create strain on our organizational, administrative, and operational infrastructure, including laboratory operations, quality control, customer service, and sales force management. We may not be able to maintain the quality or expected turnaround times of our products or satisfy customer demand as it grows. Our ability to manage our growth properly will require us to continue to improve our operational, financial, and managerial controls, as well as our reporting systems and procedures. We plan to implement new enterprise software systems in a number of areas affecting a broad range of business processes and functional areas. The time and resources required to implement these new systems is uncertain, and failure to complete this in a timely and efficient manner could adversely affect our operations. We have limited experience in marketing and selling our products, and if we are unable to expand our direct sales and marketing force to adequately address our customers’ needs, our business may be adversely affected. We have limited experience in marketing and selling FoundationOne, which had its formal commercial launch in June 2012, and FoundationOne Heme, which launched in December 2013. We may not be able to market, sell, or distribute FoundationOne, FoundationOne Heme, or other products we may develop effectively enough to support our planned growth. We sell our products in the United States through our own sales force and outside the United States with the assistance of distribution partners. Our future sales in the United States will depend in large part on our ability to develop, and substantially expand, our sales force and to increase the scope of our marketing efforts. Our target market of physicians is a large and diverse market. As a result, we believe it is necessary to develop a sales force that includes sales representatives with specific technical backgrounds. We will also need to attract and develop marketing personnel with industry expertise. Competition for such employees is intense. We may not be able to attract and retain personnel or be able to build an efficient and effective sales and marketing force, which could negatively impact sales and market acceptance of our products and limit our revenue growth and potential profitability. Our expected future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain, and integrate additional employees. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our products and to compete effectively will depend in part on our ability to manage this potential future growth effectively, without compromising quality. 47 Table of Contents Outside the United States, we enlist distribution partners and we may potentially enlist local laboratories to assist with sales, distribution, and customer support. Locating, qualifying, and engaging distribution partners and local laboratories with local industry experience and knowledge will be necessary to effectively market and sell our products outside the United States. We may not be successful in finding, attracting, and retaining distribution partners or laboratories, or we may not be able to enter into such arrangements on favorable terms. Sales practices utilized by our distribution parties that are locally acceptable may not comply with sales practices standards required under United States laws that apply to us, which could create additional compliance risk. If our sales and marketing efforts are not successful outside the United States, we may not achieve significant market acceptance for our products outside the United States, which would materially and adversely impact our business operations. The loss of any member of our senior management team or our inability to attract and retain highly skilled scientists, clinicians, and salespeople could adversely affect our business. Our success depends on the skills, experience and performance of key members of our senior management team, including Michael J. Pellini, M.D., our President and Chief Executive Officer. The individual and collective efforts of these employees will be important as we continue to develop our molecular information platform and additional products, and as we expand our commercial activities. The loss or incapacity of existing members of our executive management team could adversely affect our operations if we experience difficulties in hiring qualified successors. Our executive officers have employment agreements; however, the existence of an employment agreement does not guarantee the retention of the executive officer for any period of time. We do not maintain “key person” insurance on any of our employees. Our research and development programs and laboratory operations depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled scientists and technicians. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified scientists and technicians in the future due to the competition for qualified personnel among life science businesses, particularly in Cambridge, Massachusetts. We also face competition from universities and public and private research institutions in recruiting and retaining highly qualified scientific personnel. We may have difficulties locating, recruiting, or retaining qualified sales people. Recruitment and retention difficulties can limit our ability to support our research and development and sales programs. All of our employees are at will, which means that either we or the employee may terminate their employment at any time. If we were sued for product liability or professional liability, we could face substantial liabilities that exceed our resources. The marketing, sale, and use of our products could lead to the filing of product liability claims were someone to allege that our products identified inaccurate or incomplete information regarding the genomic alterations of the tumor or malignancy analyzed, reported inaccurate or incomplete information concerning the available therapies for a certain type of cancer, or otherwise failed to perform as designed. We may also be subject to liability for errors in, a misunderstanding of, or inappropriate reliance upon the information we provide in the ordinary course of our business activities. A product liability or professional liability claim could result in substantial damages and be costly and time-consuming for us to defend. We maintain product and professional liability insurance, but this insurance may not fully protect us from the financial impact of defending against product liability or professional liability claims. Any product liability or professional liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our insurance rates or prevent us from securing insurance coverage in the future. Additionally, any product liability lawsuit could damage our reputation or cause current clinical partners to terminate existing agreements and potential clinical partners to seek other partners, any of which could impact our results of operations. 48 Table of Contents We may acquire other businesses, form joint ventures, or make investments in other companies or technologies that could negatively affect our operating results, dilute our stockholders’ ownership, increase our debt, or cause us to incur significant expense. Our business strategy may, from time to time, include pursuing acquisitions of businesses and assets. We also may pursue strategic alliances and joint ventures that leverage our proprietary molecular information platform and industry experience to expand our offerings or distribution. We have no experience with acquiring other companies and limited experience with forming strategic partnerships. Negotiating these transactions can be time consuming, difficult and expensive, and our ability to close these transactions may be subject to third-party approvals, such as governmental authorities, which are beyond our control. Consequently, we may not be able to complete such transactions on favorable terms and we can make no assurance that these transactions, once undertaken and announced, will close. An acquisition or investment may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may not be able to integrate the businesses, products, personnel, or operations of the acquired companies, particularly if key personnel of the acquired business choose not to work for us, we could assume unknown or contingent liabilities and we may have difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business. Acquisitions also could result in the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or future write-offs of intangible assets or goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Integration of an acquired company also may disrupt ongoing operations and require management resources that we would otherwise focus on developing our existing business. As a result, we cannot be assured that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, technology license, strategic alliance, or joint venture would be realized or that we would not be exposed to unknown liabilities. These challenges related to acquisitions or investments could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. To finance any acquisitions or joint ventures, we may choose to issue shares of our common stock as consideration, which would dilute the ownership of our stockholders. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. If the price of our common stock is low or volatile, we may not be able to acquire other companies or fund a joint venture project using our stock as consideration. International expansion of our business exposes us to business, regulatory, political, operational, financial, and economic risks associated with doing business outside of the United States. We currently have limited international operations, but our business strategy incorporates potentially significant international expansion. We plan to maintain sales representatives and distributor relationships to conduct physician and patient association outreach activities, to extend laboratory capabilities, and to expand payor relationships outside of the United States. Doing business internationally involves a number of risks, including: • multiple, conflicting, and changing laws and regulations such as privacy regulations, tax laws, export and import restrictions, employment laws, regulatory requirements, and other governmental approvals, permits, and licenses; • failure by us or our distributors to obtain regulatory approvals for the use of our products in various countries; • additional, potentially relevant third-party patent rights; • complexities and difficulties in obtaining protection and enforcing our intellectual property; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • complexities associated with managing multiple payor reimbursement regimes, government payors, or patient self-pay systems; • logistics and regulations associated with shipping tissue samples, including infrastructure conditions and transportation delays; 49 Table of Contents • limits in our ability to penetrate international markets if we are not able to conduct our molecular tests locally; • financial risks, such as longer payment cycles, difficulty collecting accounts receivable, the impact of local and regional financial crises on demand and payment for our products, and exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • natural disasters, political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, and political unrest, outbreak of disease, boycotts, curtailment of trade, and other business restrictions; and • regulatory and compliance risks that relate to maintaining accurate information and control over sales and distributors’ activities that may fall within the purview of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, its books and records provisions, or its anti-bribery provisions. Any of these factors could significantly harm our future international expansion and operations and, consequently, our revenue and results of operations. We could be adversely affected by violations of the FCPA and other worldwide anti-bribery laws. International customers have ordered, or may, in the future, order FoundationOne or FoundationOne Heme, and we are, therefore, subject to the FCPA, which prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making payments in violation of law to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing any other improper advantage. Our reliance on independent distributors to sell FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme internationally demands a high degree of vigilance in maintaining our policy against participation in corrupt activity, because these distributors could be deemed to be our agents, and we could be held responsible for their actions. Other U.S. companies in the medical device and pharmaceutical field have faced criminal penalties under the FCPA for allowing their agents to deviate from appropriate practices in doing business with these individuals. We are also subject to similar anti-bribery laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the United Kingdom’s Bribery Act of 2010, which went into effect in the third quarter of 2011, which also prohibits commercial bribery and makes it a crime for companies to fail to prevent bribery. These laws are complex and far-reaching in nature, and, as a result, we cannot assure you that we would not be required in the future to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws, any changes in these laws, or the interpretation thereof. Any violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction, involve significant costs and expenses, including legal fees, and could result in a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, or results of operations. We could also suffer severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement, and other remedial measures. Our employees, principal investigators, consultants, and commercial partners may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including non-compliance with regulatory standards and requirements, and insider trading. We are exposed to the risk of fraud or other misconduct by our employees, principal investigators, consultants, and commercial partners. Misconduct by these parties could include intentional failures to comply with the regulations of the FDA and non-U.S. regulators, comply with healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations in the United States and abroad, report financial information or data accurately, or disclose unauthorized activities to us. In particular, sales, marketing, and business arrangements in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive laws and regulations intended to prevent fraud, misconduct, kickbacks, self-dealing, and other abusive practices. These laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, sales commission, customer incentive programs, and other business arrangements. Such misconduct could also involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical studies, which could result in regulatory sanctions and cause serious harm to our reputation. We currently have a code of conduct applicable to all of our employees, but it is not always possible to identify and deter employee misconduct, and our code of conduct and the other precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not 50 Table of Contents be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses, or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to comply with these laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could result in the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions, which could have a significant impact on our business. Whether or not we are successful in defending against such actions or investigations, we could incur substantial costs, including legal fees, and divert the attention of management in defending ourselves against any of these claims or investigations. We depend on our information technology systems, and any failure of these systems could harm our business. We depend on information technology and telecommunications systems for significant elements of our operations, including our laboratory information management system, our computational biology system, our knowledge management system, our customer reporting, and our Interactive Cancer Explorer portal. We have installed, and expect to expand, a number of enterprise software systems that affect a broad range of business processes and functional areas, including, for example, systems handling human resources, financial controls and reporting, contract management, regulatory compliance, and other infrastructure operations. In addition to the aforementioned business systems, we intend to extend the capabilities of both our preventative and detective security controls by augmenting the monitoring and alerting functions, the network design, and the automatic countermeasure operations of our technical systems. These information technology and telecommunications systems support a variety of functions, including laboratory operations, test validation, sample tracking, quality control, customer service support, billing and reimbursement, research and development activities, scientific and medical curation, and general administrative activities. In addition, our third-party billing and collections provider depends upon technology and telecommunications systems provided by outside vendors. Information technology and telecommunications systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, malicious human acts, and natural disasters. Moreover, despite network security and back-up measures, some of our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, and similar disruptive problems. Despite the precautionary measures we have taken to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our information technology and telecommunications systems, failures or significant downtime of our information technology or telecommunications systems, or those used by our third-party service providers, could prevent us from conducting our comprehensive genomic analyses, preparing and providing reports to pathologists and oncologists, billing payors, processing reimbursement appeals, handling patient or physician inquiries, conducting research and development activities, and managing the administrative aspects of our business. Any disruption or loss of information technology or telecommunications systems on which critical aspects of our operations depend could have an adverse effect on our business. Security breaches, loss of data, and other disruptions could compromise sensitive information related to our business or prevent us from accessing critical information and expose us to liability, which could adversely affect our business and our reputation. In the ordinary course of our business, we and our third-party billing and collections provider collect and store sensitive data, including legally protected health information, personally identifiable information, intellectual property, and proprietary business information owned or controlled by ourselves or our customers, payors, and biopharmaceutical partners. We manage and maintain our applications and data utilizing a combination of on-site systems, managed data center systems, and cloud-based data center systems. We also communicate, and soon will facilitate the exchange of, sensitive patient data to customers through our Interactive Cancer Explorer. These applications and data encompass a wide variety of business-critical information including research and development information, commercial information, and business and financial information. We face four primary risks relative to protecting this critical information, including: loss of access risk; inappropriate disclosure risk; inappropriate modification risk; and the risk of our being unable to adequately monitor our controls over the first three risks. The secure processing, storage, maintenance, and transmission of this critical information is vital to our operations and business strategy, and we devote significant resources to protecting such information. Although 51 Table of Contents we take measures to protect sensitive information from unauthorized access or disclosure, our information technology and infrastructure, and that of our third-party billing and collections provider, may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or viruses or breached due to employee error, malfeasance, or other disruptions. Any such breach or interruption could compromise our networks, and the information stored there could be accessed by unauthorized parties, publicly disclosed, lost, or stolen. Any such access, disclosure, or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, such as the HIPAA, and regulatory penalties. Although we have implemented security measures and a formal, dedicated enterprise security program to prevent unauthorized access to patient data, the Interactive Cancer Explorer, which is currently accessible through our online portal and will, in the future, be accessible through dedicated mobile applications, gives broad access to physicians, at which point we lose ability to control access, and there is no guarantee we can continue to protect our online portal, or will be able to protect our mobile applications, from breach. Unauthorized access, loss, or dissemination could also disrupt our operations, including our ability to conduct our analyses, provide test results, bill payors or patients, process claims and appeals, provide customer assistance services, conduct research and development activities, collect, process, and prepare company financial information, provide information about our products and other patient and physician education and outreach efforts through our website, manage the administrative aspects of our business, and damage our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business. The U.S. Office of Civil Rights may impose penalties on a covered entity for a failure to comply with a requirement of HIPAA. Penalties will vary significantly depending on factors such as the date of the violation, whether the covered entity knew or should have known of the failure to comply, or whether the covered entity’s failure to comply was due to willful neglect. These penalties include civil monetary penalties of $100 to $50,000 per violation, up to an annual cap of $1,500,000. A person who knowingly obtains or discloses individually identifiable health information in violation of HIPAA may face a criminal penalty of up to $50,000 and up to one year imprisonment. The criminal penalties increase to $100,000 and up to five years imprisonment if the wrongful conduct involves false pretenses, and to $250,000 and up to 10 years imprisonment if the wrongful conduct involves the intent to sell, transfer, or use identifiable health information for commercial advantage, personal gain, or malicious harm. The U.S. Department of Justice is responsible for criminal prosecutions under HIPAA. Furthermore, in the event of a breach as defined by HIPAA, the covered entity has specific reporting requirements under the HIPAA regulations. In the event of a significant breach, the reporting requirements could include notification to the general public. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer, health-related, and data protection laws in the United States, Europe, and elsewhere are often uncertain, contradictory, and in flux. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our practices. If so, this could result in government-imposed fines or orders requiring that we change our practices, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, these privacy regulations may differ from country to country, and may vary based on whether testing is performed in the United States or in the local country. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices and compliance procedures in a manner adverse to our business. Economic or business instability may have a negative impact on our business. Continuing concerns over United States health care reform legislation, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and government stimulus programs in the United States and other countries have contributed to volatility for the global economy. If the economic climate does not improve, our business, including our access to patient samples and the addressable market for molecular information products that we may successfully develop, as well as the financial condition of our suppliers and our commercial third-party payors, could be adversely affected, resulting in a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, the instability has resulted in diminished liquidity and credit availability in the market, which could 52 Table of Contents impair our ability to access capital if required or adversely affect our operations. In the event of further economic slowdown, investment in biopharmaceutical research and development may also experience a corresponding slowdown. If we use hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury, we could be liable for damages. Our activities currently require the use of hazardous chemicals. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury to employees or third parties from the use, storage, handling, or disposal of these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources or any applicable insurance coverage we may have. Additionally, we are subject on an ongoing basis to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling, and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations may become significant, and could negatively affect our operating results. Our term loan contains restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. In November 2010, we entered into a loan and security agreement with Lighthouse Capital Partners, or Lighthouse, secured by a lien on equipment, fixtures, or personal property financed pursuant to any agreements with Lighthouse. This loan contains various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things: • sell, transfer, lease, or dispose of certain assets; • encumber or permit liens on certain assets; • make certain restricted payments, including paying dividends on, or repurchasing or making distributions with respect to, our common stock; and • enter into certain transactions with affiliates. A breach of any of the covenants under the loan and security agreement could result in a default under the loan. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the loan, the lender could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we are unable to repay those amounts, the lender could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. Reimbursement and Regulatory Risks Relating to Our Business If commercial third-party payors or government payors fail to provide coverage or adequate reimbursement, or if there is a decrease in the amount of reimbursement for FoundationOne, FoundationOne Heme, or future products we develop, if any, our revenue and prospects for profitability would be harmed. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of FoundationOne, FoundationOne Heme, or any future molecular information products we develop will depend, in large part, upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. These third-party payors include government healthcare programs such as Medicare, managed care providers, ACOs, private health insurers, and other organizations. In particular, we believe that obtaining a positive national coverage decision and favorable reimbursement rate from CMS for FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme will be a necessary element in achieving material commercial success. Physicians and patients may not order FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme unless commercial third-party payors and government payors pay for all, or a substantial portion, of the list price, and certain commercial third-party payors may not agree to reimburse FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme if CMS does not issue a positive coverage decision. 53 Table of Contents There is currently no national coverage decision that determines whether and how our test is covered by Medicare. In the absence of a national coverage determination, local Medicare Administrative Contractors, or MACs, that administer the Medicare program in various regions have some discretion in determining coverage and, therefore, payment for tests. Our local MAC at the time FoundationOne was launched in 20l2 initially requested that we not submit claims for services provided to Medicare patients while the MAC assessed the appropriate coding, coverage, and payment for FoundationOne as a whole. To accommodate this request, we deferred the submission of claims until November 2013, when we commenced the process of submitting claims to National Government Services, our current MAC, for FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme tests for Medicare patients with dates of service on or after November 1, 2013. We are submitting claims to National Government Services using a miscellaneous CPT code. When submitting claims for services or procedures that do not have specific CPT codes, providers may submit those claims using a code, referred to as the miscellaneous code, to provide the means of reporting and tracking services and procedures until a more specific code is established. We are not submitting claims using stacked codes in the manner currently used in submitting claims to non-governmental, commercial third-party payors. The use of a miscellaneous code may decrease the likelihood of reimbursement given that a miscellaneous code is a single code that does not represent an identified service or procedure. We have not received any payments for FoundationOne or FoundationOne Heme provided to patients covered by Medicare to date. If CMS does not issue a positive national coverage determination, or National Government Services does not issue a local coverage determination, with respect to FoundationOne and/or FoundationOne Heme, or if National Government Services denies reimbursement of FoundationOne and/or FoundationOne Heme, withdraws its coverage policies after reimbursement is obtained, reviews and adjusts the rate of reimbursement, or stops paying for FoundationOne and/or FoundationOne Heme altogether, our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected. We have not received a response to, or any payments from, Medicare for the claims submitted. The response of National Government Services to the submission of our claims is uncertain, and the claims may be denied or paid, in whole or in part. If a claim is denied or paid in part, we may decide to appeal the denied claim or any denied portion of the claim. Alternatively, National Government Services may defer processing a claim pending a coverage or payment determination. Even if we do receive payments from National Government Services, the reimbursement rate may be lower than we expect, and if such rate is then adopted by commercial third-party payors, it would have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. In addition, National Government Services may issue a negative coverage determination for FoundationOne and/or FoundationOne Heme that would apply to future claims. Although we would have the opportunity to submit additional materials to National Government Services in support of a positive coverage determination for FoundationOne and/or FoundationOne Heme, there is no guarantee that National Government Services would provide us with a positive coverage decision or reverse a negative coverage decision that it already issued. Commercial third-party payors and government payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both coverage on which diagnostic products they will pay for and the amounts that they will pay for new molecular diagnostic products. Because of the cost-containment trends, commercial third-party payors and government payors that currently provide reimbursement for, or in the future cover, FoundationOne and/or FoundationOne Heme may reduce, suspend, revoke, or discontinue payments or coverage at any time. As a result, there is significant uncertainty surrounding whether the use of products that incorporate new technology, such as FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme, will be eligible for coverage by commercial third-party payors and government payors or, if eligible for coverage, what the reimbursement rates will be for those products. The fact that a diagnostic product has been approved for reimbursement in the past, for any particular indication or in any particular jurisdiction, does not guarantee that such a diagnostic product will remain approved for reimbursement or that similar or additional diagnostic products will be approved in the 54 Table of Contents future. Reimbursement of NGS-based cancer products by commercial third-party payors and government payors may depend on a number of factors, including a payor’s determination that products enabled by our molecular information platform are: • not experimental or investigational; • medically necessary; • appropriate for the specific patient; • cost effective; • supported by peer-reviewed publications; • included in clinical practice guidelines; and • supported by clinical utility studies demonstrating improved outcomes. As a result, our efforts to receive reimbursement on behalf of patients will take a substantial amount of time, and commercial third-party payors and government payors may never cover or provide adequate payment for FoundationOne, FoundationOne Heme, or future molecular information products we develop. Our strategy to achieve broad reimbursement coverage is focused on demonstrating the clinical utility and economic benefits of FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme, including engagement with key members of the oncology community and increasing physician demand, but there is no assurance that we will succeed in any of these areas or that, even if we do succeed, we will receive favorable reimbursement decisions. If adequate third-party reimbursement is unavailable, we may not be able to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on investment in product development. Furthermore, if a commercial third-party payor or government payor denies coverage, it may be difficult for us to collect from the patient, and we may not be successful. In addition, we are currently considered a “non-contracted provider” by commercial third-party payors because we have not entered into specific contracts to provide FoundationOne and/or FoundationOne Heme to their covered patients, and as a result we take on primary responsibility for obtaining reimbursement on behalf of patients. If we were to become a contracted provider in the future, the amount of overall reimbursement we receive may decrease if we were to be reimbursed less money per test performed at a contracted rate than at a non-contracted rate, which could have a negative impact on our revenue. Further, we may be unable to collect payments from patients beyond that which is paid by their coverage, and will experience lost revenue as a result. The United States and foreign governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare. For example, in some foreign markets, the government controls the pricing of many healthcare products. We expect that there will continue to be federal and state proposals to implement governmental controls or impose healthcare requirements. In addition, the Medicare program and increasing emphasis on managed or accountable care in the United States will continue to put pressure on product pricing. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we would receive for any products in the future, which would limit our revenue and profitability. Changes in the way that the FDA regulates products developed, manufactured, validated, and performed by laboratories like ours could result in delay or additional expense in offering our products and products that we may develop in the future. While the FDA currently exercises its enforcement discretion for LDTs by not enforcing its regulations, the FDA has stated that it has a mandate to regulate in this field and that it may address LDT regulation using a risk-based, phased-in approach similar to the existing in vitro diagnostic framework. In particular, as recently as June 2013, the Commissioner of the FDA has stated that “the FDA is working to make sure that the accuracy and 55 Table of Contents clinical validity of high-risk tests are established before they come to market.” Thus, the FDA may seek to more actively regulate, including requiring clearance or approval of, our molecular information products in the future. Moreover, the FDA could disagree with our assessment that FoundationOne is an LDT, including FoundationOne Heme that we developed in collaboration with Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, and could require us to seek clearance or approval to offer FoundationOne for clinical use. If the FDA requires us to seek clearance or approval to offer FoundationOne, FoundationOne Heme, or any of our future products for clinical use, we may not be able to obtain such approvals on a timely basis, or at all. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: warning letters; fines; injunctions; civil or criminal penalties; recall or seizure of current or future products; operating restrictions; partial suspension or total shutdown of production; denial of applications; or challenges to clearances or approvals. In July 2010, the FDA’s Office of InVitro Diagnostic Device Evaluation and Safety held a public meeting to discuss oversight of LDTs. The FDA highlighted the lack of standardized clinical validation at the test level under current CLIA regulatory guidelines and noted that CLIA does not require post-market surveillance or monitoring of LDTs. The comment period for providing the FDA with written comments expired on August 15, 2010, but the FDA has not yet published additional guidance on the oversight of LDTs. We cannot provide any assurance that FDA regulation, including premarket review, will not be required for our molecular information products. If premarket review is required, our business could be negatively impacted if we are required to stop selling molecular information products pending their clearance or approval or the launch of any new products that we develop could be delayed by new requirements. In addition, in November 2013, the FDA finalized guidance regarding the sale and use of products labeled for research or investigational use only. Among other things, the guidance advises that the FDA continues to be concerned about distribution of research-investigational-use only products intended for clinical diagnostic use and that the manufacturer’s objective intent for the product’s intended use will be determined by examining the totality of circumstances, including advertising, instructions for clinical interpretation, presentations that describe clinical use, and specialized technical support such as assistance performance clinical validation, surrounding the distribution of the product in question. The FDA has advised that if evidence demonstrates that a product is inappropriately labeled for research or investigational use only, the device would be misbranded and adulterated within the meaning of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Some of the reagents and other products we use in FoundationOne are currently labeled as research-use only products. If the FDA were to undertake enforcement actions, some of our suppliers may cease selling research-use only products to us, and any failure to obtain an acceptable substitute could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Healthcare policy changes, including recently enacted legislation reforming the U.S. health care system, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In March 2010, legislation collectively referred to as the Affordable Care Act, or ACA, was enacted in the United States. The ACA made a number of substantial changes in the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers. Among other things, the ACA: • requires each medical device manufacturer to pay a sales tax equal to 2.3% of the price for which such manufacturer sells its medical devices, beginning in 2013. This tax could apply to FoundationOne, FoundationOne Heme and some or all of our products which are in development; and • mandates a reduction in payments for clinical laboratory services paid under the Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule of 1.75% for the years 2011 through 2015. In addition, a productivity adjustment is made to the fee schedule payment amount. On April 1, 2013, cuts to the federal budget were implemented, requiring a 2% cut in Medicare payments for all services, including clinical laboratory testing. In December 2013, Congress extended this 2% cut for an additional two years until 2023. 56 Table of Contents In December 2013, CMS release the 2014 Physician Fee Schedule, or PFS, Final Rule, granting the broad authority to adjust payment for clinical laboratory tests based on technological changes. The agency finalized its proposed process to adjust payments to the Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule, or CLFS, including the prioritization of codes for review. CMS is finalizing the proposal to define technological changes as changes to the tools, machines, supplies, labor, instruments, skills, technologies, and devices by which laboratory tests are produced and used. Each year, CMS will conduct a data analysis of codes on the CLFS to determine which codes should be proposed during the rulemaking cycle for a payment adjustment due to technological changes. CMS will solicit comment on the technology used to perform any tests it reviewed for possible payment changes, and any relevant cost information. This process will begin with the 2015 PFS proposed rule. Many CPT procedure codes that we use to bill our products were revised by the American Medical Association, effective January 1, 2013. In the Final Rule for 2013, CMS announced that it decided to keep the new molecular codes on the CLFS, rather than move them to the PFS. CMS then announced that for 2013, it would price the new codes using a “gap filling” process. Under this approach, CMS referred the CPT codes to the MACs to allow them to determine an appropriate price. CMS combined the pricing provided by the MACs to establish and publish a National Limit Amount, or NLA, by CPT code for 2014. Our average commercial payor reimbursement in 2014 could be adversely affected depending upon if and how payors adopt the 2014 CMS pricing. If CMS reduces reimbursement for the new CPT codes and/or if commercial payors reduce non-contracted payment rates below the new NLA, our revenue could be adversely affected. We cannot predict whether future health care initiatives will be implemented at the federal or state level, or how any future legislation or regulation may affect us. The taxes imposed by the new federal legislation and the expansion of government’s role in the U.S. health care industry, as well as changes to the reimbursement amounts paid by payors for FoundationOne, FoundationOne Heme, and future products may reduce our profits, and have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Moreover, Congress has proposed, on several occasions, to impose a significant reduction in payment rates and/or 20% coinsurance on patients for clinical laboratory tests reimbursed under the CLFS. These adjustments would require us to bill patients for these amounts, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. If we fail to comply with the complex federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations that apply to our business, we could suffer severe consequences that could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We are subject to the CLIA, a federal law that regulates clinical laboratories that perform testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of disease. CLIA regulations mandate specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance, and inspections. We have a current certificate of accreditation under CLIA to conduct our genomic analyses through our accreditation by CAP. To renew this certificate, we are subject to survey and inspection every two years. Moreover, CLIA inspectors may make random inspections of our clinical reference laboratory. We are also required to maintain a license to conduct testing in Massachusetts. Massachusetts laws establish standards for day-to-day operation of our clinical reference laboratory, including the training and skills required of personnel and quality control. We also maintain a license to conduct testing in California, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Florida, and Rhode Island. In addition, New York State licensure requires that our clinical reference laboratory run only clinical tests that have been approved by the FDA or by the New York Department of Health, Clinical Laboratory Evaluation Program. Our application for such a license from New York State is currently pending, and we operate based on a waiver by New York State of the obligations to have the license. If we are unable to obtain the necessary approvals, or if New York State does not extend our waiver, our business could suffer. Moreover, several other states require that we hold licenses to test specimens from patients in those states. 57 Table of Contents Other states may adopt similar requirements in the future. Finally, we may be subject to regulation in foreign jurisdictions as we seek to expand international distribution of our products, which may require review of our products in order to offer our services, or may have other limitations such as prohibitions on the export of tissue necessary for us to perform our tests that may limit our ability to distribute outside of the United States. Any sanction imposed under CLIA, its implementing regulations, or state or foreign laws or regulations governing licensure, or our failure to renew a CLIA certificate, a state or foreign license, or accreditation, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Most CLIA deficiencies are not classified as “condition-level” deficiencies, and there are no adverse effects upon the laboratory operations as long as the deficiencies are corrected. Remediation of these deficiencies are routine matters, with corrections occurring within several hours or weeks. More serious CLIA deficiencies could rise to the level of “condition-level” deficiencies, and CMS has the authority to impose a wide range of sanctions, including revocation of the CLIA certification along with a bar on the ownership or operation of a CLIA, certified laboratory by any owners or operators of the deficient laboratory. There is an administrative hearing procedure that can be pursued by the laboratory in the event of imposition of such sanctions, during which the sanctions are stayed, but the process can take a number of years to complete. If we were to lose our CLIA certification or CAP accreditation, we would not be able to operate our clinical reference laboratory and conduct our molecular tests, which would result in material harm to our business and results of operations. Our operations are subject to other extensive federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations, all of which are subject to change. These laws and regulations currently include, among others: • HIPAA, which established comprehensive federal standards with respect to the privacy and security of protected health information and requirements for the use of certain standardized electronic transactions, particularly with respect to our online portal, the Interactive Cancer Explorer; • amendments to HIPAA under the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, which strengthen and expand HIPAA privacy and security compliance requirements, increase penalties for violators, extend enforcement authority to state attorneys general, and impose requirements for breach notification; • the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, arranging for, or recommending of an item or service that is reimbursable, in whole or in part, by a federal health care program; • the federal Stark physician self-referral law, which prohibits a physician from making a referral for certain designated health services covered by the Medicare program, including laboratory and pathology services, if the physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship with the entity providing the designated health services, unless the financial relationship falls within an applicable exception to the prohibition; • the federal False Claims Act, which imposes liability on any person or entity that, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment to the federal government; • the federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which prohibits, among other things, the offering or transfer of remuneration to a Medicare or state health care program beneficiary if the person knows or should know it is likely to influence the beneficiary’s selection of a particular provider, practitioner, or supplier of services reimbursable by Medicare or a state health care program, unless an exception applies; 58 Table of Contents • other federal and state fraud and abuse laws, such as anti-kickback laws, prohibitions on self-referral, fee-splitting restrictions, prohibitions on the provision of products at no or discounted cost to induce physician or patient adoption, and false claims acts, which may extend to services reimbursable by any third-party payor, including private insurers; • the prohibition on reassignment of Medicare claims, which, subject to certain exceptions, precludes the reassignment of Medicare claims to any other party; • the rules regarding billing for diagnostic tests reimbursable by the Medicare program, which prohibit a physician or other supplier from marking up the price of the technical component or professional component of a diagnostic test ordered by the physician or other supplier and supervised or performed by a physician who does not “share a practice” with the billing physician or supplier; • state laws that prohibit other specified practices, such as billing physicians for testing that they order; waiving coinsurance, copayments, deductibles, and other amounts owed by patients; billing a state Medicaid program at a price that is higher than what is charged to one or more other payors; and • similar foreign laws and regulations that apply to us in the countries in which we operate. Our failure to comply could lead to civil or criminal penalties, exclusion from participation in government health care programs, or prohibitions or restrictions on our laboratory’s ability to conduct commercial activities. We believe that we are in material compliance with all statutory and regulatory requirements, but there is a risk that one or more government agencies could take a contrary position. These laws and regulations are complex and are subject to interpretation by the courts and by government agencies. If one or more such agencies alleges that we may be in violation of any of these requirements, regardless of the outcome, it could damage our reputation and adversely affect important business relationships with third parties, including managed care organizations and other commercial third-party payors. The FDA and other regulatory agencies strictly regulate the promotional claims that may be made about prescription products. If we are found to have improperly promoted off-label uses, we may become subject to significant fines and other liability. FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme deliver to physicians a report that describes a tumor’s or hematologic cancer’s genomic alterations and matches them with FDA-approved therapies or open clinical trials for therapies targeting cancers driven by those alterations. In some cases, the therapies identified in our report are not approved for the patient’s cancer or disease state. The FDA and other regulatory agencies strictly regulate the promotional claims that may be made about prescription drug and device products. In particular, a product may not be promoted for uses or indications beyond those contained in such product’s approved labeling. The U.S. government has levied large civil and criminal fines against companies for alleged improper promotion and has enjoined several companies from engaging in off-label promotion. The FDA has also requested that companies enter into consent decrees or permanent injunctions under which specified promotional conduct is changed or curtailed. If the FDA determines that we have engaged in off-label promotion in our FoundationOne or FoundationOne Heme reports by providing information regarding approved therapies, we may be subject to civil or criminal fines. In addition, incentives exist under applicable laws that encourage competitors, employees, and physicians to report violations of rules governing promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. These incentives could lead to so-called whistleblower lawsuits as part of which such persons seek to collect a portion of monies allegedly overbilled to government agencies due to, for example, promotion of pharmaceutical products beyond labeled claims. These incentives could also lead to suits that we have mischaracterized a competitor’s product in the marketplace and, as a result, we could be sued for alleged damages to our competitors. Such lawsuits, whether with or without merit, are typically time-consuming and costly to defend. Such suits may also result in related shareholder lawsuits, which are also costly to defend. 59 Table of Contents We may be subject to fines, penalties, licensure requirements, or legal liability, if it is determined that through our FoundationOne or FoundationOne Heme reports we are practicing medicine without a license. Our FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme reports delivered to physicians provide information regarding FDA-approved therapies and clinical trials that oncologists may use in making treatment decisions for their patients. We make members of our organization available to discuss the information provided in the report. State laws prohibit the practice of medicine without a license. Our customer service representatives provide support to our customers, including assistance in interpreting the FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme report results. A governmental authority or individual actor could allege that the identification of available therapies and clinical trials in our reports and the related customer service we provide constitute the practice of medicine. A state may seek to have us discontinue the inclusion of certain aspects of our reports or the related services we provide or subject us to fine, penalties, or licensure requirements. Any determination that we are practicing medicine without a license may result in significant liability to us. If the validity of an informed consent from a patient enrolled in a clinical trial with one of our biopharmaceutical partners was challenged, we could be forced to stop using some of our resources, which would hinder our molecular information product development efforts. We have implemented measures to ensure that all clinical data and genetic and other biological samples that we receive from our biopharmaceutical partners have been collected from subjects who have provided appropriate informed consent for purposes which extend to our product development activities. We seek to ensure these data and samples are provided to us on a subject de-identified manner. We also have measures in place to ensure that the subjects from whom the data and samples are collected do not retain or have conferred on them any proprietary or commercial rights to the data or any discoveries derived from them. Our biopharmaceutical partners conduct clinical trials in a number of different countries, and, to a large extent, we rely upon them to comply with the subject’s informed consent and with local law and international regulation. The collection of data and samples in many different countries results in complex legal questions regarding the adequacy of informed consent and the status of genetic material under a large number of different legal systems. The subject’s informed consent obtained in any particular country could be challenged in the future, and those informed consents could prove invalid, unlawful, or otherwise inadequate for our purposes. Any findings against us, or our biopharmaceutical partners, could deny us access to or force us to stop using some of our clinical samples, which would hinder our molecular information product development efforts. We could become involved in legal challenges, which could consume our management and financial resources. Ethical, legal, and social concerns related to the use of genomic information could reduce demand for our molecular information products. Genomic testing, like that conducted using our molecular information platform, FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme, has raised ethical, legal, and social issues regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information. Governmental authorities could, for social or other purposes, limit or regulate the use of genomic information or genomic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. Similarly, these concerns may lead patients to refuse to use genomic tests even if permissible. Ethical and social concerns may also influence U.S. and foreign patent offices and courts with regard to patent protection for technology relevant to our business. These and other ethical, legal, and social concerns may limit market acceptance of our products or reduce the potential markets for products enabled by our molecular information platform, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 60 Table of Contents Intellectual Property Risks Related to Our Business Litigation or other proceedings or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend significant time and money and could prevent us from selling our products or impact our stock price. Third parties have asserted and may in the future assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. As we continue to commercialize each of FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme in its current or an updated form, launch new products, and enter new markets, we expect that competitors will claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part of business strategies designed to impede our successful commercialization and entry into new markets. We occasionally receive letters from third parties inviting us to take licenses under, or alleging that we infringe, their patents. Third parties may have obtained, and may in the future obtain, patents under which such third parties may claim that the use of our technologies constitutes patent infringement. We could incur substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these claims. Any adverse ruling or perception of an adverse ruling in defending ourselves against these claims could have a material adverse impact on our cash position and stock price. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which could block our ability to develop, commercialize, and sell products, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. In the event of a successful claim of infringement or misappropriation against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties, or be prohibited from selling certain products, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our cash position and business and financial condition. In addition, we may be unable to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. We could therefore incur substantial costs related to royalty payments for licenses obtained from third parties, which could negatively affect our gross margins. Moreover, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from commercializing products, and the prohibition of sale of any of our products would materially affect our ability to grow and maintain profitability and have a material adverse impact on our business. Developments in patent law could have a negative impact on our business. From time to time, the United States Supreme Court, or the Supreme Court, other federal courts, the United States Congress, or the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or the USPTO, may change the standards of patentability and any such changes could have a negative impact on our business. Two cases involving diagnostic method claims and “gene patents” have recently been decided by the Supreme Court. On March 20, 2012, the Supreme Court issued a decision in Mayo Collaborative v. Prometheus Laboratories, or Prometheus, a case involving patent claims directed to optimizing the amount of drug administered to a specific patient. According to that decision, Prometheus’ claims failed to incorporate sufficient inventive content above and beyond mere underlying natural correlations to allow the claimed processes to qualify as patent-eligible processes that apply natural laws. On June 13, 2013, the Supreme Court subsequently decided Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad Genetics, or Myriad, a case brought by multiple plaintiffs challenging the validity of patent claims held by Myriad Genetics, Inc. relating to the breast cancer susceptibility genes BRCA1 and BRCA2, holding that isolated genomic DNA that exists in nature, such as the DNA constituting the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes, is not patentable subject matter, but that cDNA, which is an artificial construct created from RNA transcripts of genes, may be patent eligible. On March 4, 2014, the USPTO issued a memorandum to patent examiners providing guidance for examining claims reciting laws of nature/natural principles, natural phenomena, and/or natural products for 61 Table of Contents patent eligibility in view of the Supreme Court decisions in Prometheus and Myriad. The guidance indicates that claims reciting such natural subject matter, read as a whole, that do not significantly differ from such natural subject matter should be rejected as non-statutory subject matter. We cannot assure you that our efforts to seek patent protection for our technology and products will not be negatively impacted by the guidance issued by the USPTO, the decisions described above, rulings in other cases, or changes in guidance or procedures issued by the USPTO. We cannot fully predict what impact the Supreme Court’s decisions in Prometheus and Myriad may have on the ability of biopharmaceutical companies or other entities to obtain or enforce patents relating to genes or genomic discoveries in the future. Despite the USPTO guidance described above, the Prometheus and Myriad decisions are new and the contours of when claims to laws of nature, natural phenomena or natural products meet the patent eligibility requirements are not clear and may take many years to develop via interpretation in the courts. There are many patents claiming diagnostic methods based on similar or related correlations that issued before Prometheus, and although some of these patents may be invalid under the standard set forth in Prometheus, until successfully challenged, these patents are presumed valid and enforceable, and certain third parties could allege that we infringe, or request that we obtain a license to, these patents. Whether based on patents issued prior to or after Prometheus, we could have to defend ourselves against claims of patent infringement, or choose to license rights, if available, under patents claiming such methods. Moreover, although the Supreme Court has held in Myriad that isolated genomic DNA is not patent-eligible subject matter, certain third parties could allege that activities that we may undertake infringe other classes of gene-related patent claims, and we could have to defend ourselves against these claims by asserting non-infringement and/or invalidity positions, or pay to obtain a license to these claims. In any of the foregoing or in other situations involving third-party intellectual property rights, if we are unsuccessful in defending against claims of patent infringement, we could be forced to pay damages or be subjected to an injunction that would prevent us from utilizing the patented subject matter in question if we are unable to obtain a license on reasonable terms. Such outcomes could materially affect our ability to offer our products and have a material adverse impact on our business. Even if we are able to obtain a license or successfully defend against claims of patent infringement, the cost and distraction associated with the defense or settlement of these claims could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the America Invents Act, which was signed into law in 2011, includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law. These changes include a transition from a “first-to-invent” system to a “first-to-file” system, changes to the way issued patents are challenged, and changes to the way patent applications are disputed during the examination process. These changes may favor larger and more established companies that have greater resources to devote to patent application filing and prosecution. The USPTO has developed new and untested regulations and procedures to govern the full implementation of the America Invents Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the America Invents Act, and, in particular, the first-to-file provisions, became effective on March 16, 2013. Substantive changes to patent law associated with the America Invents Act may affect our ability to obtain patents, and, if obtained, to enforce or defend them. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the America Invents Act will ultimately have on the cost of prosecuting our patent applications, our ability to obtain patents based on our discoveries and our ability to enforce or defend any patents that may issue from our patent applications, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to protect or enforce our intellectual property effectively, which could harm our competitive position. Obtaining and maintaining a strong patent position is important to our business. Our patent applications are in the early stages of prosecution, and none have yet issued as patents. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is complex and uncertain, so we cannot be assured that we will be able to obtain or maintain patent rights, or that the patent rights we may obtain will be valuable, provide an effective barrier to competitors or otherwise provide competitive advantages. Others have filed, and in the future 62 Table of Contents are likely to file, patent applications that are similar or identical to ours or those of our licensors. To determine the priority of inventions, or demonstrate that we did not derive our invention from another, we may have to participate in interference or derivation proceedings in the USPTO or in court that could result in substantial costs in legal fees and could substantially affect the scope of our patent protection. We cannot be assured our patent applications will prevail over those filed by others. Also, our intellectual property rights may be subject to other challenges by third parties. Patents we obtain could be challenged in litigation or in administrative proceedings such as ex parte reexam, inter partes review, or post-grant review in the United States or opposition proceedings in Europe or other jurisdictions. Obtaining and maintaining a patent portfolio entails significant expense and resources. Part of the expense includes periodic maintenance fees, renewal fees, annuity fees, various other governmental fees on patents and/or applications due in several stages over the lifetime of patents and/or applications, as well as the cost associated with complying with numerous procedural provisions during the patent application process. We may or may not choose to pursue or maintain protection for particular inventions. In addition, there are situations in which failure to make certain payments or noncompliance with certain requirements in the patent process can result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. If we choose to forego patent protection or allow a patent application or patent to lapse purposefully or inadvertently, our competitive position could suffer. Legal actions to enforce our patent rights can be expensive and may involve the diversion of significant management time. In addition, these legal actions could be unsuccessful and could also result in the invalidation of our patents or a finding that they are unenforceable. We may or may not choose to pursue litigation or interferences against those that have infringed our patents, due to the associated expense and time commitment of monitoring these activities. If we fail to protect or to enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our results of operations. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position would be harmed. In addition to patent protection, we also rely upon copyright and trade secret protection, as well as non-disclosure agreements and invention assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and third-parties, to protect our confidential and proprietary information. For example, significant elements of FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme, including aspects of sample preparation, computational-biological algorithms, and related processes and software, are based on unpatented trade secrets and know-how that are not publicly disclosed. In addition to contractual measures, we try to protect the confidential nature of our proprietary information using physical and technological security measures. Such measures may not, for example, in the case of misappropriation of a trade secret by an employee or third party with authorized access, provide adequate protection for our proprietary information. Our security measures may not prevent an employee or consultant from misappropriating our trade secrets and providing them to a competitor, and recourse we take against such misconduct may not provide an adequate remedy to protect our interests fully. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret can be difficult, expensive, and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, trade secrets may be independently developed by others in a manner that could prevent legal recourse by us. If any of our confidential or proprietary information, such as our trade secrets, were to be disclosed or misappropriated, or if any such information was independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position could be harmed. We may not be able to enforce our intellectual property rights throughout the world. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in certain foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of some countries, particularly developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, 63 Table of Contents especially those relating to biotechnology. This could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents, if obtained, or the misappropriation of our other intellectual property rights. For example, many foreign countries have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner must grant licenses to third parties. In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against third parties, including government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, patents may provide limited or no benefit. Patent protection must ultimately be sought on a country-by-country basis, which is an expensive and time-consuming process with uncertain outcomes. Accordingly, we may choose not to seek patent protection in certain countries, and we will not have the benefit of patent protection in such countries. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. Accordingly, our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights in such countries may be inadequate. In addition, changes in the law and legal decisions by courts in the United States and foreign countries may affect our ability to obtain adequate protection for our technology and the enforcement of intellectual property. Third parties may assert ownership or commercial rights to inventions we develop. Third parties may in the future make claims challenging the inventorship or ownership of our intellectual property. For example, we rely on certain third parties to provide us with tissue samples and biological materials that we use to conduct our genomic analyses. We have written agreements with collaborators that provide for the ownership of intellectual property arising from our collaborations. These agreements provide that we must negotiate certain commercial rights with collaborators with respect to joint inventions or inventions made by our collaborators that arise from the results of the collaboration. In some instances, there may not be adequate written provisions to address clearly the resolution of intellectual property rights that may arise from a collaboration. If we cannot successfully negotiate sufficient ownership and commercial rights to the inventions that result from our use of a third-party collaborator’s materials where required, or if disputes otherwise arise with respect to the intellectual property developed with the use of a collaborator’s samples, we may be limited in our ability to capitalize on the market potential of these inventions. In addition, we may face claims by third parties that our agreements with employees, contractors, or consultants obligating them to assign intellectual property to us are ineffective, or in conflict with prior or competing contractual obligations of assignment, which could result in ownership disputes regarding intellectual property we have developed or will develop and interfere with our ability to capture the commercial value of such inventions. Litigation may be necessary to resolve an ownership dispute, and if we are not successful, we may be precluded from using certain intellectual property, or may lose our exclusive rights in that intellectual property. Either outcome could have an adverse impact on our business. Third parties may assert that our employees or consultants have wrongfully used or disclosed confidential information or misappropriated trade secrets. We employ individuals who were previously employed at universities or other diagnostic or biopharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although we try to ensure that our employees and consultants do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or our employees, consultants or independent contractors have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of a former employer or other third parties. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and other employees. 64 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Financial Condition and Capital Requirements We are an early-, commercial-stage company and have a limited operating history, which may make it difficult to evaluate our current business and predict our future performance. We are an early-, commercial-stage company and have a limited operating history. We were incorporated in Delaware and began operations in November 2009. Our limited operating history, particularly in light of our business model based upon sales of novel products enabled by our molecular information platform and the rapidly evolving genomic analysis industry, may make it difficult to evaluate our current business and predict our future performance. Any assessment of our profitability or prediction about our future success or viability is subject to significant uncertainty. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by early-, commercial-stage companies in rapidly evolving industries. If we do not address these risks successfully, our business will suffer. We have a history of net losses. We expect to incur net losses in the future and we may never achieve sustained profitability. We have historically incurred substantial net losses, including a net loss of $42.9 million in 2013. From our inception in 2009 through December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $89.8 million. We expect our losses to continue as a result of ongoing research and development expenses and increased sales and marketing costs. These losses have had, and will continue to have, an adverse effect on our working capital, total assets, and stockholders’ equity. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our research, development, and commercialization efforts, we are unable to predict when we will become profitable, and we may never become profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our inability to achieve and then maintain profitability would negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We may need to raise additional capital to fund our existing operations, develop our molecular information platform, commercialize new products and expand our operations. If our available cash balances, net proceeds from our initial public offering, and anticipated cash flow from operations are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements including because of lower demand for our products as a result of lower than currently expected rates of reimbursement from commercial third-party payors and government payors or other risks described in this Annual Report, we may seek to sell common or preferred equity or convertible debt securities, enter into an additional credit facility or another form of third-party funding, or seek other debt financing. We may consider raising additional capital in the future to expand our business, to pursue strategic investments, to take advantage of financing opportunities, or for other reasons, including to: • increase our sales and marketing efforts to drive market adoption of FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme and address competitive developments; • fund development and marketing efforts of any future products; • further expand our clinical laboratory operations; • expand our technologies into other types of cancers; • acquire, license or invest in technologies, including information technologies; • acquire or invest in complementary businesses or assets; and • finance capital expenditures and general and administrative expenses. 65 Table of Contents Our present and future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: • our ability to achieve revenue growth; • our rate of progress in establishing reimbursement arrangements with domestic and international commercial third-party payors and government payors; • the cost of expanding our laboratory operations and offerings, including our sales and marketing efforts; • our rate of progress in, and cost of the sales and marketing activities associated with, establishing adoption of and reimbursement for FoundationOne and FoundationOne Heme; • our rate of progress in, and cost of research and development activities associated with, products in research and early development; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; • costs related to international expansion; and • the potential cost of and delays in product development as a result of any regulatory oversight applicable to our products. The various ways we could raise additional capital carry potential risks. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to our stockholders could result. Any equity securities issued also could provide for rights, preferences, or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we raise funds by issuing debt securities, those debt securities would have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. The terms of debt securities issued or borrowings pursuant to a credit agreement could impose significant restrictions on our operations. If we raise funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we might be required to relinquish significant rights to our platform technologies or products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. The credit markets and the financial services industry have experienced a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse, or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government. These events have generally made equity and debt financing more difficult to obtain. Accordingly, additional equity or debt financing might not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, our current loan and security agreement with Lighthouse restricts our ability to raise funds through additional debt or other financing options. If we cannot secure additional funding when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more research and development programs or sales and marketing initiatives. In addition, we may have to work with a partner on one or more of our development programs, which could lower the economic value of those programs to us. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company and our management devotes substantial time to public company compliance programs. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses due to our compliance with regulations and disclosure obligations applicable to us, including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and the NASDAQ Stock Market, or NASDAQ. The SEC and other regulators have continued to adopt new rules and regulations and make additional changes to existing regulations that require our compliance. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that have required the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas. Stockholder activism, the current political environment, and the current high level of government intervention and regulatory reform may lead to substantial new regulations and disclosure obligations, which may lead to additional compliance costs and 66 Table of Contents impact, in ways we cannot currently anticipate, the manner in which we operate our business. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance programs and monitoring of public company reporting obligations, and as a result of the new corporate governance and executive compensation related rules, regulations, and guidelines prompted by the Dodd-Frank Act, and further regulations and disclosure obligations expected in the future, we will likely need to devote additional time and costs to comply with such compliance programs and rules. These rules and regulations will cause us to incur significant legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. To comply with the requirements of being a public company, we may need to undertake various actions, including implementing new internal controls and procedures and hiring new accounting or internal audit staff. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. We are continuing to develop and refine our disclosure controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file with the SEC is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms, and that information required to be disclosed in reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, is accumulated and communicated to our principal executive and financial officers. Our current controls and any new controls that we develop may become inadequate, and weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may be discovered in the future. Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls could adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual independent registered public accounting firm attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, which we may be required to include in our periodic reports we will file with the SEC under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, or result in a restatement of our prior period financial statements. In the event that we are not able to demonstrate compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, that our internal control over financial reporting is perceived as inadequate, or that we are unable to produce timely or accurate financial statements, investors may lose confidence in our operating results, and the price of our ordinary shares could decline. In addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. We will be required to comply with certain of the SEC rules that implement Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting commencing with our second annual report. This assessment needs to include the disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by our management or our independent registered public accounting firm. We are just beginning the costly and challenging process of compiling the system and processing documentation needed to comply with such requirements. We may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing, and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. Our independent registered public accounting firm may not be required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until the later of our second annual report or the first annual report required to be filed with the SEC following the date we are no longer an “emerging growth company” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, depending on whether we choose to rely on certain exemptions set forth in the JOBS Act. We cannot assure you that there will not be material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls in the future. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our ordinary shares. 67 Table of Contents Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to annual limitations on its ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards or other tax attributes, or NOLs, to offset future taxable income or reduce taxes. Our past issuances of stock and other changes in our stock ownership may have resulted in ownership changes within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code; accordingly, our pre-change NOLs may be subject to limitation under Section 382. If we determine that we have not undergone an ownership change, the Internal Revenue Service could challenge our analysis, and our ability to use our NOLs to offset taxable income could be limited by Section 382 of the Code. Future changes in our stock ownership, including in connection with our initial public offering, some of which are outside of our control, could result in ownership changes under Section 382 of the Code further limiting our ability to utilize our NOLs. Furthermore, our ability to use NOLs of companies that we may acquire in the future may be subject to limitations. For these reasons, we may not be able to use a material portion of the NOLs, even if we attain profitability. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We expect that our stock price may fluctuate significantly. The initial public offering of our common stock was completed in September 2013 at a price of $18.00 per share. There has been a public market for our common stock for only a short period of time. Although our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, an active public market for our common stock may not be sustained. In addition, the market price of shares of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many risk factors listed in this section, and others beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results; • actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate relative to our competitors; • competition from existing products or new products that may emerge; • announcements by us, our biopharmaceutical partners, or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, collaborations, or capital commitments; • failure to meet or exceed financial estimates and projections of the investment community or that we provide to the public; • issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities analysts; • fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; • share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; • additions or departures of key management or scientific personnel; • disputes or other developments related to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters, and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; • changes to reimbursement levels by commercial third-party payors and government payors, including Medicare, and any announcements relating to reimbursement levels; • announcement or expectation of additional debt or equity financing efforts; • sales of our common stock by us, our insiders, or our other stockholders; and • general economic and market conditions. 68 Table of Contents These and other market and industry factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, regardless of our actual operating performance, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general, and NASDAQ and biopharmaceutical companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. Our executive officers, directors, and principal stockholders exercise significant control over our company. Investment funds affiliated with Third Rock Ventures and Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, and Google Ventures 2011, L.P., along with our executive officers and directors, beneficially own, in the aggregate, shares representing more than a majority of our outstanding capital stock as of December 31, 2013. If these stockholders were to choose to act together, as a result of their stock ownership, they could influence our management and affairs and control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and approval of any merger, consolidation, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and might affect the market price of our common stock. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares of common stock are restricted from immediate resale but may be sold into the market in the near future, which could cause our stock price to decline. A significant number of our outstanding shares are subject to a contractual lock-up and other legal restrictions on resale pursuant to lock-up agreements that our officers, directors, and a significant majority of our stockholders executed in connection with our initial public offering. If these stockholders sell, or indicate an intent to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market after the expiration of the lock-up period on March 25, 2014, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly and could decline below the initial public offering price. After the lock-up agreements pertaining to our initial public offering expire, and based on shares outstanding as of December 31, 2013, an additional 20,886,935 shares will be eligible for sale in the public market. In addition, as of December 31, 2013, upon issuance, the 2,314,284 shares subject to outstanding options under our 2010 and 2013 stock option plans, the 1,139,294 shares reserved for future issuance under our 2013 stock option plan, and the 788,503 shares reserved for future issuance under our employee stock purchase plan will become eligible for sale in the public market in the future, subject to certain legal and contractual limitations. Moreover, on March 25, 2014, holders of approximately 17,178,024 shares of our common stock will have the right to require us to register these shares under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, pursuant to an investors’ rights agreement. If our existing stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or if the public perceives that such sales could occur, this could have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock, even if there is no relationship between such sales and the performance of our business. We will have broad discretion in how we use the net proceeds from our initial public offering. We may not use these proceeds effectively, which could affect our results of operations and cause our stock price to decline. We will have considerable discretion in the application of the net proceeds from our initial public offering. We intend to use the net proceeds from our initial public offering for expansion of our commercial and laboratory operations, ongoing and new clinical trials, supporting our molecular information platform, and for working capital and other general corporate purposes. We may use the net proceeds for purposes that do not yield a significant return or any return at all for our stockholders. In addition, we may invest the net proceeds from our initial public offering in a manner that does not produce income or that loses value. 69 Table of Contents We are an “emerging growth company” and will be able to avail ourselves of reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, which could make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, and we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies,” including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. However, we are electing not to take advantage of such extended transition period, and as a result we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to not take advantage of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on any of the exemptions available under the JOBS Act. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an emerging growth company. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of $1.0 billion or more; (ii) the last day of our fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the date of the completion of our initial public offering; (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in nonconvertible debt during the previous three years; and (iv) the date on which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the SEC. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. Consequently, any gains from an investment in our common stock will likely depend on whether the price of our common stock increases. We have not paid dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date, and we currently intend to retain all of our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of our indebtedness with Lighthouse prohibit us from paying dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Consequently, in the foreseeable future, you will likely only experience a gain from your investment in our common stock if the price of our common stock increases. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control these analysts. The price of our common stock could decline if one or more equity analysts downgrade our common stock or if analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. 70 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law contain provisions which could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. Our corporate governance documents include provisions: • creating a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms; • authorizing “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend, and other rights superior to our common stock; • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; • requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; • controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board of directors and stockholder meetings; and • providing our board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings. These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware shall be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, or other employees to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and consented to the provisions of our certificate of incorporation described above. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers, and other employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 71 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 