ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks and uncertainties, together with all other information in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, should be considered carefully. Any of the risk factors we describe below could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, and could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry Our future profitability is uncertain. We have historically incurred significant net operating losses. As a result of these operating losses, we accumulated a deficit of $80.1 million from June 15, 2007, the date on which, through a series of transactions, all of the outstanding equity of IntraLinks, Inc. was acquired by a newly formed entity, TA Indigo Holding Corporation, which was owned by TA Associates, Inc., Rho Capital Partners, Inc., a principal stockholder in IntraLinks, Inc. since 2001, and other stockholders, including former and current officers and employees of IntraLinks, Inc. (the “Merger”),through December 31, 2011. Our future profitability depends on, among other things, our ability to generate revenue in excess of our expenses. However, since our initial public offering in August 2010, we have incurred and will continue to incur as a public company significant additional legal, accounting and other expenses to which we were not subject as a private company, including expenses related to our efforts in complying with the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other public company disclosure and corporate governance requirements, responding to requests of government regulators and defending the class action and stockholder derivative lawsuits filed against us. At the same time, we have significant and continuing fixed costs relating to the maintenance of our assets and business, including our substantial debt service requirements, which we may not be able to reduce adequately to sustain our profitability if our revenue decreases. Our profitability also may be impacted by non-cash charges such as stock-based compensation charges and potential impairment of goodwill, which will negatively affect our reported financial results. Even if we achieve our profitability on an annual basis, we may not be able to achieve profitability on a quarterly basis. You should not consider prior revenue growth as indicative of our future performance. In fact, in future quarters we may not have any revenue growth and our revenue could decline. We may continue to incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including the other risks described in this Form 10-K, and we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unknown events. Our failure to achieve and maintain our profitability could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. We may be unable to sustain positive cash flow. Our ability to continue to generate positive cash flow depends on our ability to generate collections from sales in excess of our cash expenditures. Our collections from sales can be negatively affected by many factors, including but not limited to: • our inability to convince new customers to use our services or existing customers to renew their contracts or use additional services; • the lengthening of our sales cycle; • changes in our customer mix; • a decision by any of our existing customers to cease or reduce using our services; • failure of customers to pay our invoices on a timely basis or at all; • a failure in the performance of our solutions or our internal controls that adversely affects our reputation or results in loss of business; • the loss of market share to existing or new competitors; 8 TABLE OF CONTENTS • regional or global economic conditions affecting the perceived need or value of our services; and • our inability to develop new products or expand our offering on a timely basis and thus potentially not meeting evolving market needs. We anticipate that we will incur increased sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses as we continue to diversify our business into new industries and geographic markets. Our business will also require significant amounts of working capital to support our growth. In addition, we face significant expenditures in connection with our public company disclosure, Sarbanes-Oxley and other corporate governance requirements, pending class action and stockholder derivative lawsuits and SEC investigation involving us. We may not achieve sufficient collections from sales to offset these anticipated expenditures to maintain positive future cash flow. In addition, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unknown events that cause our costs to exceed our expectations. An inability to generate positive cash flow may decrease our long-term viability. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which may have an impact on our stock price. Our operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future. As a result, we may not be able to accurately forecast our revenues or operating results. Our operating results may fall below market analysts’ expectations in some future quarters, which could lead to downturns in the market price of our common stock. Quarterly fluctuations may result from factors such as: • changes in the markets that we serve; • changes in demand for our services; • rate of penetration within our existing customer base; • loss of customers or business from one or more customers, including from consolidations and acquisitions of customers; • increased competition; • changes in the mix of customer types; • changes in our standard service contracts that may affect when we recognize revenue; • loss of key personnel; • interruption in our service resulting in a loss of revenue; • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; • write-offs affecting any of our material assets; • changes in our operating expenses; • customer credits issued in excess of established reserves; • software “bugs” or other service quality problems; • concerns relating to the security of our systems; and • general economic conditions. We believe that our quarterly operating results may vary significantly in the future, that period-to-period comparisons of results of operations may not necessarily be meaningful and, as a result, such comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS We have a substantial amount of debt that exposes us to risks that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We had total indebtedness of $91.6 million outstanding as of December 31, 2011, pursuant to our First Lien Credit Agreement entered into on June 15, 2007, as amended (the “First Lien Credit Facility”), which is secured by liens on substantially all of our assets. The level and nature of our indebtedness could, among other things: • make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary financing in the future; • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business; • reduce funds available for use in our operations and corporate development initiatives; • impair our ability to incur additional debt because of financial and other restrictive covenants or the liens on our assets which secure our current debt; • hinder our ability to raise equity capital, because in the event of a liquidation of our business, debt holders receive a priority before equity holders; • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business; and • place us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. In addition, we may incur significantly more debt in the future, which will increase each of the risks described above related to our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011, we had $12.9 million available to us for additional borrowing under a $15.0 million revolving credit facility. If we increase our indebtedness by borrowing under our credit facility or incur other new indebtedness, each of the risks described above would increase. Failure to maintain the security and integrity of our systems could seriously damage our reputation and affect our ability to retain customers and attract new business. Maintaining the security and integrity of our systems is an issue of critical importance for our customers and users because they use our systems to store and exchange large volumes of proprietary and confidential information. Individuals and groups may develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack or attempt to infiltrate our systems. We may not be able to detect and prevent such events from occurring. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and customers. In addition, we rely upon our customers and users of our solutions to perform important activities relating to the security of the data maintained on our IntraLinks Platform, such as assignment of user access rights and administration of document access controls. Because we do not control the access provided by our customers to third-parties with respect to the data on our systems, we cannot ensure the complete integrity or security of such data in our systems. Errors or wrongdoing by users resulting in security breaches may be attributed to us. Because many of our engagements involve business-critical projects for financial institutions and their customers and for other types of customers where confidentiality is of paramount importance, a failure or inability to meet customers’ expectations with respect to security and confidentiality could seriously damage our reputation and affect our ability to retain customers and attract new business. The security and integrity of our systems also may be jeopardized by a breach of our internal controls and policies by our employees, consultants or subcontractors having access to such systems. If our systems fail or are breached as a result of a third-party attack or an error, violation of internal controls or policies or a breach of contract by an employee, consultant or subcontractor causing the unauthorized disclosure of proprietary or confidential information or customer data, we may lose business, suffer irreparable damage to our reputation, and incur significant costs and expenses relating to the investigation and possible litigation of claims relating to such event. We may be liable in such event for damages, penalties for violation of 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS applicable laws or regulations and costs for remediation and efforts to prevent future occurrences, any of which liabilities could be significant. There can be no assurance that the limitations of liability in our contracts would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. We also cannot assure you that our existing general liability insurance coverage and coverage for errors and omissions will continue to be available on acceptable terms or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in a substantial cost to us and divert management’s attention from our operations. Any significant claim or litigation against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends substantially on customers renewing and expanding their subscriptions for our services. Any decline in our customer renewals and expansions would harm our future operating results. We enter into subscription agreements with certain of our customers that are generally one year in length. As a result, maintaining the renewal rate of our subscription agreements is critical to our future success. Contracts with annual commitment terms typically contain an automatic renewal clause; however, optional notification of non-renewal is typically permitted to be given by customers within 30 to 90 days prior to the end of the contract term. Repeat customers who do not have automatic renewal terms typically negotiate renewal terms at each annual termination date. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our services after the expiration of the initial term of their agreements, and some customers have elected not to do so. We cannot assure you that any of our customer agreements will be renewed. The loss of any customers that individually or collectively account for a significant amount of our revenues would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our renewal rates may decline due to a variety of factors, including: • the price, performance and functionality of our solutions; • the availability, price, performance and functionality of competing products and services; • our ability to demonstrate to new customers the value of our solutions within the initial term; • the relative ease and low cost of moving to a competing product or service; • consolidation in our customer base; • the effects of economic downturns, including the current global economic recession, and global economic conditions; • reductions in our customers’ spending levels; or • if any of our customers cease using, or anticipate declining requirements for, our services in their operations. If our renewal rates are lower than anticipated or decline for any reason, or if customers renew on terms less favorable to us, our revenue may decrease and our profitability and gross margin may be harmed, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A significant part of our business is derived from the use of our solutions in connection with financial and strategic business transactions. If the volume of such transactions does not increase, demand for our services may not grow and could decline. A significant portion of our revenue depends on the purchase of our services by parties involved in financial and strategic business transactions such as mergers and acquisitions, loan syndications and other debt capital markets transactions. During the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, revenues generated from the mergers and acquisitions (“M&A”) and debt capital markets (“DCM”) principal markets, constituted approximately 61%, 55% and 55%, respectively, of our total revenues. If the volume of such 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS transactions does not increase, demand for our services may not grow and could decline. The credit crisis, deterioration of global economies, rising unemployment and reduced equity valuations all create risks that could harm our business. If macroeconomic conditions worsen, we are not able to predict the impact of such worsening conditions on our results of operations. The level of activity in the financial services industry, including the financial transactions our services are used to support, is sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including interest rates, regulatory policies, general economic conditions, our customers’ competitive environments, business trends, terrorism and political change. Unfavorable conditions or changes in any of these factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We face shareholder lawsuits and other potential liabilities that could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have been, are currently and may in the future be the subject of various lawsuits, proceedings and investigations. In December 2011, we and certain of our current and former officers and directors were named as defendants in class action and stockholder derivative lawsuits. In addition, in August 2011, we received a subpoena from the SEC requesting certain documents related to our business from January 1, 2011 through August 4, 2011. See “Item 3-Legal Proceedings” for more information about these matters. Given the stage of these lawsuits and the nature of the SEC investigation, we are unable to assess or quantify with any certainty their outcome, timing or potential costs. We may be required to pay substantial amounts, divert management’s attention from the operation of our business or change our business practices in defending and ultimately resolving these matters, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and, consequently, the trading price of our common stock. The outcome and amount of resources needed to defend or resolve lawsuits or regulatory actions, and respond to regulatory requests, is unpredictable and may remain unknown for long periods of time. The SEC may choose to expand the scope of its investigation or initiate an enforcement action to bring charges against us. In addition, the plaintiffs and SEC, if an enforcement action is initiated, may seek recovery of very large damage awards, substantial fines or significant restrictions on our business. Our exposure under these matters will also include our indemnification obligations, to the extent we have any, to current and former officers and directors against losses incurred in connection these matters, including reimbursement of legal fees. Although we maintain insurance for claims of this nature, our insurance coverage does not apply in all such circumstances and may be denied or insufficient to cover the costs related to the class action and stockholder derivative lawsuits and SEC investigation. In addition, these matters or future lawsuits or investigations involving us may increase our insurance premiums, deductibles or co-insurance requirements or otherwise make it more difficult for us to maintain or obtain adequate insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all. Moreover, adverse publicity associated with regulatory actions and investigations and negative developments in pending legal proceedings could decrease customer demand for our services. As a result, the pending lawsuits and SEC investigation and any future lawsuits or investigations involving us or our officers or directors could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and the trading price of our common stock. In addition, to the extent that we have recorded accruals for probable loss contingencies, such accruals may not be sufficient to cover our ultimate financial exposure associated with any settlements or judgments. Changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy applicable to our customers or potential customers may decrease the demand for our solutions. The level of our customers’ and potential customers’ activity in the business processes our services are used to support is sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including governmental regulation and regulatory policies. Many of our customers and potential customers in the life sciences, energy, utilities, insurance, financial and other industries are subject to substantial regulation and may be the subject of further regulation in the future. Accordingly, significant new laws or regulations or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws, regulations or governmental policy may change the way these customers do business and could cause the demand for and sales of our solutions to decrease. For example, many products developed by our customers in the life sciences industry require approval of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and other similar foreign regulatory agencies before they can market their products. The processes for filing and obtaining FDA approval to market these products are guided by specific protocols that our services help 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS support, such as U.S. 21 CFR Part 11 which provides the criteria for acceptance by the FDA of electronic records. If new government regulations from future legislation or administrative action or from changes in FDA or foreign regulatory policies occur in the future, the services we currently provide may no longer support these life science processes and protocols, and we may lose customers in the life sciences industry. Any change in the scope of applicable regulations that decreases the volume of transactions that our customers or potential customers enter into or otherwise negatively impact their use of our solutions would have a material adverse effect on our revenues or gross margins. Moreover, complying with increased or changed regulations could cause our operating expenses to increase. We may have to reconfigure our existing services or develop new services to adapt to new regulatory rules and policies which will require additional expense and time. Such changes could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to increase our penetration in our existing principal markets and expand into additional markets, we will be unable to grow our business and increase revenue. We currently market our solutions for a wide range of business processes. These include clinical trial management; safety information exchange and drug development and licensing for the life sciences industry; private equity fundraising and investor reporting; energy exploration and production ventures for the oil and gas industry; loan syndication and other debt capital markets transactions; due diligence for mergers and acquisitions; public offerings and other strategic transactions; contract and vendor management; and board reporting. We intend to continue to focus our sales and marketing efforts in these markets to grow our business. In addition, we believe our future growth depends not only on increasing our penetration into the principal markets in which our services are currently used, but also identifying and expanding the number of industries, communities and markets that use or could use our services. Efforts to expand our service offerings beyond the markets that we currently serve, however, may divert management resources from existing operations and require us to commit significant financial resources to an unproven business, either of which could significantly impair our operating results. Moreover, efforts to expand beyond our existing markets may never result in new services that achieve market acceptance, create additional revenue or become profitable. Our inability to further penetrate our existing markets or our inability to identify additional markets and achieve acceptance of our services in these additional markets could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to maintain or expand our direct sales capabilities, we may not be able to generate anticipated revenues. We rely primarily on our direct sales force to sell our services. Our services and solutions require a sophisticated sales effort targeted at the senior management of our prospective customers. We must expand our sales efforts to generate increased revenue from new customers. Failure to hire or retain qualified sales personnel will preclude us from expanding our business and generating anticipated revenue. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our existing sales personnel or attract, assimilate or retain enough highly qualified sales personnel. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. If any of our sales representatives or sales management personnel were to leave us and join one of our competitors, we may be unable to prevent such sales representatives from helping competitors to solicit business from our existing customers, which could adversely affect our revenue. In addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the software industry, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options they are to receive in connection with their employment. We have experienced and may continue to experience a substantial decline in the trading price of our stock. Accordingly, if the price of our stock is subject to a lengthy period of continued decline or significant volatility, our ability to attract or retain key employees could be materially impaired. In the past, our sales force has experienced high turnover rates. New hires require training and take time to achieve full productivity. If we experience high turnover in our sales force in the future, we cannot be certain that new hires will become as productive as necessary to maintain or increase our revenue. Our performance depends on customer referrals from financial institutions and other users of our services. We depend on end-users of our solutions to generate customer referrals for our services. We depend in part on the financial institutions, legal providers and other third parties who use our services to recommend 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS them to a larger customer base than we can reach through our direct sales and internal marketing efforts. For instance, a significant portion of our revenues from the mergers and acquisitions sector business is derived from referrals by investment banks, financial advisors and law firms that have relied on our services in connection with merger and acquisition transactions. These referrals are an important source of new customers for our services, and generally are made without expectation of compensation. We intend to continue to focus our marketing efforts on these referral partners in order to expand our reach and improve the efficiency of our sales efforts. The willingness of these users to provide referrals depends on a number of factors, including the performance, ease of use, reliability, reputation and cost-effectiveness of our services as compared to those offered by our competitors. We may not be able to maintain strong relationships with these financial institutions or professional advisors. The loss of any of our significant referral sources or a decline in the number of referrals could require us to devote substantially more resources to the sales and marketing of our services, which would increase our costs, and could lead to a decline in our revenue, slow our growth and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the revenue we generate from our referral relationships may vary from period to period. We may lose sales opportunities if we do not successfully develop and maintain strategic relationships to sell and deliver our solutions. In addition to generating customer referrals through third-party users of our solutions, we intend to pursue additional relationships with other third parties, such as technology and content providers and implementation partners. Identifying partners and negotiating and documenting relationships with them require significant time and resources as does integrating third-party content and technology. Some of these third parties have entered and may continue to enter, into strategic relationships with our competitors. Further, these third parties may have multiple strategic relationships and may not regard us as significant for their businesses. They may terminate their respective relationships with us, pursue other partnerships or relationships, or attempt to develop or acquire services or solutions that compete with ours. Our strategic partners also may interfere with our ability to enter into other desirable strategic relationships. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with these third parties on favorable economic terms, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenue could be impaired, and our business, results of operations and financial condition would suffer. Even if we are successful, we cannot assure you that these relationships will result in increased revenue or customer usage of our solutions or that the economic terms of these relationships will not adversely affect our margins. The nature of our transactional contracts, such as those for merger and acquisition transactions, require frequent new contracts with customers. Many of our contracts with customers are entered into in connection with discrete one-time financial and strategic business transactions and projects such as merger and acquisition transactions. During the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, revenues generated from transactional contracts constituted approximately 53%, 43% and 46%, respectively, of our total revenues. These transactional agreements typically have initial terms of six to twelve months depending on the purpose of the exchange. Accordingly, our business depends on our ability to replace these transactional agreements as they expire. Our inability to enter into new contracts with existing customers or find new customers to replace these contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Consolidation in the commercial and investment banking industries and other industries we serve could adversely impact our business by eliminating a number of our existing and potential customers. There has been, and continues to be, merger, acquisition and consolidation activity among our customers. Mergers or consolidations of banks and financial institutions, in particular, have reduced and may continue to reduce the number of our customers and potential customers for our solutions. A smaller market for our services could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. In addition, it is possible that the larger institutions which result from mergers or consolidations could perform themselves some or all of the services that we currently provide or could provide. A merger of two of our existing customers may also result in the merged entity deciding not to use our service or to purchase fewer of our services than the companies did separately or may result in the merged entity seeking pricing advantages or 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS discounts using the leverage of its increased size. If that were to occur, it could adversely impact our revenue, which in turn would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we do not maintain the compatibility of our services with third-party applications that our customers use in their business processes, demand for our services could decline. Our solutions can be used alongside a wide range of other systems, such as email and enterprise software systems used by our customers in their businesses. If we do not support the continued integration of our services with third-party applications, including through the provision of application programming interfaces that enable data to be transferred readily between our services and third-party applications, demand for our services could decline and we could lose sales. We will also be required to make our services compatible with new or additional third-party applications that are introduced to the markets that we serve. We may not be successful in making our services compatible with these third-party applications, which could reduce demand for our services. In addition, prospective customers, especially large enterprise customers, may require heavily customized features and functions unique to their business processes. If prospective customers require customized features or functions that we do not offer, and that would be difficult for them to develop and integrate within our services, then the market for our services will be adversely affected. We operate in highly competitive markets, which could make it more difficult for us to acquire and retain customers. The market for online collaborative content workspaces is intensely competitive and rapidly changing with relatively low barriers to entry. We expect competition to increase from existing competitors as well as new and emerging market entrants. We compete primarily on product functionality, service levels, security and compliance characteristics, price and reputation. Our competitors include companies that provide online products that serve as document repositories or virtual data rooms, together with other products or services, which may result in such companies effectively selling these services at lower prices and creating downward pricing pressure for us. Some of our competitors may have significantly greater financial resources. They may be able to devote greater resources to the development and improvement of their services than we can and, as a result, may be able to more quickly implement technological changes and respond to customers’ changing needs. In addition, if our competitors consolidate, or our smaller competitors are acquired by other, larger competitors, they may be able to provide services comparable to ours at a lower price due to their size. Our competitors may also develop services or products that are superior to ours, and their products or services may gain greater market acceptance than our services. Furthermore, our customers or their advisors, including investment banks and law firms, may acquire or develop their own technologies, such as client extranets, that could decrease the need for our services. The arrival of new market entrants or the use of these internal technologies could reduce the demand for our services, or cause us to reduce our pricing, resulting in a loss of revenue and adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. The average sales price of our solutions may decrease, which may reduce our profitability. The average sales price for our solutions may decline for a variety of reasons, including competitive pricing pressures, discounts we offer, a change in the mix of our solutions, anticipation of the introduction of new solutions or promotional programs. Competition continues to increase in the market for online collaborative content workspaces and we expect competition to further increase in the future, thereby leading to increased pricing pressures. We cannot assure you that we will be successful maintaining our prices at levels that will allow us to maintain profitability. Failure to maintain our prices could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to adapt our services to changes in technology or the marketplace, we could lose existing customers and be unable to attract new business. Our customers and users regularly adopt new technologies and industry standards continue to evolve. The introduction of products or services and the emergence of new industry standards can render our existing services obsolete and unmarketable in short periods of time. We expect others to continue to develop and introduce new products and services, and enhancements to existing products and services, which will compete with our services. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to enhance our current services and 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS to develop and introduce new services that keep pace with technological developments, emerging industry standards and the needs of our customers. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in cost effectively developing, marketing and selling new services or service enhancements that meet these changing demands, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these services, or that our new service and service enhancements will adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. Our customers may adopt technologies that decrease the demand for our services, which could reduce our revenue and adversely affect our business. We target large institutions such as commercial banks, investment banks and life sciences companies for many of our services and we depend on their continued need for our services. However, over time, our customers or their advisors, such as law firms, may acquire, adopt or develop their own technologies such as client extranets that decrease the need for our solutions. The use of such internal technologies could reduce the demand for our services, result in pricing pressures or cause a reduction in our revenue. If we fail to manage these challenges adequately, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce and of the international exchange of certain information is subject to possible unfavorable changes, and our failure to comply with applicable regulations could harm our business and operating results. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign governments becomes more likely. For example, we believe increased regulation is likely in the area of data privacy, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information could affect our customers’ ability to use and share data, potentially reducing demand for our products and services. In addition, taxation of products and services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet may also be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Internet use or restricting the exchange of information over the Internet could result in reduced growth or a decline in the use of the Internet and could diminish the viability of our Internet-based services, which could harm our business and operating results. Interruptions or delays in our service due to problems with our third-party web hosting facilities or other third-party service providers could adversely affect our business. We rely on SunGard Availability Services LP for the maintenance of the equipment running our solutions and software at geographically dispersed hosting facilities. Our agreement with SunGard Availability Services LP expires on December 31, 2013. If we are unable to renew, extend or replace this contract, we may be unable to timely arrange for replacement services at a similar cost, which could cause an interruption in our service. We do not control the operation of these SunGard Availability Services LP facilities and each may be subject to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures or similar events. These facilities may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism or similar misconduct. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster, cessation of operations by our third-party web hosting provider or its decision to close a facility without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems at either facility could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. In addition, the failure by these facilities to provide our required data communications capacity could result in interruptions in our service. Further, our services are highly dependent on our computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems. Disruptions in our service and related software systems could be the result of errors or acts by our vendors, customers, users or other third parties, or electronic or physical attacks by persons seeking to disrupt our operations. Any damage to, or failure or capacity limitations of, our systems and our related network could result in interruptions in our service. Interruptions in our service may cause us to lose revenue, cause us to issue credits or refunds, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect our renewal rates. Our business and reputation will be adversely affected if our customers and potential customers believe our service is unreliable. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or future borrowings under our credit facility or from other sources may not be available to us, in amounts sufficient to enable us to repay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, including capital expenditure requirements. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate or obtain enough capital to service our debt and fund our planned capital expenditures and business plan. We may be more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions than less leveraged competitors and thus less able to withstand competitive pressures. Any of these events could reduce our ability to generate cash available for investment or debt repayment or to make improvements or respond to events that would enhance profitability. If we are unable to service or repay our debt when it becomes due, our lenders could seek to accelerate payment of all unpaid principal and foreclose on our assets, and we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity investments or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances. Additionally, we may not be able to effect such actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any such event would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our loan agreement contains operating and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities. We had approximately $91.6 million of debt outstanding under our First Lien Credit Facility as of December 31, 2011. These borrowings are secured by substantially all of our assets, including our intellectual property. Our loan agreement restricts, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness other than in the normal course of business; • create liens; • make capital expenditures, investments and acquisitions; • sell assets; • pay dividends or make distributions on and, in certain cases, repurchase our stock; or • consolidate or merge with other entities. In addition, our loan agreement has a change in control provision that may accelerate the maturity date of our loan. Upon the occurrence of a change in control, all credit facility commitments shall terminate and all loans shall become due and payable. Furthermore, our loan agreement requires us to meet specified minimum financial measurements. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our loan agreement, as well as any future financing agreements that we may enter into, may restrict our ability to finance our operations, engage in business activities or expand or fully pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to meet those covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our loan agreement, which could cause all of the outstanding indebtedness under our loan agreement to become immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. We might require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new services or enhance our existing services, enhance our operating infrastructure and acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our growth may strain our management, information systems and resources. Our business has expanded rapidly in recent years. This rapid growth has placed, and may continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. We intend to further expand our overall business, customer base, headcount and operations both domestically and internationally. Growing a global organization and managing a geographically dispersed workforce will require substantial management effort and significant additional investment in our infrastructure. We will be required to continue to improve our information technology infrastructure, reporting systems and procedures, operational and financial controls, including the remediation of the material weakness identified in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, as well as manage expanded operations in geographically distributed locations. Our expected additional growth will increase our costs, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by offsetting expense reductions in the short term. If we fail to successfully manage our growth we will be unable to successfully execute our business plan, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Expansion of our business internationally will subject us to additional economic and operational risks that could increase our costs and make it difficult for us to operate profitably. One of our key growth strategies is to pursue international expansion. International revenue accounted for approximately 40% and 35% of our revenue in 2011 and 2010, respectively. The continued expansion of our international operations may require significant expenditure of financial and management resources and result in increased administrative and compliance costs. In addition, such expansion will increasingly subject us to the risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including: • foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in reduced revenue and increased operating expenses; • localization of our services, including translation into foreign languages and adaptation for local practices and regulatory requirements; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and increased difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • the effect of applicable foreign tax structures, including tax rates that may be higher than tax rates in the United States or taxes that may be duplicative of those imposed in the United States; • tariffs and trade barriers; • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • general economic and political conditions in each country; • inadequate intellectual property protection in foreign countries; • Increased insurance and employee costs associated with operating in foreign jurisdictions; • dependence on certain third parties, including channel partners with whom we may not have extensive experience; • the difficulties and increased expenses in complying with a variety of foreign laws, regulations and trade standards, including data protection and privacy laws and labor laws which may or may not be in conflict with U.S. law; and • international regulatory environments. Because we recognize revenue for our services ratably over the term of our customer agreements, downturns or upturns in the value of signed contracts will not be fully and immediately reflected in our operating results. We offer our services primarily through fixed commitment contracts and recognize revenue ratably over the related service period, which typically range from six to twelve months. As a result, some portion of the revenue we report in each quarter is revenue from contracts entered into during prior quarters. Consequently, a decline in signed contracts in any quarter will not be fully and immediately reflected in the revenue of that 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS quarter and will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to offset this reduced revenue. Similarly, revenue attributable to an increase in contracts signed in a particular quarter will not be fully and immediately recognized in the quarter that the contract is signed, as revenue from new or renewed contracts is recognized ratably over the applicable service period. Because we incur sales commissions at the time of sale, we may not recognize revenues from some customers despite incurring considerable expense related to our sales processes. Timing differences of this nature could cause our margins and profitability to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Our offerings of new services or products may be subject to complex revenue recognition standards, which could materially affect our financial results. As we introduce new services or products, revenue recognition could become increasingly complex and require additional analysis and judgment. Additionally, we may negotiate and revise terms and conditions of our contracts with customers and channel partners, which may also cause us to revise our revenue recognition policies. As our arrangements with customers evolve, we may be required to defer a greater portion of revenue into future periods, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. The sales cycles for enterprise customers can be long and unpredictable, and require considerable time and expense, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate. The timing of our revenue from sales to enterprise customers is difficult to predict. These efforts require us to educate our customers about the use and benefit of our services, including the technical capabilities and potential cost savings to an organization. Enterprise customers typically undertake a significant evaluation process that has in the past resulted in a lengthy sales cycle, typically several months. We spend substantial time, effort and money on our enterprise sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. If sales expected from a specific customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, our results could fall short of public expectations and our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to our review of the calculation of allowable capital expenditures under a financial covenant in our First Lien Credit Facility. If we are unable to adequately remediate this material weakness, our ability to prevent an unidentified breach, and resulting default, under our First Lien Credit Facility would be diminished and we could be required to restate our consolidated financial statements to reclassify the long-term indebtedness thereunder as a current liability. In connection with management’s assessment on internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2011, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to the calculation of our maximum capital expenditures allowed under our First Lien Credit Facility. Specifically, we failed to accurately calculate the maximum annual capital expenditure limit for the year ended December 31, 2011 under a financial covenant set forth in our First Lien Credit Facility and did not design effective controls to ensure an adequate reviewof the schedule used for such calculation. Although this material weakness did not result in any non-compliance with the covenant set forth in our First Lien Credit Facility and did not affect our consolidated financial statements for any of the periods presented within this Annual Report on Form 10-K, management determined that our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure control and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2011. We are in the process of remediating this material weakness as more fully described under “Item 9A: Controls and Procedures,” and may identify areas for further attention and improvement. In addition, we cannot be certain that any remedial measures we have begun to take, or intend to take, will adequately remediate the weakness. Our failure to prevent or timely detect an error of this nature in the future could create the potential for an inadvertent breach of this financial covenant that, if not waived by the lenders, could result in a default under the loan facility causing all outstanding indebtedness thereunder to become immediately due, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition and ability to access third party sources of capital, See “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business and Industry — Our loan agreement contains operating and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities” and “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS Capital Resources — Covenants.” In addition, any such default could require us to restate the long-term indebtedness reflected in our consolidated financial statements as a current liability, which could materially adversely affect investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and, in turn, materially harm the market price of our common stock, our business, reputation, financial position and results of operations. If we are unable to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting in the future, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be materially impaired, which could harm our operating results, investors’ views of us and, as a result, the value of our common stock. Upon registration of our shares of common stock with the Securities Exchange Commission (“SEC”), we became required to maintain the effectiveness of both disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. In addition, beginning with this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, we became subject to the requirement to perform an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and obtain a report from our independent registered public accounting firm addressing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In connection with this assessment, management determined that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were not effective as of December 31, 2011 as a result of the material weakness described above and in “Item 9A: Controls and Procedures”. We may not be able to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting in the future. If we are not able to maintain adequate compliance with these requirements in future years, we may be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis or our independent registered public accounting firm may be unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, which could subject us to SEC or other regulatory investigations or proceedings, violations of New York Stock Exchange listing rules and loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, and, in turn, materially adversely affect our business, reputation, financial position, results of operations and the market price of our common stock. In addition, we could be required to incur substantial accounting and auditing expense and significant management time in complying with these requirements or remediating any material weaknesses that may be identified in the future, or in responding to any regulatory investigations or proceedings. We rely on third-party software and hardware to support our system and services and our business and reputation could suffer if our services fail to perform properly. We rely on hardware purchased or leased and software licensed from third parties to offer our service. This hardware and software may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Any loss of the right to use any of this hardware or software could result in delays in the provisioning of our services, which could negatively affect our business until equivalent technology is either developed by us or, if available, is identified, obtained and integrated. The software underlying our services can contain undetected errors or bugs. We may be forced to delay commercial release of our services until such problems are corrected and, in some cases, may need to implement enhancements to correct errors that we do not detect until after deployment of our services. In addition, problems with the software underlying our services could result in: • damage to our reputation; • loss of or delayed revenue; • loss of customers; • warranty claims or litigation; • loss of or delayed market acceptance of our services; and • unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy errors. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our use of “open source” software could negatively affect our ability to sell our services and subject us to possible litigation. A portion of the technologies licensed by us incorporates “open source” software, and we may incorporate open source software in the future. Such open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses. If we fail to comply with these licenses, we may be subject to certain conditions, including requirements that we offer our services that incorporate the open source software for no cost, that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating or using the open source software and that we license such modifications or alterations under the terms of the particular open source license. If an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations and could be subject to significant damages, enjoined from the sale of our services that contained the open source software and required to comply with the foregoing conditions, which could disrupt the distribution and sale of some of our services. If we are found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, we could be required to redesign our services, pay significant royalties or enter into license agreements with third parties. This may significantly increase our costs or adversely affect our results of operations and stock price. A third-party may assert that our technology or services violates its intellectual property rights. In particular, as the number of products and services offered in our markets, as well as the number of related patents issued in the United States and elsewhere, increase, and the functionality of these products and services further overlap, we believe that infringement claims may arise. Any claims, regardless of their merit, could: • be expensive and time-consuming to defend; • force us to stop providing services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • require us to redesign our technology and services; • divert management’s attention and other company resources; and • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology and other rights, the value of our business and our competitive position may be impaired. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could use our intellectual property to market products and services similar to ours, which could decrease demand for our services. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws as well as third-party nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. These protections may not be adequate to prevent our competitors from copying or reverse-engineering our technology and services to create similar offerings. The scope of patent protection, if any, we may obtain from our patent applications is difficult to predict and our patents may be found invalid, unenforceable, or of insufficient scope to prevent competitors from offering similar services. Our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors, subcontractors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements and maintain policies and procedures to limit access to our trade secrets and proprietary information. These agreements and the other actions taken by us may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information from unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. Existing copyright and patent laws may not provide adequate or meaningful protection in the event competitors independently develop technology, products or services similar to ours. Even if such laws provide protection, we may have insufficient resources to take the legal actions necessary to protect our interests. In addition, our intellectual property rights and interests may not be afforded the same protection under the laws of foreign countries as they are under the laws of the United States. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our success depends on our customers’ continued high-speed access to the Internet and the continued reliability of the Internet infrastructure. Our future sales growth depends on our customers’ high-speed access to the Internet, as well as the continued maintenance and development of the Internet infrastructure. The future delivery of our services will depend on third-party Internet service providers to expand high-speed Internet access, to maintain a reliable network with the necessary speed, data capacity and security, and to develop complementary products and services, including high-speed modems, for providing reliable and timely Internet access and services. The success of our business depends directly on the continued accessibility, maintenance and improvement of the Internet as a convenient means of customer interaction, as well as an efficient medium for the delivery and distribution of information among businesses and by businesses to their employees. All of these factors are out of our control. If for any reason the Internet does not remain a widespread communications medium and commercial platform, the demand for our services would be significantly reduced, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. To the extent that the Internet continues to experience increased numbers of users, frequency of use or bandwidth requirements, the Internet may become congested and be unable to support the demands placed on it, and its performance or reliability may decline. Any future Internet outages or delays could adversely affect our ability to provide services to our customers, which could adversely affect our business. We may not successfully develop or introduce new services or enhancements to our IntraLinks Platform and, as a result, we may lose existing customers or fail to attract new customers and our revenues may suffer. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenue from existing customers will depend in large part on our ability to enhance and improve our existing IntraLinks Platform and to introduce new functionality either by acquisition or internal development. Our operating results would suffer if our innovations are not responsive to the needs of our customers, are not appropriately timed with market opportunity, or are not effectively brought to market. We have in the past experienced delays in the planned release dates of new features and upgrades, and have discovered defects in new services after their introduction. There can be no assurance that new services or upgrades will be released according to schedule, or that when released they will not contain defects. Either of these situations could result in adverse publicity, loss of revenues, delay in market acceptance or claims by customers brought against us, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, upgrades and enhancements to our service offerings may require substantial investment and we have no assurance that such investments will be successful. If new innovations to our solutions do not become widely adopted by customers, we may not be able to justify the investments we have made. If we are unable to develop, license or acquire new products or enhancements to existing services on a timely and cost-effective basis, or if such new products or enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. If we fail to develop our brand cost-effectively, our business may suffer. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of the IntraLinks brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future services and is an important element in attracting new customers. Furthermore, we believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market develops. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful services at competitive prices. Brand promotion and protection will also require protection and defense of our trademarks, service marks and trade dress, which may not be adequate to protect our investment in our brand or prevent competitors’ use of similar brands. In the past, our efforts to build our brand have involved significant expense. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract enough new customers or retain our existing customers to the extent necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, and our business could suffer. 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we are unable to retain our key executives, we may not be able to implement our business strategy. We rely on the expertise and experience of our senior management, especially our President and Chief Executive Officer, Ronald W. Hovsepian, as well as the other executive officers and key employees referenced in Item 10 of this Form 10-K. Although we have employment agreements with certain of our executive officers, none of them or any of our other management personnel is obligated to continue his or her employment with us. We have no key-man insurance on any members of our management team. The loss of services of any key management personnel could make it more difficult to successfully pursue our business goals. Furthermore, recruiting and retaining qualified management personnel are critical to our growth plans. We may be unable to attract and retain such personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among technology companies for experienced management personnel. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited or disallowed by the Internal Revenue Service. As of December 31, 2011, we had net operating loss carryforwards of $61.6 million, including $8.3 million of windfall tax benefits attributable to equity compensation, to offset future taxable income, which expire in various years beginning in 2020 through 2030, if not utilized. If we were not to generate sufficient future taxable income, this would adversely affect our ability to utilize these net operating loss carryforwards. In addition, under the Internal Revenue Code, substantial changes in our ownership could limit the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that can be utilized annually in the future to offset taxable income. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes limitations on a company’s ability to use net operating loss carryforwards if a company experiences a more-than-50-percent ownership change over a three-year period. We believe that, as a result of our initial and follow-on public offerings, or as a result of prior or future issuances of our capital stock, it is possible that such a change in our ownership could be deemed to occur. If such a change in our ownership occurs, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards in any future periods may be limited on an annual basis. In addition, due to an administrative omission from certain prior year tax filings, losses generated by IntraLinks Ltd., our U.K. subsidiary, could be disallowed by the Internal Revenue Service. However, we proactively sought relief from the possible disallowance or restriction of these net operating loss carryforwards from the Internal Revenue Service. During 2011, the Internal Revenue Service commenced a review of our net operating losses arising from IntraLinks Ltd. As of December 31, 2011, this review is ongoing. In the event relief is not granted as a result of this review and administrative appeals are not successful, our ability to use certain net operating loss carryforwards may be limited and in the current year and in future years in which we have taxable income, we would have to pay more taxes than if we were able to fully utilize our net operating loss carryforwards. This occurrence could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we undertake business combinations and acquisitions, they may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management’s attention. We may support our growth through acquisitions of complementary businesses, services or technologies. Future acquisitions involve risks, such as: • challenges associated with integrating acquired technologies and operations of acquired companies; • exposure to unforeseen liabilities; • diversion of managerial resources from day-to-day operations; • possible loss of key employees, customers and suppliers; • misjudgment with respect to the value, return on investment or strategic fit of any acquired operations or assets; • higher than expected transaction costs; and • additional dilution to our existing stockholders if we use our common stock as consideration for such acquisitions. As a result of these risks, we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of any acquisition. If we are unsuccessful in completing or integrating acquisitions, we may be required to reevaluate our growth 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS strategy and we may have incurred substantial expenses and devoted significant management time and resources in seeking to complete and integrate the acquisitions. Future business combinations could involve the acquisition of significant intangible assets. We may need to record write-downs from future impairments of identified intangible assets and goodwill. These accounting charges would reduce any future reported earnings or increase a reported loss. In addition, we could use substantial portions of our available cash to pay the purchase price for acquisitions. Subject to the provisions of our existing indebtedness, it is possible that we could incur additional debt or issue additional equity securities as consideration for these acquisitions, which could cause our stockholders to suffer significant dilution. We will incur increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could harm our operating results. Since our initial public offering in August 2010, we have incurred and will continue to incur as a public company significant additional legal, accounting and other costs to which we were not subject as a private company, including expenses related to our efforts in complying with the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other public company disclosure and corporate governance requirements, responding to requests of government regulators and defending the class action and stockholder derivative lawsuits filed against us. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. We expect that these rules, regulations and proceedings may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage previously available. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as our executive officers. If we are required to collect sales and use taxes on the services we sell, we may be subject to liability for past sales and our future sales may decrease. We may lose sales or incur significant expenses should tax authorities anywhere we do business be successful in imposing sales and use taxes, value added taxes or similar taxes on the services we provide. A successful assertion by one or more tax authorities that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of our services could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales and otherwise harm our business. States and certain municipalities in the United States, as well as countries outside the United States, have different rules and regulations governing sales and use taxes and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that may change over time. Certain of these rules and regulations may be interpreted to apply to us depending on the characterization of our services. We currently do not collect sales or use tax on our services in any state in the United States other than Ohio and Texas. We have not historically charged or collected value added tax on our services anywhere in the world. It is not clear that our services are subject to sales tax in certain jurisdictions. If one or more taxing authorities determine that sales taxes should have, but have not, been paid with respect to our services, we may be liable for past taxes in addition to taxes going forward. Liability for past taxes may also include very substantial interest and penalty charges. Although our customer contracts typically provide that our customers are responsible for the payment of all taxes associated with the provision and use of our services, customers may decline to pay back taxes and may refuse responsibility for interest or penalties associated with those taxes. In certain cases, we may elect not to request customers to pay back taxes. If we are required to collect and pay back taxes and the associated interest and penalties, and if our customers fail or refuse to reimburse us for all or a portion of these amounts, or if we elect not to seek payment of these amounts, we will incur unplanned expenses that may be substantial. Moreover, imposition of such taxes on our services going forward will effectively increase the cost of such services to our customers and may adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers or to gain new customers in the areas in which such taxes are imposed. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may fluctuate significantly. The stock market, particularly in recent years, has experienced significant volatility, particularly with respect to technology stocks. The volatility of technology stocks often does not relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by the stock. Factors that could cause volatility in the market price of our common stock include: • market conditions affecting our customers’ businesses, including the level of activity in the mergers and acquisitions and syndicated loan markets; • the loss of any major customers or the acquisition of new customers for our services; • announcements of new services or functions by us or our competitors; • developments concerning intellectual property rights; • comments by securities analysts, including the publication of their estimates of our operating results; • actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • rumors relating to us or our competitors; • developments relating to lawsuits and investigations involving us; • actions of stockholders, including sales of shares by our directors and executive officers; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • developments concerning current or future strategic alliances or acquisitions. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, volatility in the market price of our stock could subject us to securities class action litigation. We are currently, and may in the future be, the subject of class action and stockholder derivative lawsuits which could require us to incur substantial costs defending such lawsuits and divert the time and attention of our management. Our principal stockholders could exercise significant control over our company. As of December 31, 2011, our two largest stockholders beneficially owned, in the aggregate, shares representing approximately 32% of our outstanding capital stock. Although we are not aware of any voting arrangements in place among these stockholders, if these stockholders were to choose to act together, as a result of their stock ownership, they would likely be able to influence our management and affairs. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and might affect the market price of our common stock. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. If our existing stockholders sell, or indicate an intent to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. As of December 31, 2011, we had 52,248,178 shares of common stock outstanding, assuming no exercise of outstanding options. A relatively small number of our shareholders own large blocks of shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that public sales of these shares will have on the market price of our common stock. In addition, shares subject to outstanding options under our equity incentive plans and shares reserved for future issuance under our equity incentive plans will become eligible for sale in the public market in the future, subject to certain legal and contractual limitations. Moreover, holders of approximately 17,266,846 shares of our common stock have the right to require us to register these shares under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, pursuant to a registration rights agreement. If our existing stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or if the public perceives that such sales could occur, this could have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock, even if there is no relationship between such sales and the performance of our business. 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS Provisions of Delaware law, our charter documents and our loan agreement could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and could make it more difficult for stockholders to change management. Provisions of Delaware law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws and our loan agreement, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions may also prevent or delay attempts by stockholders to replace or remove our current management or members of our board of directors. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • limitations on the removal of directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; • the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our amended and restated by-laws; • the authority of our board of directors to issue preferred stock with such terms as our board of directors may determine; and • provisions in our loan agreement that may accelerate payment of our debt in a change in control. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote, and not less than 75% of the outstanding shares of each class entitled to vote thereon as a class, is generally necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions that are contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. Also, absent approval of our board of directors, our amended and restated by-laws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits business combination transactions with stockholders of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock that our board of directors has not approved. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if some stockholders may consider the transaction beneficial to them. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions might also discourage a potential acquisition proposal or tender offer, even if the acquisition proposal or tender offer is at a premium over the then current market price for our common stock. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock and we do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. Consequently, any gains from an investment in our common stock will likely depend on whether the price of our common stock increases. We have not paid dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of our outstanding indebtedness restrict our ability to pay dividends, and any future indebtedness that we may incur could preclude us from paying dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Consequently, in the foreseeable future, you will likely only experience a gain from your investment in our common stock if the price of our common stock increases. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control these analysts. We have been, and may in the future be, the subject of unfavorable commentary or termination of coverage by equity analysts. The price of our common stock could decline as a result of any such negative commentary or termination of coverage. 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 