D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our operations may suffer from the effects of business uncertainties resulting from announcement of the proposed merger with an affiliate of Alibaba Group, contractual restrictions on our activities during the period in which we are subject to the Merger Agreement, and costs associated with the proposed transaction. On April 11, 2014, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger, or the Merger Agreement, pursuant to which we are to be acquired by Ali ET Investment Holding Limited, or Ali ET, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Alibaba Group, and announced the transaction on the same date. Uncertainty about the effect of the proposed merger on our employees, customers, and other parties may have an adverse effect on our business. Such uncertainty may impair our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel, including our executive leadership, and could cause customers, suppliers, financial counterparties, and others to seek to change existing business relationships with us. The Merger Agreement restricts us, without the consent of the other merger parties, from, among other things, making certain acquisitions and investments, from accessing the debt and capital markets, and from taking other specified actions until the proposed merger occurs or the merger agreement terminates. The restrictions may prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and taking other actions with respect to our business that we may consider advantageous. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs, expenses, and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the proposed merger, which may not be recoverable even if the merger is not completed. The market price for our ADSs has been volatile due to our announcement of the proposed merger and may continue to be volatile as a result of further development of the proposed merger. If the proposed merger does not close or the merger agreement is terminated for some reason, the market price for our ADSs may drop. Failure to adequately maintain and update our digital map database and minimize errors in our navigation and location-based solutions could harm our reputation and subject us to liability claims, which could result in loss of customers, decreased revenues and unexpected expenses. Our digital map database requires constant maintenance and updating, which is a complex process and subject to error. We also rely on third parties to provide certain data for our digital map database such as some of the point-of-interest data and real time traffic information. There is no assurance that our controls and procedures for maintaining and updating our digital map database will be adequate to keep pace with the rapidly changing road systems in China. We have in the past received feedback from customers and end-users identifying errors in our digital map data. If there are errors in our solutions due to actual or perceived database deficiencies, our reputation could be harmed and our customers may cease to buy our solutions. Moreover, we could be subject to liability claims and the associated adverse publicity. Claims could be made by our customers if errors in our solutions result in the failure of their products or services, or by end-users of those products or services or others alleging loss or harm as a result of actual or perceived errors in our digital map data. Some of our license agreements include disclaimers, limitations of liability and similar provisions, which, however, may not be effective barriers to potential claims. Any associated adverse publicity may reduce our customers’ willingness to incorporate our map data and related applications into their products, which would adversely affect our revenues. Liability claims present a risk of protracted litigation, substantial monetary damages, attorneys’ fees, costs and expenses, and diversion of management’s attention from the operation of our business. In some circumstances, we are contractually obligated to indemnify our customers for liabilities, costs and expenses arising out of liability claims. We may incur additional costs and expenses providing indemnification or contesting our customers’ indemnification claims. In addition, we may also have to recall our digital map data or offer to provide replacement, either involuntarily by mandate of our customers or a regulatory agency, or voluntarily in order to preserve our reputation and maintain good customer relations. Recalls or replacements can be costly and divert management’s attention from the operation of our business. The markets for products and services of our customers incorporating our map data and solutions are evolving and their future growth is uncertain. If these markets fail to grow or even decline, or if we fail to adapt to the rapid changes in these markets, our results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected. The markets for products and services of our customers incorporating our digital map data and solutions are evolving and are characterized by continuing advances in technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product and service introductions and changes in the marketing and delivery of digital-map dependent products and services. Our success depends in part upon our customers’ abilities to successfully market and sell their products and services that incorporate our map data and solutions. If our customers cannot maintain market share for their existing products and services incorporating our map data and solutions or do not continue to successfully develop and market new products and services incorporating our map data and solutions, or if the products and services that our customers develop and market do not meet their consumers’ expectations or are not accepted by the market at all, our results of operations and growth prospects may be adversely affected because we may lose existing customers and have difficulty finding new customers, markets and applications for our map data and solutions. Moreover, if we fail to identify new opportunities in the navigation and location-based services markets, introduce new map data and solution features in a timely manner, keep abreast of our customers’ innovations or adapt our solutions to changing industry standards or customer requirements, we could lose our existing customers and be unable to attract new businesses, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We had a net loss in 2013 and may incur further losses in the future. We had a net loss of $25.4 million attributable to our shareholders in 2013, compared to net incomes of $36.5 million and $36.5 million attributable to our shareholders in 2011 and 2012, respectively. As we offer our mobile navigation application to both smartphone and tablet computer manufacturers and users for free since August 2013 to increase our market share, and continue to incur significant cost of revenues and operating expenses to grow our business, we expect that we may incur further losses in the near future. In addition, our ability to achieve profitability is affected by various factors that are beyond our control. For example, as we introduce new navigation and location-based solutions or enter into new markets, we may face unfamiliar market and technological and operational risks and challenges. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will not incur net losses in the future. 5 Table of Contents We historically have derived a majority of our revenues from our automotive navigation business, which may be affected by fluctuations in the automotive market and the average selling prices of our solutions. We derived 67.6%, 57.7% and 51.3% of our net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively, from licensing map data for use in in-dash navigation systems installed on automobiles and customized aftermarket navigation solutions. Any significant downturn in the overall demand for automobiles could adversely affect the demand for both in-dash navigation systems and aftermarket navigation solutions, which in turn would materially decrease our revenues. Although China’s automotive market has grown in recent years, it is uncertain whether the number of automobiles to be manufactured will grow at a similar rate in the future. It is also uncertain that the percentage of new automobiles equipped with in-dash navigation systems or the demand for aftermarket navigation solutions will increase in the future. In addition, the average selling prices for our solutions may decline for a variety of reasons, including competitive pricing pressures, discounts we offer, phase-out of supports from navigation system or device manufacturers, and introduction of new business models. The average selling prices for our map data licensed for use in in-dash navigation systems and our customized aftermarket navigation solutions have in the past decreased, and may continue to decrease in the future. Our financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset any future reductions in the average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing our per unit costs, or developing new or enhanced solutions on a timely basis with higher sales prices. To the extent that our future revenues substantially depend on sales of in-dash navigation systems installed on automobiles and aftermarket navigation solutions, our business would be vulnerable to any downturns in China’s automotive market and the average selling prices of our solutions. We have limited experience in the mobile and internet location-based services markets, and may not be able to successfully address the challenges we face in these markets. We entered the mobile and internet location-based services markets in 2006. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, revenues from our mobile and internet location-based solutions business accounted for 21.6%, 29.8% and 37.0%, respectively, of our total net revenues. As we devote more resources in growing our business in the mobile and internet location-based services markets, we face some new challenges that are different from the ones we face in the automotive navigation market, including: adopting alternative revenue models and pricing structures; serving a larger number of small customers; and interacting with end-users directly. We also face intense competition from large internet companies in providing mobile and internet location-based services, a number of which companies may have more experience and resources than us in this market. If we are unable to effectively respond to these challenges and expand our business in the mobile and internet location-based services markets, our growth and prospects could be negatively affected. We have made and will continue to make investments in developing new solutions for customers in the mobile and internet location-based services markets. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenues in these markets to recoup our investments, our future results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our limited experience in these markets may not provide a meaningful basis for you to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. If we fail to maintain our relationships with major mobile operators, our mobile location-based solutions business and growth prospects could be adversely affected. Our cooperation arrangements with China Mobile and China Telecom are an important part of our mobile location-based solutions business. Our contractual relationship with China Mobile is maintained through China Mobile Liaoning, the China Mobile subsidiary in charge of constructing and operating a location-based service platform for China Mobile’s nationwide network. Since 2006, we have been providing a nationwide digital map database to support mobile location-based services throughout China Mobile’s nationwide network. In November 2009, China Mobile engaged us to jointly develop and operate a new mobile navigation service, which was launched in 8 provinces and tier one cities in January 2011, and is currently available across mainland China. We expect to continue relying on China Mobile for the growth of our mobile location-based solutions business in the near future. Our agreement with China Mobile Liaoning regarding the nationwide digital map database will expire at the end of 2014. Our agreement with China Mobile Liaoning regarding the mobile navigation service expired at the end of 2013. We are communicating with the China Mobile to renew this agreement, while we continue to provide data and services to China Mobile under it. 6 Table of Contents We are also cooperating with China Telecom to provide end-users with a business platform software, which will integrate China Telecom’s map data with its point of interest data and ultimately support its location-based mobile navigation business platform, called “E Surfing,” across China Telecom’s nationwide network. Our cooperation with China Telecom in relation to the “E Surfing” service is through Beijing PDAger Technology Development Co., Ltd., also known as Beijing Xiejin Technology Development Co., Ltd., or PDAger. The cooperation agreement will expire in June 2014. There is no guarantee that China Mobile or China Telecom will not decide to terminate the current cooperation relationship or insist on new agreements with substantially different commercial terms that are unfavorable to us. Our negotiating leverage with China Mobile or China Telecom is limited given its dominant position in China’s mobile communications market. If China Mobile or China Telecom for any reason decides to terminate the current co-operation relationship, or if it proposes new agreements with commercial terms materially different from the current ones, e.g., by changing the revenue sharing arrangement with us, our mobile location-based solutions business and growth prospects could be adversely affected. Our ability to generate revenues from our mobile location-based solutions business could suffer if China Mobile or China Telecom’s location-based services do not generate sufficient revenues. In providing a nationwide digital map database to support mobile location-based services throughout China Mobile’s nationwide network, we share a portion of the fees charged by China Mobile for certain aspects of the business, and receive from China Mobile fees based on the level of usage of our map data by China Mobile’s subscribers for other aspects of the business, subject to a monthly cap. For the mobile navigation service jointly developed by China Mobile and us, we shared a portion of the fees charged by China Mobile before 2013, received payments in the form of a fixed fee in 2013 and we expect to continue to receive payments in the form of a fixed fee in 2014. For the mobile navigation service jointly developed by China Telecom and us, we share a portion of the fees charged by China Telecom. Therefore, our ability to generate revenues from our mobile location-based solutions business is affected by the future success of the location-based services offered by China Mobile and China Telecom. The future success of China Mobile or China Telecom’s location-based services will depend on, among other things, the quality of its mobile network, the resources it commits to promoting and operating its location-based services and its ability to effectively manage its subscribers’ expectations. We, however, have no control over any of those factors. If the formal launch of some location-based services by China Mobile or China Telecom is delayed, or China Mobile or China Telecom does not allocate sufficient resources to promoting and operating its location-based services, or if China Mobile or China Telecom’s location-based services are not well received by users, those services may not generate sufficient usage and revenues. As a result, revenues from our mobile location-based solutions business may be adversely affected. Our results of operations and cash flows may fluctuate due to the project-based nature of our public sector and enterprise applications business. We generated 9.7%, 11.1% and 10.4% of our net revenues from our public sector and enterprise applications business for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. Historically, revenues from our public sector and enterprise applications business have typically been generated on a project basis. For instance, we provided aerial digital maps of two entire provinces and parts of three other provinces in connection with China’s second national land survey from 2007 to 2009, certain provinces in 2010, and other government related projects in 2011, as well as certain provinces and some government-related projects in 2012. In 2013, we also provided digital maps or location-based services for some government-related projects, such as the 3rdnational economic survey sponsored by State Statistics Agency. Revenues from this and other similar projects may fluctuate significantly from period to period, which makes it difficult for us to forecast revenues and cash flow and could adversely affect our working capital levels. The resulting period-to-period fluctuation in our results of operations could also cause the price of our ADSs to fluctuate or decline. 7 Table of Contents A significant portion of our revenues historically have been attributable to a limited number of automobile manufacturers, and if we are unable to maintain these key relationships or establish new relationships with additional automobile manufacturers, our revenues will be adversely affected. In the in-dash navigation systems market, automobile manufacturers generally have the power to select map data suppliers, regardless of whether the selected map data supplier enters into contract directly with the automobile manufacturer or not. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, revenues from our top five automobile manufacturer customers in each period accounted for approximately 63.3%, 54.1% and 48.7%, respectively, of our total revenues. We anticipate that a limited number of automobile manufacturers will continue to represent a significant percentage of our revenues for the foreseeable future. However, there is no assurance that our relationships with our existing automobile manufacturer customers will continue in the future, and we are not guaranteed any minimum level of revenues from them. We cannot assure you that revenues from our current customers will reach or exceed historical levels in any future period. The loss of one or more of our key automobile manufacturer customers, whether due to a change of control or bankruptcy of a customer or other causes, a reduction in orders from them, difficulty or failure to collect payments from any key customer under financial distress, or our failure to attract additional key customers, would adversely affect our revenues. In addition, our license agreements with automobile manufacturers typically cover specific car models for a defined period of time. If our major automotive navigation customers do not renew their agreements with us for all or some of their new car models after the existing license agreements expire, revenues from our automotive navigation business may be adversely affected. Our results of operations could suffer if we are not able to maintain the license fees we charge for the use of our map data and solutions in in-dash navigation systems and aftermarket navigation solutions. We historically derived a substantial portion of our revenues from license fees we charge for the use of our map data in in-dash navigation systems and aftermarket navigation solutions including dealer option navigation systems and portable navigation devices. The license fees we charge our customers are affected by a number of factors, including the competitive landscape, pricing of vehicles and hardware that use our map data and price sensitivity of end-users of navigation products and services. Any one or a combination of these factors could require us to reduce our license fees and this could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We have in the past lowered, and may in the future need to lower, our license fees in order to preserve customer relationships or to expand the use of our map data and solutions to a broader range of products. To the extent we lower our license fees in the future, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve related increases in the use of our map data and solutions or other benefits to fully offset the effects of these reductions. If we are unable to achieve related increases in the use of our map data and solutions to fully offset the effects of reductions in per-unit license fees, our revenues could suffer. Digital map data piracy exists in China, and our inability to adequately protect against the illegal copying and selling of our digital map data could adversely affect our revenues. Like many other software products, digital map data is vulnerable to piracy. While China has made progress to address the problem of piracy of intellectual property, the current legal system for intellectual property protection is still not well developed. Piracy of digital map data exists in China and is widespread in the portable navigation device market, where the map data formats used by different portable navigation device manufacturers are similar, making it easier to use pirated digital map data. Although we have taken a number of security measures to prevent piracy, and each copy of digital map data sold by us has been encrypted in accordance with the applicable government regulations, our digital map data has been illegally copied and sold through various channels because those security measures are not always effective against unlawful copying. We have not taken any legal actions against those who have pirated our map data. Preventing piracy is difficult, time-consuming and expensive, and may divert significant management and staff resources from our business operations. Continued unauthorized copying and piracy of our map data not only could adversely affect our revenues, but may also harm our reputation if the unauthorized copy is incomplete, out of date, or of substandard quality. In addition, large scale piracy of our digital map data could significantly impede our ability to recoup the substantial investments we have made in building and maintaining our digital map database. 8 Table of Contents If we are unable to achieve and maintain certain required quality assurance standards, our key customers may not do business with us. Many of our customers, particularly those in the automotive industry, require their suppliers to maintain certain quality assurance standards and certifications, including those pursuant to the ISO series of international standards. We have obtained some of these certifications. For instance, we were granted the ISO 9001:2008 certificate for our quality management system for design, production and service of navigation map and relevant support systems in July 2009, which was renewed in July 2012 and is valid until June 2015. We were granted the ISO/TS 16949:2009 certificate for our automotive navigation map design and production operations in July 2009, which was renewed in June 2012 and is valid until June 2015. The ISO/TS 16949 standard applies to the design/development, production and, when relevant, installation and servicing of automotive-related products and is an important independent indicator of quality process management. In addition, we have the ISO14001:2004 certificate for our design, production service and sale of navigation map and relevant support systems, which is valid between March 2013 and March 2016. We were rated as the Automotive SPICE (Automotive Software Process Improvement and Capability Determination) Capability Level 3 in October 2012, and the CMMI (Capability Maturity Model Integration) Level 3 in December 2007. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to meet these standards on an on-going basis in the future. Our customers may later require us to obtain and maintain certifications under different or more stringent standards, which we may or may not be able to accomplish. If we are unable to obtain and maintain such certifications, those customers may refuse to do business with us, which could materially reduce our revenues and adversely affect our reputation. A substantial portion of our cost of revenues is not directly linked to the level of our revenues. As a result, any shortfall in revenues could adversely affect our gross profit. The majority of our cost of revenues is related to data collection and processing, which serve as the foundation for all aspects of our business. As a result, our cost of revenues is not directly linked to the level of our revenues. In addition, as we pursue the expansion of our business in the mobile and internet location-based solutions segment, our cost levels are based, in part, on our expectation of future revenues from that market segment. However, we may not be able to achieve the growth of revenues as we anticipated. Any shortfall in revenues relative to our expectations in any given period would not necessarily result in a proportionate reduction in our costs, and could therefore have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. Our growth will depend in part on adding new solutions to our portfolio or adapting our business models in response to rapid changes in our industry, which can require significant expenditures in advance of revenues. We face constant pressure to provide our customers and end-users with new solutions that incorporate the latest technology. We must make significant expenditures to research and develop new navigation and location-based solutions before we can generate any revenues from those new solutions. We may also be required to make unanticipated expenditures, for instance, to acquire key technologies to support or expand our solutions and replace outdated or failing equipment. In addition, we may need to change our business models from time to time in response to the rapid changes in China’s navigation and location-based services industry. The new business models may require substantial upfront capital expenditures. If our new solutions are not received favorably by our customers or the end-users, or the new business models adopted by us do not work as well as we had expected, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to recoup the significant upfront expenditures, and our results of operations and financial position would be adversely affected. User growth and activity on mobile devices depend upon effective use of mobile operating systems, networks and standards that we do not control. Accessing digital map content and navigation and location-based solutions on mobile devices by users generally, and by our users specifically, has increased significantly, and we expect this trend to continue. To optimize mobile user experience, we are somewhat dependent on our user downloading our specific mobile applications for their particular device as opposed to accessing our sites from an internet browser on their mobile device. As new mobile devices and platforms are released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in developing applications for these alternative devices and platforms, and we may need to devote significant resources to the development, support and maintenance of such applications. In addition, our future growth and our results of operations could suffer if we experience difficulties in the future in integrating our mobile applications into mobile devices or if problems arise with our relationships with providers of mobile operating systems or mobile application download stores, if our applications receive unfavorable treatment compared to competing applications on the download stores, or if we face increased costs to distribute or have users use our mobile applications. We are further dependent on the interoperability of our applications with popular mobile operating systems that we do not control, such as iOS and Android, and any changes in such systems that degrade the functionality of our applications or give preferential treatment to competitive products could adversely affect the usage of our applications on mobile devices. In the event that it is more difficult for our users to access and use our applications on their mobile devices, or if our users choose not to access or to use our applications on their mobile devices or to use mobile products that do not offer access to our applications, our user growth could be harmed and our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents The surveying and mapping business is highly regulated in China. If we fail to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations, our surveying and mapping qualification certificates could be suspended or revoked, which would materially impede our business. Due to national security concerns, the surveying and mapping business is highly regulated in China and is subject to a complex set of laws, rules and regulations administered primarily by the National Administration of Surveying, Mapping and Geoinformation (formerly known as the State Bureau of Surveying and Mapping), or the NASMG. Only entities that have been granted a surveying and mapping qualification certificate for digital navigation map production by the NASMG are permitted to engage in data collection, editing, processing, formatting, geographic information integration and other digital map production activities. In addition, the servers on which the map data are stored must be kept inside China with public internet protocol addresses provided. AutoNavi Software, our variable interest entity in China, holds a Class A surveying and mapping qualification certificate for digital navigation map production and related activities and internet map service, valid until December 31, 2014. Beijing MapABC Technology Co., Ltd., or MapABC Technology, and PDAger have obtained a Class A surveying qualification certificate for internet map service, valid until December 31, 2014. Beijing Xingtiandi Information Technology Co., Ltd., or Xingtiandi Technology, a subsidiary of AutoNavi Software, holds a Class A surveying and mapping qualification certificate for aerial photogrammetry and a Class B surveying and mapping qualification for photogrammetry and remote sensing and related activities, valid until December 31, 2014. We cannot assure you that AutoNavi Software, MapABC Technology, Xingtiandi Technology and PDAger will always be in compliance with the various laws, rules and regulations governing the surveying and mapping business. If any of them is found to be in violation of any of these laws, rules and regulations, we could face severe penalties, including postponement or denial of annual registration, downgrading of professional qualification, and suspension or even revocation of the surveying and mapping qualification certificates. Any of these penalties could materially impede our ability to create, improve, license or distribute solutions incorporating digital map data, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on a third-party holder of a publishing license for electronic publication of our digital map data. If we are unable to continue the use of this license, our business could be adversely affected. Under the relevant PRC laws and regulations, our digital map data are deemed electronic publications, which can only be published by a publishing entity with a publishing license for electronic publications granted by the General Administration of Press and Publications, which was merged with the State Administration of Radio Film and Television and renamed as the General Administration of Press and Publication, Radio, Film and Television, or the GAPPRFT, in March 2013. Since we do not have such a license, we have entered into an agreement with SinoMaps Press, a publishing entity that holds a publishing license for electronic publications. Under the agreement, SinoMaps Press is responsible for reviewing, seeking approval for and publishing the digital maps we produce and deliver to them. For each electronic publication and its updated version, SinoMaps Press must submit the sample map and other required information to the NASMG and the GAPPRFT for approval. Our agreement with SinoMaps Press is effective until November 2014. We cannot assure you that SinoMaps Press will agree to renew this agreement upon the expiration of the current term. If we fail to renew the agreement with SinoMaps Press or enter into a replacement contract with another holder of a publishing license for electronic publications, our business could be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents We depend on in-dash navigation system manufacturers to distribute our digital map data to automobile manufacturers, and any delays or errors in the distribution of our map data to automobile manufacturers could adversely affect our business. In the in-dash navigation systems market, it is critical that we maintain a good reputation among automobile manufacturers, whether we have entered into contracts with them directly or through in-dash navigation system manufacturers. We usually convert our digital map data into different proprietary formats of the in-dash navigation system manufacturers and send DVD copies or hard disk drives of the converted map data to these companies. These companies then distribute the DVDs or hard disk drives along with their own products to the automobile manufacturers. To the extent we continue to rely on in-dash navigation system manufacturers to distribute our map data, their failure to distribute our map data in a timely manner or meet the requirements of automobile manufacturers may harm our reputation and relationships with our automobile manufacturer customers. If our customers do not accurately report the amount of fees owed to us under our agreements with them, we will not receive all of the revenues to which we are entitled. For a portion of our sales to the mobile and internet location-based solutions business, we rely on our customers to accurately report the amount of fees owed to us under our agreements with them. We could audit our customers’ records to verify this information. However, these audits can be expensive, time-consuming and possibly harmful to our ongoing business relationships with our customers. We have relied primarily on the data in our customers’ reports which we may challenge if we have doubt on them. However, we have not audited any customer to date. To the extent those reports are inaccurate, the revenues we collect from our customers could be materially less than the amount we would be entitled to from them. In addition, even if we conduct audits, there can be no assurance that any additional fees determined to be payable to us in such audits would be recoverable or that, if recoverable, such additional fees would be sufficient to cover our audit expenses. We may not be able to effectively identify or pursue targets for acquisitions or investments, and even if we complete such transactions, we may be unable to successfully integrate them into, or realize anticipated benefits to, our business, which may adversely affect our growth and results of operations. Historically, we have acquired new capabilities and additional customers through selected acquisitions. For example, we gained internet-based map application capabilities in 2006 by acquiring control of MapABC Technology, one of our variable interest entities in China, a leading online map application solution provider in China. In 2006, we added aerial photogrammetry to our portfolio of solutions by acquiring Xingtiandi Technology, which holds a Class A surveying and mapping qualification certificate for aerial photogrammetry issued by the NASMG. In March 2011, we acquired all the equity interests in Shanghai eTag Information Technologies Limited, or eTag, in Shanghai and certain technologies and intellectual properties of eTag Information Services Co., Ltd., a software developer specializing in mobile location-based application software utilized in personal navigation systems; in the same month, we acquired the remaining 80% equity interest in PDAger, a mobile location-based service provider in China and major partner in China Telecom’s mobile navigation business, which had been 20% owned by us. In January 2012, we acquired 20% equity interests in Ariadne’s Thread Co., Ltd., a company engaged in e-commerce of movie tickets through its proprietary mobile applications. In December 2013, we acquired all the equity interests in Alohar Mobile Inc., a company headquartered in California focusing on mobile location-based technologies. We expect to continue to selectively acquire or invest in businesses that complement our existing business. We may not, however, be able to identify suitable candidates for acquisitions or investments in the future. Even if we are able to identify suitable candidates, we may be unable to complete a transaction on terms commercially acceptable to us. If we fail to identify appropriate candidates or complete the desired transactions, our growth may be impeded. Even if we complete the desired acquisitions or investments, such acquisitions and investments may expose us to new operational, regulatory, market and geographic risks and challenges, including: · diversion of our management’s attention and other resources from our existing business; · our inability to maintain the key business relationships and the reputations of the businesses we acquire or invest in; 11 Table of Contents · our inability to retain key personnel of the acquired or invested company; · uncertainty of entry into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience and in which competitors have stronger market positions; · failure to comply with laws and regulations as well as industry or technical standards of the markets into which we expand; · our dependence on unfamiliar affiliates and partners of the companies we acquire or invest in; · unsatisfactory performance of the businesses we acquire or invest in; · our responsibility for the liabilities associated with the businesses we acquire, including those which we may not anticipate; and · our inability to maintain internal standards, controls, procedures and policies. Any of these events could disrupt our ability to manage our business. These risks could also result in our failure to derive the intended benefits of the acquisitions or investments, and we may be unable to recover our investment in such initiatives or may have to recognize impairment charges as a result. We face significant competition in the navigation and location-based services industry, and if we are unable to compete effectively with our existing and potential competitors, we could lose market share and our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. The markets for navigation and location-based solutions in China are highly competitive. We compete for customers and business with other solution providers on the basis of, among other things, the coverage and accuracy of map data, the amount and accuracy of point of interest information, the frequency of database update, variety of presentation features, the ability to provide customized solutions to meet customers’ specific needs, price and variety and quality of solutions offered. We face competition in each line of navigation and location-based solutions that we offer. · In the in-dash navigation systems market, our primary competitor is NavInfo Co., Ltd. NavInfo has formed a joint venture with NAVTEQ Corporation, a subsidiary of Nokia Corporation and one of the two major international digital map providers. The global reach of NAVTEQ Corporation, its pre-existing relationships with some of our key customers, its greater financial resources and its affiliation with large navigation hardware manufacturers may help our competitor expand its businesses. The portable navigation devices market for digital map solutions is highly competitive with multiple map data providers and, as a result, price competition is intense in that market. · In mobile and internet location-based service platform, we do not have any single competitor that competes with us in all areas. Rather, we compete with different competitors in different areas. In pre-installed and downloadable navigation solutions for mobile devices, we face competition primarily from companies that offer similar solutions. The competition is primarily based on product design, marketing and promotions. In mobile and internet-based map application solutions, we compete primarily with some big internet companies. The competition is primarily based on access to quality map data, richness of the content, ease of use, stability of solutions and technical support, targeted and useful location-based information, and marketing and promotions. · Competition in public sector and enterprise applications is primarily based on technology capability, service capacity, customer relations, price and ability to provide integrated solutions consisting of both map data and software applications. In addition, as technology and the regulatory environment in China evolve, new entrants may enter the business of developing digital maps. If China’s regulatory regime for digital map production changes in the future to allow foreign companies to develop digital maps on their own, demand for our map data and solutions could be adversely affected. Increased competition from our current competitors or new market entrants may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins and/or loss of market share by us. 12 Table of Contents We may not be able to sustain or improve the strength of our brand, and we may consequently experience difficulties in improving market acceptance. We intend to maintain a clear and consistent brand across all of our solutions and in all of our markets. Maintaining and strengthening our brand will depend on our success in providing high-quality solutions that are favorably received by our customers and end-users. The strength of our brand also depends in part on our being a technology leader in providing navigation and location-based solutions, and it is uncertain that our research and development efforts will continue to succeed in this regard. In addition, the strength of our brand depends in part on the products and services of third parties whose products incorporate our map data and over which we have little or no control. Defects, errors or failures in third-party products and services could damage our reputation or our brand. Any negative publicity of our map database or solutions, or otherwise about our company, may have a negative impact on our reputation or brand. If we fail to increase awareness of our brand and strengthen our reputation for providing high-quality solutions, or if any other factor negatively affects our reputation or our brand image, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property, which could reduce demand for our solutions, adversely affect our revenues and harm our competitive position. We rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, software registration, trade secret, trademark and unfair competition laws and contractual rights to establish and protect our intellectual property rights for our database, software and related technologies. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken or will take in the future to protect our intellectual property from infringement, misappropriation or piracy will prove to be sufficient. Implementation of intellectual property-related laws in China has historically been lacking, primarily due to ambiguity in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protection in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other developed countries. Current or potential competitors may use our intellectual property without our authorization in the development of databases, software or technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours, which could reduce demand for our solutions, adversely affect our revenues and harm our competitive position. Even if we were to discover evidence of infringement or misappropriation, our recourse against such competitors may be limited or could require us to pursue litigation, which could involve substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention from the operation of our business. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information. We require our employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements in order to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These agreements might not effectively prevent disclosure of our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information and might not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of such confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend and may result in the loss of significant rights by us. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in digital map-related industries in China are evolving and uncertain. Many industry participants actively seek protection for digital map-related technologies, including through copyright or patent registration and litigation. Copyrights or patents issued or pending that are held by others may cover significant aspects of our technologies, solutions or business methods. In addition, our database includes content from third parties such as certain point-of-interest and real time traffic information provided by our business partners and we also use certain third-party software. We have procedures designed to reduce the likelihood that such content or third-party software might be used without proper licenses or third-party consents. However, these procedures may not be effective in preventing the unauthorized posting of copyrighted content or other IP infringement. Although we have not been subject to any material litigation, pending or threatened, alleging infringement of third parties’ intellectual property rights, we cannot assure you that such infringement claims will not be asserted against us in the future. 13 Table of Contents Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert resources and management attention from the operation of our business. If there is a successful claim of infringement, we may be required to alter our technologies, cease certain activities, pay substantial royalties and damages to, and obtain one or more licenses from, third parties. We may not be able to obtain those licenses on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. Any of those consequences could cause us to lose revenues, impair our customer relationships and harm our reputation. Our future success depends on the continuing efforts to retain our existing management team and other key employees as well as to attract, integrate and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel, and our business may be adversely affected if we lose their services or if their outside business interests create conflicts or give rise to negative publicity. Our future success depends heavily on the continued services of our current executive officers, particularly Congwu Cheng, our chief executive officer. We also rely on the skills, experience and efforts of other employees, including management, sales, support, research and development, technical and services personnel. Qualified employees are in high demand throughout technology-based industries in China, and our future success depends on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled employees and the ability of our executive officers and other members of senior management to work effectively as a team. If one or more of our executive officers or other key employees is unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to find suitable replacements easily or at all, which may disrupt our business operations. We do not have key person insurance in place. If any of our executive officers or other key employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers, know-how, key professionals and staff members. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains confidentiality and non-competition provisions. However, if any dispute arises between our executive officers and us, we cannot assure you of the extent to which any of these agreements could be enforced in China, where these executive officers reside, because of the uncertainties of China’s legal system. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of Chinese laws and regulations could limit the legal protections available to you and us.” In addition, some of our executive officers may have other business dealings or activities outside their employment with us that are relating to digital map information, navigation and location-based solutions and similar businesses, as well as businesses outside of our industry. Conflicts of interest may arise between their outside business interests and our company. We do not believe any of our executive officers currently has a conflict of interest with us. In the event that a conflict of interest occurs in the future, we expect our executive officers to abide by our code of business conduct and ethics and their obligations under their respective employment agreements. If any of them does not abide by the above, we intend to resort to appropriate remedies to address the situation. However, we cannot assure you that conflicts of interests, if any, will always be resolved in our favor. In addition, if any of the business associates or entities in which our executive officers are involved makes any claims or initiates litigation against them or against us, we may also be subject to costly legal proceedings and claims. Our directors and senior management could also be subject to scrutiny by the media and the public, which may result in press coverage of unverified, inaccurate or misleading information about them. Negative publicity about our directors or senior management, even if untrue or inaccurate, may have an adverse impact on our reputation and the trading price of our ADSs. Security breaches, computer viruses, “denial of service” and computer hacking attacks could harm our business and results of operations. As we further tap into the mobile and internet location-based services markets and move from a pure B2B business model to a combined B2B and B2C business model, we are subject to an increasing risk of security breaches, computer viruses, interruptions of access through the use of “denial of service” attacks, computer hacking or similar attacks. Although we have not experienced security breach in the past, such attacks may occur to our map database and cloud service platform in the future. Any security breach caused by hacking or other attacks, which involve efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems, or to cause intentional malfunctions, loss, corruption or unavailability of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, and the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could harm our business and results of operations. Because of our prominence in the navigation and location-based services industry, we may become an attractive target for such attacks. Any loss or tampering of our map data or any failure to maintain availability, performance, reliability and security of our network infrastructure or navigation and location-based services to the satisfaction of our customers may harm our reputation and our ability to retain existing customers and attract new ones. 14 Table of Contents Our operations rely on our technology, telecommunications and other infrastructure systems, which can suffer business interruptions and system failure and incompatibility that could increase our operating costs, cause delays in our operations and limit the growth of our business. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, earthquake, flood, power loss, computer hardware and software failure, telecommunications failure, computer hacking and similar events. Our disaster recovery plans and redundant systems may not be sufficient to cure such system failures in a timely manner. We keep our production facility and the servers that store our digital map database and run our technology platforms at our offices in the Changping Hi-tech Park, Beijing. The occurrence of a natural disaster or unanticipated problems with our technology, telecommunications and other infrastructure systems could cause interruptions or delays in the ongoing development and enhancement of our digital map database and related software, and inhibit our ability to timely deliver our solutions to our customers, which in turn could cause us to lose customers or revenues. Similarly, system failures and operational interruptions of our customers could also adversely affect our own revenues. Our technology, telecommunications and other infrastructure systems may also be subject to capacity constraints which would cause increased operating costs in order to overcome these constraints. In addition, our mobile and internet location-based service platform may not be compatible with the information technology systems of our business partners, enterprise customers or third-party application developers, which would limit the growth of our business. We have limited insurance coverage. Insurance companies in China currently do not offer as extensive an array of insurance products as insurance companies in more developed economies do. We have purchased automobile insurance on certain vehicles, property and casualty insurance on some of our assets and group accident insurance for our field survey employees. We have also purchased third-party liability insurance to cover product liability, product-completed operations liability and premises liability. In addition, we have purchased medical insurance for our foreign employees. Other than these, we do not have commercial insurance coverage on our digital map database, other assets and personnel, nor do we have insurance to cover our business or interruptions of our business. We have determined that the costs of insuring for these risks and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. Any uninsured occurrence of loss or damage to property, litigation or business disruption may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are not able to effectively manage risks associated with our potential expansion into international markets, out results of operations or profitability could be adversely affected. We may expand our business into international markets in the future. In our international expansion, we may face economic, regulatory, legal and political risks inherent in having relationships, operations and sales in other jurisdictions, including challenges caused by distance and linguistic and cultural differences, the potential for longer collection periods and for difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and enforcing contractual obligations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, unanticipated changes in laws or regulatory requirements, including tariffs or other barriers to trade, and the potential for political, legal and economic instability. Any of these or other factors could have an adverse effect on our sales or costs, on the market acceptance of our solutions or on our ability to compete in one or more jurisdictions, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Expansion into international markets may place significant additional burdens on our senior management and our sales and marketing teams. We also may not be able to process and make available to our customers navigation and location-based solutions for a new geographic market in a timely or commercially favorable manner, in the native language or without substantial errors. Moreover, our ability to expand successfully depends in part on our establishing sufficient operational resources and infrastructure. Our sales and marketing efforts in a new geographic market may fail to establish a viable distribution network or our solutions may not gain market acceptance or brand recognition sufficient to offset the costs of geographic expansion. If we fail to properly manage these risks, we may incur higher expenses and lower revenues, and any geographic expansion we undertake could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. End-user privacy concerns may limit the growth of our solutions. Concerns have been raised with respect to the possibility that GPS-based navigation products could be used to violate personal privacy by making available a record of a person’s geographical location to others. While we pay high attention to user privacy control, the technological potential of our current or future solutions and applications may create privacy concerns in the general public. If these or other problems with public opinion arise in connection with our solutions and applications or the navigation and located-based services industry in general, our reputation, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if new laws or regulations are passed relating to privacy concerns, our business operations may be adversely affected. In December 2012, the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress of the PRC issued the Decision on Strengthening the Protection of Online Information. Subsequently, on July 16, 2013, Ministry of Industry and Information Technology released Provisions on Protecting the Personal Information of the Telecommunications and Internet Users to stipulate detailed rules to implement the Decision on Strengthening the Protection of Online Information. Pursuant to the above rules, if an ICP operator wishes to collect or use personal electronic information, it must do so in a lawful and appropriate manner, and may do so only if it is necessary for the services it provides. It must disclose the purpose, method and scope of any such collection or use, and must seek consent from the relevant individuals. ICP operators are also required to publish their policies relating to information collection and use, must keep such information strictly confidential, and must take technological and other measures to ensure the safety of such information. ICP operators are further prohibited from disclosing, distorting or destroying any such personal electronic information, or selling or proving such information to other parties and are required to report to the administration authority immediately if users’ information is divulged, destructed or lost and serious consequence may be caused. We are an ICP operator due to our operation of several websites and therefore be subject to the decision. Moreover, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology released a notice to strengthen the administration on mobile applications in April 2013, which, among others, prohibits pre-installation on smartphones mobile applications that collect or alter users’ personal information without user consent or those facilitate others in violating users’ privacy, network and communication rights and safety. This notice has been implemented since November 1, 2013. We provide pre-installed and downloadable navigation solutions for mobile devices and therefore are subject to the notice. However, the effect of these new laws and regulations still remain to be seen. We depend on our dedicated and capable employees, and if we are not able to continue to hire, train and retain qualified employees or if labor costs increase, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our continued success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our business operations, including data collection and procession and research and development employees. We cannot assure you that we would be able to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our business. Any material increase in employee turnover rates and any failure to recruit skilled personnel and to retain key staff due to factors such as failure to keep up with market average employee salary levels may make our growth strategy difficult to implement. Any increased labor costs due to factors like competition, increased wage requirements and employee benefits would adversely impact our operating costs. Any of the above would materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by any global or Chinese economic downturn. The global financial markets experienced significant disruptions in 2008 and the United States, Europe and other economies went into recession. The recovery from the lows of 2008 and 2009 was uneven and is facing new challenges, including the escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis since 2011 and the slowdown of the Chinese economy in 2012. It is unclear whether the European sovereign debt crisis will be contained and whether the Chinese economy will resume its high growth rate. There is considerable uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies that have been adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world’s leading economies, including China. There have also been concerns over unrest in the Middle East and Africa, which have resulted in volatility in oil and other markets, and over the possibility of a war involving Iran. There have also been concerns about the territorial disputes involving China in Asia and the economic effects. Economic conditions in China are sensitive to global economic conditions, as well as changes in domestic economic and political policies and the expected or perceived overall economic growth rate in China. Any prolonged slowdown in the global or Chinese economy may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and continued turbulence in the international markets may adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. Since we derive substantially all of our revenues from our navigation and location-based solutions in China, any prolonged slowdown in the Chinese economy may have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. Our revenues in the automotive navigation and mobile and internet location-based service platform segments ultimately depend on end-user spending, which in turn depend on the end-users’ level of disposable income, perceived future earnings and willingness to spend. As there are still substantial uncertainties in the current and future conditions in the global and Chinese economies, consumers may avoid purchasing new automobiles and reduce their spending on discretionary items, such as portable navigation devices and mobile location-based services. Moreover, to the extent we offer credit to any customer and such customer experiences financial difficulties due to the economic slowdown, we could have difficulty collecting payments from such customers. Further disruptions of the financial markets could also significantly restrict our ability to obtain financing in the capital markets or from financial institutions. Failure to renew our current leases or locate desirable alternatives for our facilities could materially and adversely affect our business. We maintain a production facility in the Changping Hi-tech Park in Beijing, China, where we lease approximately 8,437 square meters of office space. The lease for our production facility in the Changping Hi-tech Park will expire at the end of March 2015. In addition to such production facility, we also lease an aggregate of approximately 11,700 square meters of office space throughout China. If we are not be able to successfully extend or renew such leases upon expiration of the current term on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and may therefore be forced to relocate our affected operations. This could disrupt our operations and result in significant relocation expenses, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to locate desirable alternative sites for our facilities as our business continues to grow and such failure in relocating our affected operations could affect our business and operations. We face risks related to natural disasters, health epidemics and other outbreaks, which could significantly disrupt our operations. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption and damage from natural and other types of disasters, including earthquakes, fire, floods, environmental accidents, power loss, communication failures and similar events. If any natural disaster or other extraordinary events were to occur in the area where we operate, our ability to operate our business could be seriously impaired due to loss of personnel and damages to property, including our raw data, digital map database and technology systems. A disaster affecting a larger, more developed area could also cause an increase in our costs resulting from the efforts to resurvey the affected area. Moreover, our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of avian influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), the influenza A (H1N1, H7N9, etc.) or another epidemic. Such occurrences could cause severe disruption to our daily operations, including our field survey, data production and sales and marketing activities, and may even require a temporary closure of our data production facilities. Our operation could also be severely disrupted if our suppliers, customers or business partners were affected by such natural disasters or health epidemics. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our businesses in China do not comply with PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment in surveying and mapping, digital navigation map production, aerial photogrammetry and value-added telecommunication services, including but not limited to internet content services, or if these regulations or the interpretation of existing regulations change in the future, we could be subject to severe penalties or be forced to relinquish our interests in those operations. Current PRC laws and regulations place certain restrictions on foreign ownership of companies that engage in surveying and mapping, the production of digital navigation maps, aerial photogrammetry and value-added telecommunication services, including but not limited to internet content services. Specifically, a foreign investor may only hold a minority interest in a Chinese entity that engages in surveying and mapping, and foreign-invested companies are prohibited from engaging in the production of digital navigation maps and aerial photogrammetry. In addition, foreign ownership in an internet content provider or other value-added telecommunication service providers may not exceed 50%. We conduct our operations in China principally through contractual arrangements among our PRC subsidiary, AutoNavi Information Technology Co., Ltd., or AutoNavi Technology, two affiliated companies in the PRC, AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology, and their respective shareholders. AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology and their subsidiaries hold the licenses and permits necessary to conduct our surveying and mapping business, value-added telecommunication services and related businesses in China. Our contractual arrangements with AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology and their respective shareholders enable us to: · exercise effective control over AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology; · receive substantially all of the economic benefits of AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology; and · have an exclusive option to purchase all or part of the equity interests in each of AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology when and to the extent permitted by PRC law. Because of these contractual arrangements, we become the primary beneficiary of AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology and hence treat them as our variable interest entities and consolidate their results. If we, AutoNavi Technology or either of our variable interest entities is found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, including the restrictions on foreign ownership of companies that engage in surveying and mapping, the production of digital navigation maps, aerial photogrammetry and value-added telecommunication services, including but not limited to internet content services, or fails to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities, including the NASMG, which regulates digital navigation map production and aerial photogrammetry, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, which regulates value-added telecommunication services, and General Administration of Press and Publication, which regulates electronic and internet publication, as well as the Ministry of Commerce, which is the primary regulator of foreign investment in China, and the National Development and Reform Commission, would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations or failures, including: · revoking the business and operating licenses and surveying and mapping qualification certificates of AutoNavi Technology and our variable interest entities; · discontinuing or restricting AutoNavi Technology’s and variable interest entities’ operations; · imposing fines, confiscating the income from AutoNavi Technology and variable interest entities’ operations, or imposing conditions or other requirements with which we or AutoNavi Technology or our variable interest entities may not be able to comply; and · requiring us or AutoNavi Technology and our variable interest entities to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations. 18 Table of Contents The imposition of any of these penalties would result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. If any of these penalties results in our inability to direct the activities of any of our variable interest entities that most significantly impact their economic performance, and/or our failure to receive the economic benefits from any of our variable interest entities, we may not be able to consolidate the variable interest entity in our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In many cases, existing regulations with regard to foreign investors investing in companies that engage in surveying and mapping, producing digital navigation maps, aerial photogrammetry, and value-added telecommunication services, including but not limited to, internet content services, lack detailed explanations and operational procedures and are subject to interpretation, which may change over time. Most of these regulations have not been interpreted by the relevant authorities in circumstances similar to our corporate structure. Accordingly, we cannot be certain how the regulations will be applied to our business, either currently or in the future. Moreover, new regulations may be adopted and the interpretation of existing regulations may change, any of which could result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We rely on contractual arrangements with AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology and their shareholders for our China operations, which may not be as effective as direct ownership, in providing operational control. We rely on contractual arrangements with our variable interest entities, AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology, and their shareholders to operate our business. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Contractual Arrangements with Our PRC Variable Interest Entities and Their Shareholders.” These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing us with control over our variable interest entities. Under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if our variable interest entities or their shareholders fail to perform their respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend additional resources to enforce such arrangements. We may also have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which we cannot assure you will be effective. Under the equity pledge agreements between our subsidiary AutoNavi Technology and the respective shareholders of AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology, those shareholders pledged their equity interests in AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology to AutoNavi Technology to secure AutoNavi Software’s and MapABC Technology’s obligations under the exclusive technology and consulting service agreements, the know-how license agreements and, in the case of AutoNavi Software, the domain name license agreement and the patent license agreement. Our PRC counsel, Jun He Law Offices, has advised us that these pledges were duly created by recording the pledge on AutoNavi Software’s and MapABC Technology’s respective register of shareholders in accordance with the PRC Security Law. However, according to the PRC Property Rights Law, a pledge will not be effective unless it has been registered with the relevant administration for industry and commerce. AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology are in the process of registering the pledges with the relevant administration for industry and commerce in accordance with the PRC Property Rights Law. AutoNavi Technology may not be able to successfully enforce the pledges against any third parties who have acquired equity interests in good faith in AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology. As a result, if AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology breach their obligations under the various agreements described above, and there are third parties who have acquired equity interests in good faith, AutoNavi Technology would need to resort to legal proceedings to enforce its contractual rights under the equity pledge agreements, or the underlying agreements secured by the pledges. Under the existing contractual arrangements, AutoNavi Technology has entered into a series of service agreements with AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology to enable it to receive substantially all of the economic benefits of AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology. We believe that our exclusive option to purchase all or part of the equity interests in AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology, when and to the extent permitted by PRC law, or request any existing shareholder of AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology to transfer all or part of the equity interest in AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology to another PRC person or entity designated by us at any time in our discretion, and the power of attorney that AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology’s shareholders have granted to us, effectively enable us to have the ability to cause the related service contracts to be renewed when needed. However, if we are not able to renew these service agreements when they expire, our ability to receive the economic benefits of AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology may be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents All of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in some other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements, which may make it difficult to exert effective control over our variable interest entities, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to have the power to direct the activities that most significantly affect the economic performance of our variable interest entities, and we may not be able to consolidate the financial results of AutoNavi Software, MapABC Technology and their subsidiaries into our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Contractual arrangements we have entered into with our variable interest entities and their respective shareholders may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and they may determine that we or our PRC variable interest entities and their subsidiaries owe additional taxes, which could substantially reduce our consolidated net income and the value of your investment. Under applicable PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements among AutoNavi Technology, our wholly-owned subsidiary in China, AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology, our variable interest entities in China, and their respective shareholders were not entered into on an arm’s-length basis or resulted in an impermissible reduction in taxes under applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, and adjust AutoNavi Software’s and MapABC Technology’s income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction of, for PRC tax purposes, expense deductions recorded by AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology, which could in turn increase their respective tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose punitive interest on AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology for the adjusted but unpaid taxes at the rate of 5% over the basic RMB lending rate published by the People’s Bank of China for a period according to the applicable regulations. Our consolidated net income could be materially and adversely affected if our variable interest entities’ tax liabilities increase or if they are required to pay punitive interest. The shareholders of our variable interest entities may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. The shareholders of AutoNavi Software are Jun Hou, our co-founder and chairman, Congwu Cheng, our co-founder and chief executive officer, Jun Xiao, our former director, Derong Jiang, our co-founder and senior vice president of quality control, Wenzhi Ye, our co-founder, Peng Liu, our co-founder, Jianjun Yuan, our co-founder, and Zilong Liu, an independent third party. The shareholders of MapABC Technology are Jun Hou and Xiyong Tang, our senior vice president of operations and management. All these individuals are beneficial owners of our Cayman Islands holding company, and some of them serve as our directors or executive officers. See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—E. Share Ownership.” The interests of these individuals as the shareholders of our variable interest entities may differ from the interests of our company as a whole. For example, these individuals may breach or cause our variable interest entities or their subsidiaries to breach or refuse to renew existing contractual arrangements with us. Currently, we do not have existing arrangements to address such potential conflicts of interest between these individuals and our company. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, any or all of these individuals will act in the best interests of our company and our shareholders, or that conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. We rely on those of our variable interest entities’ shareholders who are also our directors or executive officers to abide by the laws of the Cayman Islands, which provide that a company’s directors and/or officers owe a fiduciary duty to the company, which requires them to act in good faith and in the best interests of our company and not to use their positions for personal gain. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and those individuals, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in disruption of our business and substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. 20 Table of Contents Our subsidiaries in China are subject to restrictions on paying dividends and making other payments to our holding company. AutoNavi Holdings Limited is our holding company incorporated in the Cayman Islands and does not conduct any business operations other than investing in our subsidiaries and affiliated entities. As a result of the holding company structure, it may rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by AutoNavi Technology, our PRC subsidiary, for our cash and financing requirements, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders and service any debt we may incur. Under PRC laws and regulations, AutoNavi Technology, as a wholly foreign-owned enterprise in the PRC, may pay dividends only out of its accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. AutoNavi Technology is required to set aside at least 10% of its accumulated after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund certain statutory reserve funds, until the aggregate amount of such a fund reaches 50% of its registered capital. At its discretion, it may allocate a portion of their after-tax profits based on PRC accounting standards to staff welfare and bonus funds. These reserve funds and staff welfare and bonus funds are not distributable as cash dividends. The PRC government also imposes controls on the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies and the remittance of foreign currencies out of China. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. Furthermore, if our subsidiaries in China incur debt on their own in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments. If our subsidiaries in China are unable to pay dividends or make other payments to us, we may be unable to pay dividends on our ordinary shares and ADSs. See also “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Our global income or the dividends that we may receive from our PRC subsidiary may be subject to PRC taxes under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, which would have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations.” PRC regulation of loans to and direct investment in PRC entities by offshore holding companies and governmental control of currency conversion may delay or prevent us from making loans to our PRC subsidiaries and variable interest entities or making additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiary, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. We are an offshore holding company conducting our operations in China through our PRC subsidiaries and variable interest entities. We may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries and variable interest entities, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC regulations and foreign exchange loan registrations. For example, loans by us to AutoNavi Technology to finance its activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the local counterpart of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. We may also decide to finance AutoNavi Technology by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. Due to the restrictions imposed on loans in foreign currencies extended to any PRC domestic companies, we are not likely to make such loans to our variable interest entities, each a PRC domestic company. Meanwhile, we are not likely to finance the activities of our variable interest entities by means of capital contributions due to regulatory restrictions relating to foreign investment in PRC domestic enterprises engaged in the surveying and mapping business or value-added telecommunication services, including but not limited to internet content services, as well as licensing and other regulatory issues. Pursuant to a SAFE Circular 142 promulgated by SAFE, the RMB capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign-invested enterprise may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the RMB capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign-invested company. The use of such RMB capital may not be altered without SAFE’s approval, and such RMB capital may not in any case be used to repay RMB loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Violations of SAFE Circular 142 could result in severe monetary or other penalties. In addition, SAFE promulgated a SAFE Circular 59, which requires the authenticity of settlement of net proceeds from offshore offerings to be closely examined and the net proceeds to be settled in the manner described in the offering documents. Furthermore, SAFE issued an internal guideline to its local counterparts, referred to as SAFE Circular 45, in November 2011. SAFE Circular 45 has never been formally announced to the public or posted on SAFE’s website. Based on the version of SAFE Circular 45 made publicly available by certain local governmental authorities on their websites, we understand that SAFE Circular 45 requires SAFE’s local counterparts to strengthen the control imposed by SAFE Circulars 142 and 59 over the conversion of a foreign-invested company’s capital contributed in foreign currency into RMB. SAFE Circular 45 stipulates that a foreign-invested company’s RMB funds, if converted from the company’s capital contributed in foreign currency, may not be used by the company to (i) extend loans (in the form of entrusted loans), (ii) repay borrowings between enterprises, or (iii) repay bank loans that it has obtained and on-lent to third parties. 21 Table of Contents In light of the various requirements imposed by PRC regulations on loans to and direct investment in PRC entities by offshore holding companies, including SAFE Circulars 142, 59 and 45, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the necessary government registrations or obtain the necessary government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries or any variable interest entities or with respect to future capital contributions by us to our PRC subsidiaries. If we fail to complete such registrations or obtain such approvals, our ability to capitalize or otherwise fund our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. If AutoNavi Software or MapABC Technology becomes the subject of a bankruptcy or liquidation proceeding, we may lose the ability to use and enjoy its assets, which could materially and adversely affect our business. We operate our business through contractual arrangements with AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology as well as their respective shareholders. As part of these arrangements, AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology hold assets that are important to the operation of our business. We do not have priority pledges and liens against the assets of AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology. As a contractual and property right matter, this lack of priority pledges and liens has remote risks. If AutoNavi Software or MapABC Technology undergoes an involuntary liquidation proceeding, third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of its assets and we may not have priority against such third-party creditors on its assets. If AutoNavi Software or MapABC Technology liquidates, we may take part in the liquidation procedures as a general creditor under the PRC Enterprise Bankruptcy Law and recover any outstanding liabilities owed by AutoNavi Software or MapABC Technology to AutoNavi Technology under the contractual arrangements between them. To ameliorate the risks of an involuntary liquidation proceeding initiated by a third-party creditor, we closely monitor the operations and finances of AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology through carefully designed budgetary and internal controls to ensure that AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology are well capitalized and are highly unlikely to trigger any third party monetary claims in excess of their respective assets and cash resources. Furthermore, AutoNavi Technology has the ability, if necessary, to provide financial support to AutoNavi Software and MapABC Technology to avoid such an involuntary liquidation. If the shareholders of AutoNavi Software or MapABC Technology were to attempt to voluntarily liquidate AutoNavi Software or MapABC Technology without obtaining our prior consent, we could effectively prevent such unauthorized voluntary liquidation by exercising our right to request their respective shareholders to transfer all of their equity interests to a PRC entity or individual designated by us in accordance with the exclusive purchase option agreements with the respective shareholders of AutoNavi Software or MapABC Technology, to the extent permitted by PRC laws. In the event that the shareholders of AutoNavi Software or MapABC Technology initiates a voluntary liquidation proceeding without our authorization or attempts to distribute the retained earnings or assets of AutoNavi Software or MapABC Technology without our prior consent, we may need to resort to legal proceedings to enforce the terms of the contractual agreements. Any such legal proceeding may be costly and may divert our management’s time and attention away from the operation of our business, and the outcome of such legal proceeding would be uncertain. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in the political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material and adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations there. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past decades, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of economy. We cannot assure you that the Chinese economy will continue to grow, or that if there is growth, such growth will be steady and uniform, or that if there is a slowdown, such a slowdown will not have a negative effect on our business. 22 Table of Contents As the PRC economy is increasingly intricately linked to the global economy, it is affected in various respects by downturns and recessions of major economies around the world, such as the recent global financial crisis. Stimulus measures designed to help China weather the recent global financial crisis may contribute to higher inflation, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For example, certain operating costs and expenses, such as direct production cost and employee compensation, may increase as a result of higher inflation. Measures to control the pace of economic growth may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. It is unclear whether PRC economic policies will be effective in maintaining stable economic growth in the future. Any slowdown in the economic growth of China could lead to reduced demand for our solutions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of Chinese laws and regulations could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes and prior court decisions have limited value as precedents. Our PRC subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises as well as various Chinese laws and regulations generally applicable to companies incorporated in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involves uncertainties. From time to time, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce our legal rights. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. Furthermore, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published in a timely manner or at all) that may have retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until sometime after the violation. Such uncertainties, including uncertainty over the scope and effect of our contractual, property (including intellectual property) and procedural rights, could materially and adversely affect our business and impede our ability to continue our operations. The laws and regulations governing navigation and location-based services and related services in China are developing and subject to changes. If we fail to maintain and renew existing or obtain additional licenses and permits necessary to conduct our operations in China, our business would be materially and adversely affected. The navigation and location-based services and internet related services industry are highly regulated by the PRC government. Various regulatory authorities of the PRC government, such as the NASMG, the GAPPRFT and the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, are empowered to issue and implement regulations governing various aspects of the navigation and location-based services industry. We are required to obtain various licenses and permits from different regulatory authorities in order to conduct our operations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations on Licenses.” According to the Opinions on Strengthening the Administration of Internet Map Services and the Websites that Provide Geographical Information Services jointly issued by eight government agencies in February 2008, the publication of internet maps is subject to the approval of the GAPPRFT and requires an internet publishing license. We have been providing internet map solutions since 2006, but have not obtained an internet publishing license for such business. Three of our variable interest entities have obtained the surveying and mapping qualification certificates for internet map service from the NASMG. However, we cannot rule out the possibility that the GAPPRFT may demand that we suspend our internet map application business for the lack of an internet publishing license in the future and impose severe penalties on us. Although we have not generated significant revenues from our internet map application business, suspension of this business may adversely affect our growth and prospects. 23 Table of Contents In addition, AutoNavi Software holds a publication operating license necessary for sales of our digital map data. However, Beijing ADF Navigation Technology Co., Ltd., or ADF Navigation, does not have such a license. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from licensing our digital map data to in-dash navigation system manufacturers and automobile manufacturers, mainly through ADF Navigation. We cannot rule out the possibility that the GAPPRFT may demand that ADF Navigation suspend its business for the lack of a publication operating license and impose severe penalties on ADF Navigation. Moreover, under current PRC laws and regulations, a commercial operator of internet content provisions services must obtain an ICP license, and a commercial operator of information services or call center services must obtain an SP license. We have obtained ICP licenses that are necessary for us to operate our websites and hold two SP licenses in order to provide value-added location-based solutions. As the navigation and location-based services and related services industries in China are developing, new laws and regulations may be adopted from time to time to require additional licenses and permits other than those we currently have, and address new issues that arise from time to time. As a result, substantial uncertainties exist regarding the interpretation and implementation of current and any future PRC laws and regulations applicable to the navigation and location-based services industry. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our existing licenses and certificates or renew any of them in a timely manner, or at all, when their current term expires. For example, our Class A surveying and mapping qualification certificate for digital navigation map production and related activities, which was issued by the NASMG, is valid until December 31, 2014 and subject to annual review. If we are unable to maintain and renew one or more of our licenses and certificates, particularly our Class A surveying and mapping qualification certificate for digital navigation map production and related activities, or obtain such renewals on commercially reasonable terms, our operations could be materially disrupted. Furthermore, if the PRC government requires additional licenses or permits in the future in order for us to conduct our businesses, there is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain such licenses or permits in a timely manner, or at all. Fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and your investment. The conversion of RMB into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, is based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China. The PRC government allowed the RMB to appreciate by more than 20% against the U.S. dollar between July 2005 and July 2008. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation was halted and the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. Since June 2010, the PRC government has allowed the RMB to appreciate slowly against the U.S. dollar again, though there have been periods recently when the U.S. dollar has appreciated against the RMB. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar in the future. There remains significant international pressure on the Chinese government to adopt a substantial liberalization of its currency policy, which could result in further appreciation in the value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for capital expenditures and working capital and other business purposes, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we would receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs, strategic acquisitions or investments or other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. 24 Table of Contents The reporting and functional currency of our Cayman Islands holding company is the U.S. dollar. However, substantially all of the revenues and most of the expenses of our consolidated operating subsidiaries and variable interest entities are denominated in RMB. Substantially all of our sales contracts are denominated in RMB and substantially all of our costs and expenses are denominated in RMB. Appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. These and other effects on our financial data resulting from fluctuations in the value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar could have a material and adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs and your investment. Governmental control of currency conversion may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively and affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under our current corporate structure, our Cayman Islands holding company may rely on dividend payments from our PRC subsidiary, AutoNavi Technology, to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. Therefore, AutoNavi Technology is able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to us without prior approval from SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. But approval from or registration with appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currencies to satisfy our foreign currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. Regulation and censorship of information disseminated over the internet in China may adversely affect our business, and we may be liable for information displayed on, retrieved from, or linked to our internet websites. The PRC government has adopted certain regulations governing internet access and the distribution of news and other information over the internet. Under these regulations, internet content providers and internet publishers are prohibited from posting or displaying over the internet content that, among other things, violates PRC laws and regulations, impairs the national dignity of China, or is obscene, superstitious, fraudulent or defamatory. Meanwhile, when internet content providers and internet publishers find that information falling within the categories described above is transmitted on their website or is stored in its electronic bulletin service system, they must terminate the transmission of such information or delete such information immediately and keep records and report this to the relevant authorities. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in the revocation of the internet content provider license and other required licenses and the closure of the concerned websites. The website operator may also be held liable for such prohibited information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to such website. The Ministry of Industry and Information Technology has published regulations that subject website operators to potential liabilities for content included on their websites and the actions of users and others using their websites, including liability for violations of PRC laws prohibiting the dissemination of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. The Ministry of Public Security has the authority to order any local internet service provider to block any internet website maintained outside China at its sole discretion. Periodically, the Ministry of Public Security has stopped the dissemination over the internet of information which it believes to be socially destabilizing. The State Secrecy Bureau, which is directly responsible for the protection of the PRC government’s state secrets, is authorized to block any website it deems to be leaking state secrets or fail to meet the relevant regulations relating to the protection of state secrets in the dissemination of online information. In December 2012, the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress of the PRC issued the Decision on Strengthening the Protection of Online Information. Pursuant to the decision, an ICP operator shall improve its administration on the information published by its website users. If an ICP operator finds the publicized information is prohibited by laws and regulations, it must stop the dissemination and eliminate the publication of such information immediately, keep records and report to the relevant government authority. 25 Table of Contents Through our variable interest entities in China, we operate our MapABC.com and other websites which, among other things, allow users to post location-related information on the websites. As these regulations are relatively new and subject to interpretation by the relevant authorities, it may not be possible for us to determine in all cases the type of content that could result in liability for us as a website operator. In addition, we may not be able to control or restrict the content of other internet content providers linked to or accessible through our websites, or content generated or placed on our websites by our users, despite our attempt to monitor such content. To the extent that regulatory authorities find any portion of our content objectionable, they may require us to limit or eliminate the dissemination of such information on our websites, and keep records and report to relevant authorities. In addition, we may be subject to significant penalties for violations of those regulations, and our operations and reputation could be adversely affected. PRC regulations relating to acquisitions in China may subject us to requisite approval by the Ministry of Commerce and the failure to obtain such approval could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations, reputation and trading price of our ADSs. The Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Regulation, jointly issued by six PRC regulatory agencies, include provisions that purport to require the Ministry of Commerce’s approval for acquisitions by offshore entities established or controlled by domestic companies, enterprises or natural persons of onshore entities that are related to such domestic companies, enterprises or natural persons. However, the interpretation and implementation of the M&A Regulation remain unclear with no consensus currently existing regarding the scope and applicability of the Ministry of Commerce approval requirement on foreign acquisitions among related parties. We currently have various agreements with our variable interest entities and their shareholders that give us effective control over them, including operating agreements and equity pledges. If the Ministry of Commerce subsequently determines that their approval was required for such contractual arrangements, we may need to apply for a remedial approval. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such approval or waiver of such approval from the Ministry of Commerce. Inability to obtain such approval or waiver from the Ministry of Commerce may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. Further, we may be subject to certain administrative punishments or other sanctions from the Ministry of Commerce. The Ministry of Commerce or other regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of our U.S. dollars funds into the PRC, or take other actions that could have further material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. The M&A Regulation and certain other PRC regulations could also make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions. The M&A Regulation discussed in the preceding risk factor also established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time consuming and complex, including a requirement that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise or a foreign company with substantial PRC operations, if either threshold under the Provisions on Thresholds for Prior Notification of Concentrations of Undertakings issued by the State Council in August 2008 is triggered. In addition, the Implementing Rules Concerning Security Review on the Mergers and Acquisitions by Foreign Investors of Domestic Enterprises, issued by the PRC Ministry of Commerce in August 2011, specify that mergers and acquisitions by foreign investors involved in “an industry related to national security” are subject to security review by the PRC Ministry of Commerce, and prohibit any activities attempting to bypass such security review, including by structuring the transaction through a proxy or contractual control arrangement. In the future, we may grow our business in part by directly acquiring complementary businesses rather than through our variable interest entities. Complying with the requirements of these regulations to complete such transactions could be time consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. 26 Table of Contents PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners or our PRC subsidiary to liability or penalties, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiary, limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to increase its registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. Pursuant to a SAFE Circular No. 75 issued by SAFE in November 2005 and its implementation rules, PRC residents and PRC corporate entities are required to register with and obtain approval from local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents and may apply to any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. Under these foreign exchange regulations, PRC residents who make, or have previously made prior to the implementation of these foreign exchange regulations, direct or indirect investments in offshore companies will be required to register those investments. In addition, any PRC resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of an offshore company is required to update the previously filed registration with the local branch of SAFE, with respect to that offshore company, to reflect any material change involving its round-trip investment, capital variation, such as an increase or decrease in capital, a transfer or swap of shares, a merger, division, long-term equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest. Moreover, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore company are required to urge the PRC resident shareholders to update their registration with the local branch of SAFE when such updates are required under applicable foreign exchange regulations. If any PRC shareholder fails to make the required registration or update the previously filed registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore parent company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to their offshore parent company, and the offshore parent company may also be prohibited from injecting additional capital into its PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the various foreign exchange registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. We are aware that our PRC resident beneficial owners subject to the SAFE registration requirement have registered with the Beijing SAFE branch. However, we cannot provide any assurance that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will continue to make, obtain or update any applicable registrations or approvals required by these foreign exchange regulations. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth in these regulations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute dividends to, or obtain foreign-exchange-dominated loans from, our company, or prevent us from being able to make distributions or pay dividends, as a result of which our business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration requirements for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans may subject the PRC plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. Under the applicable regulations and SAFE rules, PRC citizens who participate in an employee stock ownership plan or a stock option plan in an overseas publicly listed company are required to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. Participants of an employee stock ownership plan must retain a PRC agent through the PRC subsidiary of the overseas listed company for which they work to handle matters regarding foreign exchange registration, bank account opening and foreign currency remittance. The PRC agent could be a PRC subsidiary of the oversea listed company or a PRC institution that conducts assets custodian business appointed by the PRC subsidiary. The PRC agent should also retain an overseas custodian agency to handle matters in connection with the exercises or sales of stock options for the stock option plan participants. We and our PRC employees who have been granted stock options are subject to this rule and we and our PRC optionees are in the process of applying for the registration. However, we cannot assure you that we and our PRC optionees will complete such registration procedures in a timely manner, or at all. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations on Employee Stock Options Plan.” 27 Table of Contents The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments currently available to us in the PRC or imposition of any additional PRC taxes on us could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. AutoNavi Technology, AutoNavi Software, MapABC Technology, AutoNavi Xiamen, ADF Navigation, Xingtiandi Technology and PDAger qualify as “high and new technology enterprises,” which entitles them to a preferential tax rate of 15%, subject to their maintenance of the “high and new technology enterprise” status. ADF Navigation also qualifies as a “manufacturing foreign-invested enterprise,” and it was entitled to full tax exemption between 2008 and 2009 and a further reduced tax rate of 12.5% between 2010 and 2012, and the preferential tax rate of 15% for “high and new technology enterprise” in 2013 and thereafter. As a “high and new technology enterprise” located in Zhongguancun, a district in Beijing, China, AutoNavi Technology is entitled to the tax-exemption in 2009 followed by a reduced tax rate of 7.5% for the subsequent three years and the preferential tax rate of 15% for “high and new technology enterprise” in 2013 and thereafter. The continued qualification of a “high and new technology enterprise” is subject to annual evaluation and a three-year review by the relevant government authorities in China. If any of AutoNavi Technology, AutoNavi Software, MapABC Technology, AutoNavi Xiamen, ADF Navigation, Xingtiandi Technology, and PDAger fails to maintain its “high and new technology enterprise” qualification or renew its qualification when its current term expires, its applicable enterprise income tax rate may increase to 25%, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to “high and new technology enterprise,” AutoNavi Software was recognized as a “key software enterprise” for 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013 and was entitled to a preferential tax rate of 10% for these years and thereafter as long as it continues to qualify as “key software enterprise.” The “key software enterprise” qualification is subject to examination and approval each year. Preferential tax treatment granted to our PRC subsidiaries or consolidated variable interest entities by the local governmental authorities is subject to review and may be adjusted or revoked at any time. The discontinuation of any preferential tax treatments currently available to our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated variable interest entities will cause our effective tax rate to increase, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current effective tax rate in the future. Our global income or the dividends that we may receive from our PRC subsidiary may be subject to PRC taxes under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, which would have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management body” within the PRC is considered a PRC resident enterprise and will be subject to the PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its global income. The implementation rules define the term “de facto management body” as the management body that exercises full and substantial control and overall management over the business, productions, personnel, accounts and properties of an enterprise. The SAT Circular 82 issued by State Administration of Taxation in April 2009 and a further notice issued in July 2011 provide certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a Chinese-controlled offshore-incorporated enterprise is located in China. Although SAT Circular 82 and the further notice only apply to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises and not those controlled by PRC individuals or foreigners, the determining criteria set forth therein may reflect the State Administration of Taxation’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises, individuals or foreigners. Accordingly, we may be considered a PRC resident enterprise and may therefore be subject to the PRC enterprise income tax at 25% on our global income. If we are considered a resident enterprise and earn income other than dividends from our PRC subsidiary, a 25% enterprise income tax on our global income could significantly increase our tax burden and materially and adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. See “Item 4.B. Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations on Tax—PRC Enterprise Income Tax.” Pursuant to the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, dividends generated after January 1, 2008 and payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its foreign investors will be subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10%, unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and substantially all of our income may come from dividends we receive from our subsidiary located in Hong Kong, which is the direct holding company of AutoNavi Technology, our PRC subsidiary. If our Hong Kong subsidiary is considered a non-PRC resident enterprise and holds at least 25% of the equity interest of AutoNavi Technology, dividends that it receives from AutoNavi Technology may be subject to withholding tax at a preferential rate of 5% under the Arrangement between the PRC and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion, effective on January 1, 2007, upon receiving approval from the local tax authority. However, if our Hong Kong subsidiary is not considered to be the beneficial owner of such dividends under a tax notice promulgated on October 27, 2009, such dividends would be subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10%. See “Item 4.B. Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations on Tax—Dividend Withholding Tax.” 28 Table of Contents We have been advised by our PRC counsel, Jun He Law Offices, that because there remains uncertainty regarding the interpretation and implementation of the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules, it is uncertain whether, if we are regarded as a PRC resident enterprise, any dividends to be distributed by us to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders would be subject to any PRC withholding tax. If we are required under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our non-PRC enterprise shareholders and ADS holders, your investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. The audit report included in this annual report are prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, investors are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or the PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in the Peoples’ Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Proceedings instituted by the SEC against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. In late 2012, the SEC commenced administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of its Rules of Practice and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 against five PRC based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm. Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) proceedings initiated by the SEC relate to these firms’ inability to produce documents, including audit work papers, in response to the request of the SEC pursuant to Section 106 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as the auditors located in the PRC are not in a position lawfully to produce documents directly to the SEC because of restrictions under PRC law and specific directives issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. The issues raised by the proceedings are not specific to our independent registered public accounting firm or to us, but affect equally all accounting firms based in China and all PRC based businesses with securities listed in the United States. In January 2014, the administrative judge reached an initial decision, sanctioning four of those PRC based accounting firms from practicing before the SEC for six months. However, it is currently impossible to determine the ultimate outcome of this proceeding, as the accounting firms have filed a petition for review of the initial decision, and the effect of the initial decision is suspended pending that review. The SEC will review the initial decision, determine whether there has been any violation and, if so, determine the appropriate remedy to be placed on those accounting firms. Once such an order was made, the accounting firms would have a further right to appeal to the US federal courts, and the effect of the order might be further stayed pending the outcome of that appeal. 29 Table of Contents Depending upon the final outcome, listed companies in the United States with major PRC operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act, including possible delisting. Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against those accounting firms may cause investor uncertainty regarding PRC based, United States listed companies and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. Risks Related to our ADSs The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be volatile. In 2013, the trading price of our ADSs on NASDAQ varied from $9.90 to $18.20. The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be volatile and could fluctuate widely due to multiple factors, including the following: · the announcement of our proposed merger with an affiliate of Alibaba Group, and news regarding the development of the proposed merger, such as completion of the merger or termination of the merger agreement; · regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; · announcements of studies and reports relating to the quality of our solutions or those of our competitors; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies that provide navigation and location-based solutions; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and changes or revisions of our expected results; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · conditions in the navigation and location-based services industry; · announcements by us or our competitors of new solutions, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · detrimental negative publicity about us, our competitors or our industry; · additions to or departures of our senior management; · fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and the U.S. dollar; and · sales or perceived potential sales of our ordinary shares or ADSs. The securities markets in the United States, China and elsewhere have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies, particularly in recent years. The securities of some China-based companies that have listed their securities in the United States have experienced significant volatility since their initial public offerings, including, in some cases, substantial price declines in the trading prices of their securities. The trading performances of these Chinese companies’ securities after their offerings may affect the attitudes of investors toward Chinese companies listed in the United States, which consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. Any negative news or perceptions about inadequate corporate governance practices or fraudulent accounting, corporate structure or other matters of other Chinese companies may also negatively affect the attitudes of investors towards Chinese companies in general, including us, regardless of whether we have conducted any inappropriate activities. 30 Table of Contents In addition, it was reported that, since the first half of 2012, local industry and commerce administration authorities in a number of cities in China had significantly curtailed public access to corporate records and filings filed with these industry and commerce administration authorities. Much of the previously publicly accessible information, such as financial reports and changes to equity interests, now can only be accessed by authorized government officers and officials from judicial authorities or lawyers involved in pending litigation relating to such company and with court-issued proof of such litigation. In March 2014, the State Administration of Industry and Commerce reformed the company filling system and cancelled the annual inspection requirements. The companies are therefore no longer required to submit financial reports to governmental authorities for inspection, but are encouraged to voluntarily release their annual reports to the public through the online system of industry and commerce administration authorities. It is not clear how these new rules will be implemented. The public may not be able to access information of a company if it does not voluntarily disclose it through its annual reports. Such limitation on the public access to corporate records and filings and the resulting concerns over the loss of, or limit in, an otherwise available source of information to verify and evaluate the soundness of China-based, U.S.-listed companies’ business operations in China may have an adverse effect on the overall investor confidence in China-based, U.S.-listed companies’ reported results or other disclosures, which may in turn cause the trading price of the securities of these China-based, U.S.-listed companies, including our ADSs, to decline. Substantial future sales or perceived potential sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. The ADSs sold in our initial public offering in 2010 are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. As of March 31, 2014, we had 278,101,145 ordinary shares outstanding, among which 125,350,003 ordinary shares are represented by ADSs. The remaining ordinary shares outstanding are available for sale, subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. In addition, certain holders of our ordinary shares have the right to cause us to register under the Securities Act the sale of their shares. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in ADSs representing these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. If any existing shareholder or shareholders sell a substantial amount of ADSs, the market price of our ADSs could decline. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs cannot exercise voting rights attaching to the shares represented by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs appointed the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings, and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register both the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to you unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective and we may not be able to establish a necessary exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. 31 Table of Contents The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property to you. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deems it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited because our holding company is incorporated under Cayman Islands law, we conduct substantially all of our operations in China and all of our directors and executive officers reside outside the United States. Our holding company is incorporated in the Cayman Islands and we conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our PRC subsidiaries and variable interest entities. All of our directors and executive officers reside outside the United States and a substantial portion of their assets are located outside of the United States. It may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind in a U.S. court, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and executive officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, as amended and restated from time to time, and by the Companies Law (2013 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against us and our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedents in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which provides persuasive, but not binding, authority. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in U.S. federal courts. As a result, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against us, our management, our directors or our major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. 32 Table of Contents Our memorandum and articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association contains certain provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company, including a provision that grants authority to our board of directors to establish from time to time one or more series of preferred shares without action by our shareholders and to determine, with respect to any series of preferred shares, the terms and rights of that series. The provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over the prevailing market price by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transactions. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, which could subject United States investors in the ADSs or ordinary shares to significant adverse tax consequences. Based on the price of our ADSs and ordinary shares and the composition of our assets, in particular the retention of a large amount of cash, we believe that it is very likely that we were classified as a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2013, and we will likely be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2014 unless our share value increases and/or we invest a substantial amount of the cash and other passive assets we hold in assets that produce or are held for the production of active income. In addition, it is possible that one or more of our subsidiaries may be or become classified as a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes. A non-U.S. corporation will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) 75% or more of its gross income consists of certain types of “passive” income or (2) 50% or more of the average quarterly value of its assets (as generally determined on the basis of fair market value) during such year produce or are held for the production of passive income. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder (as defined in Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation) holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, such U.S. Holder may incur significantly increased United States income tax on gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of the ADSs or ordinary shares and on the receipt of distributions on the ADSs or ordinary shares to the extent such gain or distribution is treated as an “excess distribution” under the United States federal income tax rules. Further, a U.S. Holder will generally be treated as holding an equity interest in a PFIC in the first taxable year of the U.S. Holder’s holding period in which we become classified as a PFIC and subsequent taxable years (“PFIC-Tainted Shares”) even if, we, in fact, cease to be a PFIC in subsequent taxable years. Accordingly, a U.S. Holder, should to the extent an election is available, consider making a “mark-to-market” election to avoid owning PEIC-Tainted shares. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 