Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below in evaluating our business. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. In that case, you might lose all or part of your investment in our ordinary shares. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this annual report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and the section entitled “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We have a limited operating history which provides limited reference for you to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objectives. We were formed in August 2009 as a Cayman Islands exempted limited liability company. One of our operating subsidiaries, Lizhan Textile, was formed in the PRC as a limited liability company on December 6, 2005 and our other operating subsidiary, Hongzhan (Zhejiang) New Material Co. Ltd., or Hongzhan, was formed in the PRC as a wholly foreign owned enterprise on December 8, 2009. Lizhan Textile did not generate significant revenues prior to our 2008 fiscal year and Hongzhan has not generated any revenue to date. Our financial condition, results of operations and future success will depend on our ability to continue to operate and expand our business profitably and to achieve significant economies of scale. Our company has a limited operating history, is subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with early stage companies and prior to our 2008 fiscal year operated at a loss. Accordingly, you will have a limited basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objectives. We cannot assure you that we will be able to operate our expanded business profitably. If we fail to achieve our business objectives, then we may not be able to realize our expected revenue growth, maintain our existing revenue levels or operate at a profit. Even if we do realize our business objectives, our business may not be profitable in the future. Our operations are cash intensive, and our business could be adversely affected if we fail to maintain sufficient levels of liquidity and working capital. During the past two fiscal years, we spent a significant amount of cash on our operational and investment activities, principally to procure raw materials for our products, to construct our Evergreen Product facilities and to acquire capital equipment. We financed operational and investment activities mainly from cash generated from operations, short-term bank loans and proceeds from bank acceptance notes payable. Subsequent to September 30, 2010, we converted a portion of our short-term loans to long-term loans, as discussed below under the heading “Operating and Financial Review as Prospects.” If we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from these sources, we may not have sufficient liquidity to fund our operating costs and our business could be adversely affected. Our short-term and long-term loans are from Chinese banks and are generally secured by our buildings, land use rights, and guarantees provided by our Chairman Mr. Liu and other unrelated parties. The term of all short-term loans is one year or less. Historically, we have rolled over such loans on an annual basis. However, we may not have sufficient funds available to pay all of our borrowings upon maturity. Failure to roll over our short-term borrowings at maturity or to service our debt could result in the imposition of penalties, including increases in interest rates, legal actions against us by our creditors, or even insolvency. Management anticipates that our existing capital resources and cash flows from operations and current and expected bank loans, bank facilities and lines of credit will be adequate to satisfy our liquidity requirements for the next twelve months. However, if available liquidity is not sufficient to meet our operating and loan obligations as they come due, our plans include considering pursuing alternative financing arrangements, reducing expenditures as necessary, or limiting our plans for expansion to meet our cash requirements. However, there is no assurance that, if required, we will be able to raise additional capital, reduce discretionary spending or efficiently limit our expansion to provide the required liquidity. Currently, the capital markets for small capitalization companies are extremely difficult and banking institutions have become stringent in their lending requirements. Accordingly, we cannot be sure of the availability or terms of any third party financing. If we are unable to raise additional financing, we may be unable to implement our long-term business plan, develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, a lack of additional financing could force us to substantially curtail or cease operations. The capital we recently raised is insufficient to meet our capital needs, and we may be required to curtail or significantly reduce our expansion plans. In November 2010, we raised $10.0 million in an initial public offering. We will use the proceeds of such offering to install Evergreen Product production lines. However, the capital we raised in our initial public offering is insufficient to meet our capital needs for this expansion. Consequently, we require additional capital to expand the production capacity of our Evergreen Products and develop a distribution network for our Evergreen Products. There can be no assurance that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The inability to obtain additional capital may reduce our ability to develop our business. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, we will likely be required to curtail or significantly reduce our expansion plans. Further, in the event that we were to raise equity in the future to finance future growth, any such additional equity financing may involve substantial dilution to our then existing shareholders. 4 Price inflation in China could affect our results of operation if we are unable to pass along raw material price increases to our customers. Inflation in China has recently increased. Recent reports indicate that inflation in China increased to a 28-month high in November 2010. Because we purchase raw materials from suppliers in China, price inflation has recently caused an increase in the cost of our raw materials. Price inflation could affect our results of operation if we are unable to pass along raw material price increases to customers. Similarly, the cost of the recent construction of our Evergreen Products facilities and the installation of our first Evergreen Product production line increased to an aggregate of approximately $13.0 million because of recent inflationary trends, and we currently anticipate that the installation of Evergreen Product production lines 2, 3 and 4 will cost approximately $12.0 million in the aggregate. In addition, if inflationary trends continue in China, China could lose its competitive advantage as a low-cost manufacturing venue, which could in turn lessen some of the competitive advantages of our being based in China. Accordingly, inflation in China may weaken our competitiveness domestically or in international markets. Our inability to manage our growth may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have experienced significant growth since we began operations in November 2007. Our revenues have grown from approximately $13.1 million for the year ended September 30, 2008 to approximately $46.3 million for the year ended September 30, 2010. The total number of our employees has grown from approximately 242 as of September 30, 2008 to 371 as of September 30, 2010. In addition, we recently completed the testing of the first of our Evergreen Product production lines and expect to begin mass production in mid-February. We intend to add a second Evergreen Product production line in May 2011. We expect our future growth to place significant demands on both our management and our resources. This will require us to continuously evolve and improve our operational, financial and internal controls across our organization. In particular, continued expansion increases the challenges we face in: · recruiting, training and retaining sufficient skilled technical, sales and management personnel; · adhering to our high quality and process execution standards; · maintaining high levels of customer satisfaction; · creating and managing economies of scale; · maintaining and managing costs to correspond with timeliness of revenue recognition; and · developing and improving our internal administrative infrastructure, including our financial, operational and communication systems, processes and controls. Any inability to manage our growth may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In the event that we encounter difficulties in developing or selling our Evergreen Products, or if our customers are not satisfied with our Evergreen Products, our business and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Outside of research and developments testing, we have never mass produced or sold our Evergreen Products. In the event that we encounter difficulties in, or failures with respect to, the installation of machinery and personnel, the manufacture or sale of these products or the development of a new nationwide distribution network, our business and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. With respect to our first Evergreen Product production line, we initially anticipated that mass production would begin in late November 2010 and the second production line in February 2011. However, we decided to delay mass production of our first production line to mid-February in order to make certain technical modifications to parts of the manufacturing equipment to ensure that the quality of the new Evergreen Products meets our standards and the standards of our customers, and further delays in the mass production or sales of these products are possible. We now expect the second production line to begin operating by May 2011 as a result of these modifications, although further delays are possible. Further, even if we do not encounter such difficulties, our customers may not be satisfied with our Evergreen Products or a market for the Evergreen Products may never develop. Any such difficulties or failures could result in financial losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline and delay or prevent the production or sale of our new Evergreen Products. 5 If we fail to offer products that our customers or consumers find attractive, the demand for our products may be limited. In order for our business to be successful, our product offerings must be useful to consumers, well made and affordable. We may not be successful in offering products that meet these requirements in the future. If our products become less popular with our customers or consumers, or if new products do not become popular with our customers or consumers, or if demand generally for products such as ours decreases or fails to grow, our sales may decline or we may be required to offer our products at lower prices. If customers buy fewer of our products, or if we have to reduce our prices, our net sales would decline and our operating results would be affected adversely. We believe that our future growth will be substantially dependent on the continued increase in sales growth of existing core products, such as our ultrasuede and synthetic leather powder products and our new Evergreen Products, while at the same time maintaining or increasing our current gross margin rates. During fiscal year 2009, we launched, and increased rapidly, the production and sales of our recycled leather flocked fabric products, which consist of fabrics that are flocked with recycled leather powder that improve the texture of the fabric. Our recycled leather flocked fabric products are higher margin products and are more environmentally friendly than other purely chemical-based products. We recently completed the testing of the first of our Evergreen Product production lines and intend to begin large scale production in mid-February. We also intend to install a second Evergreen Product production line in May 2011. The genuine leather content and profit margins of these Evergreen Products are expected to be even greater than our recycled leather flocked fabric products. However, we may not be able to increase the growth of existing core products or successfully introduce our Evergreen Products or other new products, or to maintain or increase our gross margin rates in future periods. Failure to do so may adversely affect our business. Moreover, in order to meet our strategic goals, we must successfully identify, obtain supplies of, and offer our customers high quality products on a continuous basis. These products must appeal to a wide range of residential and commercial consumers whose preferences may change in the future. If we misjudge either the market for our products or our customers’ or consumers’ purchasing habits, we may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for products we choose not to stock. In addition, our sales may decline or we may be required to sell our products at lower prices. This would adversely affect our business. We intend to install additional Evergreen Product production lines, which, among other things, may continue to divert our resources and may cause our margins to suffer. Our goal over the next several years will be to increase production and sales of our new Evergreen Products. This process has diverted, and could continue to divert, resources, including the focus of our management, from the operation of our business. In addition, our recent initial public offering, and attention to our new obligations as a U.S. reporting company, have diverted, and may in the future divert the focus of our management from the operation of our business and from the installation of our Evergreen Product production lines. The anticipated expansion of our Evergreen Products capabilities will increase our costs and potentially decrease operating margins before mass production is initiated and revenue is generated, which could, individually or in the aggregate, negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our plans to develop a nationwide network for our new Evergreen Products in the future entail numerous risks which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Currently, many of our domestic customers are located in close proximity to our facilities. We deliver our products directly to the manufacturing facilities of these customers. However, our long-term business strategy relies in large part on establishing a nationwide distribution network throughout the PRC for our new Evergreen Products. Risks affecting our expansion include challenges caused by geographic distance, cultural differences, compliance with regulations which differ from those to which we are accustomed, expertise and performance of potential distributors and the inability to effectively enforce contractual or other legal rights. These risks could result in increased and unbudgeted costs associated with servicing new markets, which could in turn materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. 6 Our revenues and profitability could be impacted because of our dependence on cost efficient raw materials. The principal raw materials that we use to produce our fabrics are leather waste and chemical fiber based materials. Our ability to continue to obtain raw materials is subject to the continued reliability and viability of our suppliers. We launched the production of recycled leather flocked fabric in fiscal year 2009, which are flocked with recycled leather waste, a lower cost material. Our Evergreen Products will also be manufactured from recycled leather waste. The number of recycled leather waste suppliers that we use is currently relatively small. As we expand our Evergreen Product production over the next several years, we are unable to obtain adequate or timely deliveries of required raw materials from these suppliers, we may be unable to find a replacement that is capable of manufacturing sufficient quantities of our products on a timely basis and at a reasonable cost. This could cause us to lose sales, incur additional costs, delay new product introductions or suffer harm to our reputation and could negatively impact our revenues. Furthermore, if we are unable to obtain our raw materials, and in particular leather waste, at cost efficient levels, our ability to generate profits may be harmed. We are subject to various risks and uncertainties that might affect our ability to procure quality raw materials. Our performance depends on our ability to procure low cost, high quality raw materials, including leather waste, PU, ultrasuede grey cloth, backing fabric and resin, on a timely basis from our suppliers. Our supplies are subject to certain risks, including availability of raw materials, labor disputes, inclement weather, natural disasters, and general economic and political conditions, which might limit the ability of our suppliers to provide us with low cost, high quality merchandise on a timely basis. Furthermore, for these or other reasons, one or more of our suppliers might not adhere to our quality control standards, and we might not identify the deficiency before the materials are shipped to us or our customers. Our suppliers’ failure to supply quality materials at a reasonable cost on a timely basis could reduce our net sales, damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We may have to increase the number of our suppliers of raw materials in the future to meet growing production demands. Despite our efforts to control our supply of raw materials and maintain good relationships with our suppliers, we could lose one or more of our suppliers at any time. The loss of one or more key suppliers could increase our reliance on higher cost or lower quality supplies, which could negatively affect our profitability. In addition, if we have to increase the number of our suppliers in the future to meet growing production demands, we may not be able to locate new suppliers who could provide us with sufficient materials to meet our needs. Any interruptions to, or decline in, the amount or quality of our raw materials supply could materially disrupt our production and adversely affect our business and financial condition and financial prospects. Because our sales and profitability fluctuate on a seasonal basis, our results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our production and sales slow considerably during and around the Chinese New Year, which usually occurs during the quarter ended March 31, as a result of the closing of our facilities and the facilities of many of our customers for the New Year’s celebration, as well as the shutting down of our steamers for an annual inspection by local authorities. In addition, our sales volume declines during summer due to the slow demand from the international markets while consumer spending is generally slower for furniture and garments. Consequently, our results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. In addition, any significant decrease in sales during the remainder of the year would have a material adverse effect on our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. We face intense competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively we may not be able to maintain profitability. The synthetic leather industry is highly fragmented but highly competitive. We compete with many other companies located in the PRC and internationally that manufacture fabrics similar to ours. Many of our competitors are larger companies with greater financial resources than us. In addition, we expect that as demand in the PRC and in other foreign countries for high quality, low cost synthetic leather and other fabric products continue to grow, new competitors will enter the market. In light of the many competitive challenges facing us, we may not be able to compete successfully. Increased competition could adversely affect our net sales in the future. Moreover, increased competition may result in potential or actual litigation between us and our competitors relating to such activities as competitive sales practices, relationships with key suppliers and customers or other matters. As a result, increased competition may adversely affect our future financial performance or reputation. 7 Any loss or limitations on our rights to use intellectual property licensed from third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We currently have an exclusive long-term license to use the key patents and patent applications which protects the technology to be used in the manufacture of our new Evergreen Products. We are, and will continue to be, reliant upon the owner of this patent to protect his intellectual property rights to this technology. While we are not aware of any disputes between the patent owner and us or any third party, the patent owner may determine not to protect his intellectual property rights that we license from him and we may be unable defend such intellectual property rights on our own or we may have to undertake costly litigation to defend the intellectual property rights of the patent owner. Upon the termination of the license agreement for this patent, we may no longer continue to have proprietary rights to the intellectual property that we license from the patent owner. Any loss or limitations on our right to use the intellectual property licensed from the patent owner could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, in many countries, the patent owner may be limited to monetary relief and may be unable to enjoin infringement, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. We are subject to third party claims of intellectual property infringement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. From time to time in the course of our business, we are subject to claims of patent infringement or other intellectual property infringement. Additional infringement claims may be asserted against us in the future. We may also be required to change our methodologies so as not to use any allegedly infringed intellectual property, which may not be technically or commercially feasible and may cause us to expend significant resources. Any claims or litigation relating to intellectual property infringement, whether we ultimately win or lose, could be time-consuming and costly and/or injure our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may lose our competitive advantage, and our operations may suffer, if we fail to prevent the loss, misappropriation of, or disputes over, our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets and confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. Our manufacturing processes are based on technology developed primarily in-house by our research and development and engineering personnel. While we are not aware of any infringement on our intellectual property, our ability to compete successfully and to achieve future revenue growth will depend, in significant part on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and operate without infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. The legal regime in China for the protection of intellectual property rights is still in an early stage of development. Intellectual property protection became a national effort in China in 1979 when China adopted its first statute on the protection of trademarks. Since then, China has adopted its Patent Law, Trademark Law and Copyright Law and promulgated related regulations. China has also acceded to various international treaties and conventions in this area, such as the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property, Patent Cooperation Treaty, Madrid Agreement and its Protocol Concerning the International Registration of Marks. In addition, when China became a party to the World Trade Organization in 2001, China amended many of its laws and regulations to comply with the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights. Despite many laws and regulations promulgated, and other efforts made, by China over the past several years in an attempt to protect intellectual property rights, intellectual property rights may not be as expansive or certain in China as they would in many Western countries, including the United States. Furthermore, enforcement of such laws and regulations in China has not been fully developed. Neither the administrative agencies nor the court systems in China are equipped as their counterparts in developed countries to deal with violations or handle the nuances and complexities between compliant technological innovation and non-compliant infringement. Our revenues are highly dependent on a limited number of customers and the loss of any one of our major customers could materially and adversely affect our growth and our revenues. During the years ended September 30, 2008, and 2009 and 2010, our five largest customers contributed approximately 75.4%, 74.9% and 79.1% of our total sales, respectively, while one of our single largest customers accounted for 26.5%, 32.6%, and 30.4% of our total sales, respectively. As a result of our reliance on a limited number of customers, we may face pricing and other competitive pressures which may have a material adverse effect on our growth and our revenues. The volume of work performed for specific customers is likely to vary from year to year, especially since we are not the exclusive provider for many of our customers, including all of our automobile upholstery customers. Furthermore, we do not have an exclusivity arrangement with any of our customers. In addition, there are a number of factors, other than our performance, that could cause the loss of a customer or a substantial reduction in the products that we provide to any customer and that may not be predictable. For example, our customers may decide to reduce spending on our products. The loss of any one of our major customers, a decrease in the volume of sales to these customers or a decrease in the price at which we sell our products to them could materially adversely affect our growth and our revenues and harm our reputation in the industry. Moreover, the loss of any one of our major customers could require us to initiate involuntary attrition, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our attrition rate and make it more difficult for us to attract and retain professionals in the future, which could further materially adversely affect our growth and our revenues. In addition, this customer concentration may subject us to perceived or actual leverage that our customers may have given their relative size and importance to us. If our customers seek to negotiate their agreements on terms less favorable to us and we accept such unfavorable terms, such unfavorable terms may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, unless and until we diversify and expand our customer base, our future success will significantly depend upon the timing and volume of business from our largest customers and the financial and operational success of these customers. 8 Our customers may decide to discontinue purchasing our products, which could materially and adversely affect our growth and our revenues. Our customers typically retain us through non-exclusive contracts or purchase orders. These agreements typically do not include any commitment by our customers to give us a specific volume of business beyond the particular transaction set forth in the agreement. In addition, the purchase orders that we enter into, including the advance sale purchase orders that we entered into in August 2010 with respect to our Evergreen Products, generally provide that the customer is not required to purchase the products specified in the purchase order if the products do not meet the customers’ quality requirements or other specifications. Our business is dependent on the decisions and actions of our customers, which are outside our control. Decisions by existing customers to refuse to purchase our Evergreen Products or existing products due to the failure of such products to meet the customer’s demands, or discontinue purchasing our products, even temporarily, could materially and adversely affect our growth and our revenues. Our customers operate in a limited number of industries. Factors that adversely affect these industries may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We derive a large portion of our revenues from customers which operate in a limited number of industries. For example, in fiscal years 2008, 2009, and 2010, we derived approximately 94%, 97% and 98% of our revenues from our customers in the furniture and garment manufacturing industries. We also sell our products to customers in the upholstery fabric and furniture manufacturing industries and are currently developing nylon taffeta to enable us to sell our products to the apparel industry. Any significant decrease in spending for our products by customers in these industries or in the other industries from which we derive significant revenues in the future may reduce the demand for our products. For instance, if economic conditions weaken in any of these industries, our clients may reduce or postpone their spending for our products significantly which may negatively affect our revenue and profitability. The loss of, or any significant decline in business from, one or more of our major customers would lead to a significant decline in our revenue and gross profit, particularly if we are unable to make corresponding reductions in our expenses in the event of any such loss or decline. Further, any significant decrease in the growth of the industries into which we intend to expand, or significant consolidation in those industries, or any decrease in growth or consolidation in other industry segments in which we operate, may reduce the demand for our products, which may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our customers’ businesses are not successful, the volume of purchases and the prices that they are willing to pay for our products may diminish, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The success of our business depends on the success of our customers’ businesses. If our customers are not successful, for any reason, the amount of volume of purchases and the prices that they are willing to pay for our products may diminish. Our customers’ decisions about how much money to budget for our products is directly impacted by their own financial success and forecasts of their own customers’ needs. If our customers’ products or services are not sufficiently utilized by their own customers, they may choose to reduce the volume of purchases of our products, which could cause our revenue to decline, which could in turn harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 9 If our customers experience financial difficulties, we could have difficulty recovering amounts owed to us from these customers. We sell our products to customers that have in the past, and may in the future, experience financial difficulties, particularly in light of the recent global economic downturn. If our customers experience financial difficulties, we could have difficulty recovering amounts owed to us from these customers. While we perform credit evaluations and adjust credit limits based upon each customer’s payment history and credit worthiness, such programs may not be effective in reducing our exposure to credit risk. We evaluate the collectability of accounts receivable, and based on these evaluations may need to make adjustments, to the allowance for doubtful accounts for expected losses. Actual bad debt write-offs may differ from our estimates, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our suppliers may also experience financial difficulties, which could result in our having difficulty sourcing the materials and components we use in producing our products. If we encounter such difficulties, we may not be able to produce our products for our customers in a timely fashion which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Public perception that products developed from our materials may be marketed as genuine leather or that our processing is not environmentally friendly, whether justified or not, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products are not genuine leather but are designed to look and feel like leather. We and, to our knowledge, our customers, do not market our fabrics or the end products developed from our fabrics as genuine leather. However, we cannot be certain that all manufacturers and marketers of products made from our fibers will refrain from marketing such products as genuine leather. In addition, certain of our products are manufactured from recycled materials and certain of our manufacturing processes are conducted using environmentally friendly methods. Public perception that products developed from our materials are being marketed as genuine leather or that our processing is not environmentally friendly, whether justified or not, could lead to reduced demand for our products, impair our reputation, involve us in litigation, damage our brand names and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our revenues, expenses and profits are difficult to predict and can vary significantly from quarter to quarter. This could cause the trading price of our ordinary shares to decline. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Therefore, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. It is possible that in the future some of our quarterly results of operations may be below the expectations of market analysts and our investors, which could lead to a significant decline in the trading price of our ordinary shares. As a large part of our revenues in any quarter are derived from existing customers, revenue growth can vary due to project starts and stops and customer specific situations. Factors which affect the fluctuation of our revenues, expenses and profits include: · changes in prices of our raw materials, with higher prices leading to reduced operating income; · variations, expected or unexpected, in the duration, size, timing and scope of purchase orders, particularly with our key customers; · the effect of facility closings during and around the Chinese New Year; · changes in our pricing policies or those of our customers or competitors; · unanticipated cancellations, non-renewal of our contracts by our customers, contract terminations or deferrals of deliveries; · the effect of hiring patterns, unanticipated attrition and the time required to train and productively utilize our new employees; · changes in compensation, which may reduce our gross profit for the quarter in which they are effected; · the size and timing of expansion of our facilities and opening new facilities; · our inability to manage costs, including those related to our raw materials, personnel, infrastructure and facilities; 10 · exchange rate fluctuations; and · general economic conditions. A portion of our expenses, particularly those related to personnel and facilities, are fixed in advance of any particular quarter. As a result, unanticipated variations in the number and timing of our purchase orders or prices of our raw materials may cause significant variations in our operating results in any particular quarter. There are also a number of factors besides our performance that are not within our control that could cause significant fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. We expect to undertake strategic acquisitions, joint ventures and alliances, which may prove to be difficult to integrate and manage or may not be successful, and may result in increased expenses or write-offs. We expect over time to pursue strategic acquisitions, joint ventures and alliances to enhance our capabilities and expand our industry expertise, technical expertise and geographic coverage. It is possible that we may not identify suitable acquisition candidates or alliance or joint venture partners, or if we do identify suitable candidates or partners, we may not complete those transactions on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all. The inability to identify suitable acquisition targets, joint ventures or alliances, or our inability to complete such transactions, may adversely affect our ability to compete and grow. These types of transactions involve numerous risks, including: · difficulties in integrating operations, systems, technologies, accounting methods and personnel; · difficulties in supporting and transitioning clients of our acquired companies or strategic partners; · disruption of our ongoing business; · diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; · risks of entering new markets; · potential loss of key employees; and · inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset transaction costs and expenses. Further, any such transaction that we attempt, whether or not completed, or any media reports or rumors with respect to any such transactions, may materially and adversely affect the value of our ordinary shares. We may finance future transactions through debt financing or the issuance of our equity securities or a combination of the foregoing. Acquisitions financed with the issuance of our equity securities could be dilutive, which could affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Acquisitions financed with debt could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to principal and interest payments and could subject us to restrictive covenants. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. Our inability to identify suitable acquisition targets, strategic investments or partnership or alliance candidates, or to complete such transactions, may negatively affect our competitiveness and growth prospects. Moreover, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions, alliances or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of those transactions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we had anticipated. Our success depends in large part upon our senior management and key personnel. Our inability to attract and retain these individuals could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are highly dependent on our senior management and other key employees, including Mr. Jianfeng Liu and Mr. Liwen Zhang. Mr. Liu is the founder of our company and has more than 20 years of experience in our industry. Mr. Zhang, our Chief Scientist, is the lead researcher responsible for our new Evergreen Products. The skills, knowledge and experience of these individuals, as well as other members of our senior management team, are critical to the growth of our company. Our future performance will be dependent upon the continued service of members of our senior management and key employees. We do not maintain key man life insurance for any of the members of our management team or other key personnel. Competition for senior management in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to retain our senior management and key personnel or attract and retain new senior management and key personnel in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 11 Because we have not yet procured business or product liability insurance, and we may not be able to procure business or product liability insurance in the future, we may not be protected from certain risks that are customarily covered by business or product liability insurance in the United States. We have not procured product liability or general liability insurance for our business because the insurance industry in China is still in the early stages of its development. To the extent that we suffer a loss of a type which would normally be covered by product liability or general liability insurance in the United States, we would incur significant expenses in defending any action against us and in paying any claims that result from a settlement or judgment against us. Product liability claims and product recalls may divert the attention of our management and could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and on our business, goodwill and reputation. Furthermore, adverse publicity could result in a loss of consumer confidence in our products. Risks Related to Doing Business in China China’s energy policies could have an adverse impact on our operations. The Chinese authorities reduce energy usage from time to time, such as during the summer months when the usage of electricity is high. Chinese authorities mandated a significant reduction of energy usage at the end of 2010 in an effort to meet the targets for energy consumption and emissions set by the 11th Five Year Plan, which plan concluded on December 31, 2010. As a result, we were restricted from using electrical power in our original facility for several days in November 2010. In response to this policy, we obtained a power generator to provide us with the energy needed to run our original facility when electrical power is restricted. Additional energy use restrictions could be imposed in the future. Any additional restrictions could adversely impact our results of operations in future periods. Our operations and assets in China are subject to significant political and economic uncertainties. Changes in PRC laws and regulations, or their interpretations, or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supply, devaluations of currency or the nationalization of other expropriation of private enterprises could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Under the current political leadership in the PRC, the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization in many industries, including ours. There is no assurance, however, that the Chinese government will continue to pursue these policies with respect to the Chinese economy generally or our industry in particular, or that it will not significantly alter these policies from time to time without notice. Most of our revenues are denominated in Renminbi, which is not freely convertible for capital account transactions and may be subject to exchange rate volatility. We are exposed to the risks associated with foreign exchange controls and restrictions in China, as our revenues are primarily denominated in Renminbi, which is currently not freely exchangeable. The PRC government imposes control over the convertibility between Renminbi and foreign currencies. Under the PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments for “current account” transactions, including remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends, profit distributions, interest and operation-related expenditures, may be made without prior approval but are subject to procedural requirements. Strict foreign exchange control continues to apply to “capital account” transactions, such as direct foreign investment and foreign currency loans. These capital account transactions must be approved by or registered with the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or “SAFE”. Further, any capital contribution by an offshore shareholder to its PRC subsidiaries should be approved by the Ministry of Commerce in China or its local counterparts. We cannot assure you that we are able to meet all of our foreign currency obligations to remit profits out of China or to fund operations in China. 12 On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues concerning the Improvement of the Administration of Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign- invested Enterprises, or “Circular 142”, to regulate the conversion by foreign invested enterprises, or FIEs, of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. Circular 142 requires that Renminbi converted from the foreign currency-dominated capital of a FIE may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable government authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC unless specifically provided for otherwise. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight over the flow and use of Renminbi funds converted from the foreign currency-dominated capital of a FIE. The use of such Renminbi may not be changed without approval from SAFE, and may not be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used. Compliance with Circular 142 may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand business. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi and of the U.S. dollar may have a material adverse effect on investments in our ordinary shares. Any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on the U.S. dollar equivalent amount of our revenues and financial condition as well as on the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ordinary shares in foreign currency terms. For instance, a decrease in the value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of our financial results, the value of your investment in our ordinary shares and the dividends we may pay in the future, if any, all of which may have a material adverse effect on the prices of our common shares. All of our revenues are denominated in Renminbi. Any further appreciation of Renminbi against U.S. dollars may result in significant exchange losses. Prior to 1994, Renminbi experienced a significant net devaluation against most major currencies, and there was significant volatility in the exchange rate during certain periods. Upon the execution of the unitary managed floating rate system in 1994, the Renminbi was devalued by 50% against the U.S. dollar. Since 1994, the Renminbi to U.S. dollar exchange rate has largely stabilized. On July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China announced that the exchange rate of U.S. dollar to Renminbi would be adjusted from $1 to RMB8.27 to $1 to RMB8.11, and it ceased to peg the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Instead, the Renminbi would be pegged to a basket of currencies, whose components would be adjusted based on changes in market supply and demand under a set of systematic principles. On September 23, 2005, the PRC government widened the daily trading band for Renminbi against non-U.S. dollar currencies from 1.5% to 3.0% to improve the flexibility of the new foreign exchange system. Since the adoption of these measures, the value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar has fluctuated on a daily basis within narrow ranges, but overall has further strengthened against the U.S. dollar. In June 2010, the Chinese government announced its intention to allow the Renminbi to fluctuate within the 2005 parameters. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to further liberalize its currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. The Renminbi may be revalued further against the U.S. dollar or other currencies, or may be permitted to enter into a full or limited free float, which may result in an appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar or other currencies. China’s legal system is different from those in some other countries. China is a civil law jurisdiction. Under the civil law system, prior court decisions may be cited as persuasive authority but do not have binding precedential effect. Although progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters, such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade, China’s legal system remains less developed than the legal systems in many other countries. Furthermore, because many laws, regulations and legal requirements have been recently adopted, their interpretation and enforcement by the courts and administrative agencies may involve uncertainties. Sometimes, different government departments may have different interpretations. Licenses and permits issued or granted by one government authority may be revoked by a higher government authority at a later time. Government authorities may decline to take action against unlicensed operators which may work to the disadvantage of licensed operators, including us. The PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which may not be published on a timely manner or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. We may even not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. Changes in China’s legal and regulatory framework, the promulgation of new laws and possible conflicts between national and provincial regulations could result in fines, the revocation of a business or other license, the restructuring of our ownership or the discontinuation of all, or a portion, of our business. In addition, any litigation in China may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 13 PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to inject capital into the PRC subsidiaries, limiting our subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE issued the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-raising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or “Notice 75,” on October 21, 2005, which became effective as of November 1, 2005 and the operating procedures in May 2007, collectively the SAFE Rules. According to the SAFE Rules, prior registration with the local SAFE branch is required for PRC residents to establish or to control an offshore company for the purposes of financing that offshore company with assets or equity interests in an onshore enterprise located in the PRC. An amendment to registration or filing with the local SAFE branch by such PRC resident is also required for the injection of equity interests or assets of an onshore enterprise in the offshore company or overseas funds raised by such offshore company, or any other material change involving a change in the capital of the offshore company. The SAFE rules define “PRC residents” to include both legal persons and natural persons who either hold legal PRC identification documents, or who habitually reside in China due to economic interests or needs. If any PRC resident fails to file its SAFE registration for an existing offshore enterprise, any dividends remitted by the onshore enterprise to its overseas parent after October 21, 2005 will be considered to be an evasion of foreign exchange purchase rules, and the payment of the dividend will be illegal. As a result, both the onshore enterprise and its actual controlling persons can be fined. In addition, failure to comply with the registration procedures may result in restrictions on the relevant onshore enterprise, including prohibitions on the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent or affiliate and capital inflow from the offshore enterprise. The PRC resident shareholders of the offshore enterprise may also be subject to penalties under Chinese foreign exchange administration regulations. To date, the required filings pursuant to SAFE Rules are underway for shareholders of Lizhan Environmental. Mr. Liu has completed his SAFE filing procedure. We have requested our shareholders and beneficial owners who may be subject to SAFE Rules to make the necessary applications, filings and amendments as required under SAFE Rules. We have advised these shareholders and beneficial owners to comply with the relevant requirements. However, we cannot provide any assurance that all of our shareholders and beneficial owners who may be PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or comply with other requirements required by SAFE Rules. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders or beneficial owners to make any required registrations or comply with other requirements may subject such shareholders or beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into or provide loans to our PRC subsidiaries, limit the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. In March 2007, SAFE promulgated the Detailed Rules for the Implementation of the Measures for the Administration of Individual Foreign Exchange, and the Operating Rules on the Foreign Exchange Administration of the Evolvement of Domestic Individuals in the Employee Stock Ownership Plans and Share Option Schemes of Overseas Listed Companies, or “Circular 78.” Under Circular 78, where PRC domestic individuals are involved in the employee stock ownership plans or share option schemes of overseas listed companies, such plans or schemes must be submitted to competent foreign exchange administration authorities for approval, and the PRC employees shall entrust its agent or the affiliates or branches of the overseas listed company to apply to competent authorities for purchasing certain amount of foreign exchange at certain times each year, in order to purchase the stock or exercise its option right under the employee stock ownership plans or the share option schemes within the amounts approved by the authorities. In addition, the PRC employees involved must declare the progress of such plans or schemes to the administration authorities periodically. All the proceeds obtained by such employees from the overseas listed company through the employee stock ownership plans or the share option schemes, or from sale of the shares of such overseas listed company, after deducting relevant fees and costs incurred overseas, shall be remitted to the domestic account of the employees in full amount. We have adopted the Lizhan Environmental Corporation 2010 Stock Option Plan. However, as of the date of this annual report, no employee share option has been granted. If we or our PRC employees fail to comply with the provisions of Circular 78, we and/or our PRC employees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions imposed by the SAFE or other PRC government authorities. If our PRC employees fail to obtain the approval from or make relevant registrations with SAFE or its local branches, it will prevent us from conducting the share option schemes or the stock ownership plans for our PRC employees. In addition, it may impose cost on us for obtaining the approval from SAFE or its local branches in connection with the foreign exchange registration. The discontinuation of any preferential tax treatment currently available to us and the increase in the enterprise income tax in the PRC could in each case result in a decrease in our profits and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Prior to January 1, 2008, the basic enterprise income tax rate for foreign invested enterprises in the PRC was 33.0%, while the PRC government provided various incentives, including reduced tax rates, to foreign-invested enterprises and domestic companies operating in a national level economic and technological development zone. In addition, Lizhan Textile qualifies for a tax holiday during which it is entitled to an exemption from enterprise income tax for two years commencing from its first profit-making year of operation and a 50% reduction of enterprise income tax for the following three calendar years. In connection therewith, Lizhan Textile was fully exempt from income tax in each of the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009 and has been subject to enterprise income tax at a reduced rate of 12.5% since the year ended December 31, 2009. The tax holiday expires on December 31, 2012. 14 On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress approved and promulgated a new tax law, the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or “EIT Law,” which took effect on January 1, 2008. Under the new tax law, foreign-invested enterprises and domestic companies are subject to a uniform tax rate of 25%. On December 26, 2007, the State Council issued the Notice of the State Council Concerning Implementation of Transitional Rules for Enterprise Income Tax Incentives, or “Circular 39.” Based on Circular 39, enterprises that enjoyed a preferential tax rate of 15% in accordance with previous laws, regulations and relevant regulatory documents are eligible for a graduated rate increase to 25% over a five-year transition period beginning January 1, 2008. For those enterprises which currently enjoy tax holidays, such tax holidays will continue until their expiration in accordance with previous tax laws, regulations and relevant regulatory documents. While the new tax law equalizes the tax rates for foreign-invested enterprises and domestic companies, preferential tax treatment would continue to be given to companies in certain encouraged sectors and to those classified as high and new technology enterprises enjoying special support from the state. We may not be able to continue receiving this preferential tax treatment after the tax holiday expires on December 31, 2012, which may cause an increase in our income tax expense, thereby reducing our net income and adversely affect our results of operations. Under the EIT Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of the PRC. Such classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes, although the dividends paid to one resident enterprise from another may qualify as “tax-exempt income.” The implementing rules of the EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. The EIT Law and its implementing rules are relatively new and ambiguous in terms of some definitions, requirements and detailed procedures, and currently no official interpretation or application of this new “resident enterprise” classification is available; therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income, as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Second, although under the EIT Law and its implementing rules, dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries through our sub-holding companies may qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to withholding tax. Finally, the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% PRC tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders and gains derived by our non-PRC shareholders from transferring our shares, if such income is considered PRC-sourced income by the relevant PRC authorities. Our PRC subsidiaries are held directly by Resources, which is an entity organized under the law of Hong Kong. According to Article 10 of the arrangement between Mainland China and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, or HKSAR, on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income, when a Hong Kong resident enterprise holds more than 25% percent of the shares of a company, the Hong Kong resident enterprise pays income tax amounting to 5% of the dividends paid. When a Hong Kong resident enterprise holds 25% or less of the shares of a company, the Hong Kong resident enterprise pays income tax amounting to no more than 10% of the dividends paid. If any such PRC taxes apply to our non-PRC shareholders, a non-PRC shareholder may be entitled to a reduced rate of PRC taxes under an applicable income tax treaty and/or a foreign tax credit against such shareholder’s domestic income tax liability (subject to applicable conditions and limitations). You should consult with your own tax advisors regarding the applicability of any such taxes, the effects of any applicable income tax treaties, and any available foreign tax credits. Changes in PRC government policy on foreign investment in China may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Both of our PRC subsidiaries are foreign investment enterprises. As foreign invested enterprises, our wholly owned subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on foreign investment imposed by PRC laws from time to time. For instance, under the Foreign Investment Industrial Guidance Catalogue, some industries are categorized as sectors which are encouraged, restricted or prohibited for foreign investment. According to the latest version of this Catalogue, our business does not belong to the prohibited or the restricted category. As this Catalogue is updated every few years, there can be no assurance that the PRC government will not change its policies in a manner that would cause part or all of our business to fall within the restricted or prohibited categories. If any of our business activities become prohibited, or if we cannot obtain approval from relevant approval authorities to engage in business activities which become restricted for foreign investors, we may be forced to sell or restructure our business activities which have become restricted or prohibited for foreign investment. If we are forced to adjust our corporate structure or business line as a result of changes in government policy on foreign investment, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 15 Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. The Renminbi is currently freely convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, our PRC subsidiaries may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions,” including payment of dividends to Resources, without the approval of the SAFE. Our PRC subsidiaries may also retain foreign exchange in its current account, subject to a ceiling approved by the SAFE, to satisfy foreign exchange liabilities or to pay dividends. However, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC governmental authorities will not limit or eliminate our PRC subsidiaries’ abilities to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenues will be denominated in Renminbi, the existing and any future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize capital generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside of China, if we were to have any in the future, or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account are subject to limitations and require registration with or approval by the relevant PRC governmental authorities. In particular, if we finance our PRC subsidiaries by foreign currency loans, those loans cannot exceed certain statutory limits and must be registered with the SAFE, and if we finance our PRC subsidiaries by capital contributions using, for instance, proceeds from our initial public offering, those capital contributions must be approved by the local authority, such as Tongxiang Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation Bureau and Zhejiang Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation Bureau. In addition, because of the regulatory issues related to foreign currency loans to, and foreign investment in, domestic PRC enterprises, we may not be able to finance our PRC operating companies’ operations by loans or capital contributions. We cannot assure you that we can obtain these governmental registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all. These limitations could affect the ability of these entities to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, and could adversely affect our business and financial conditions. China’s regulation of loans and direct investment by non-Chinese holding companies to Chinese entities may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds of our recent initial public offering to make loans or additional capital contributions to our Chinese operating subsidiaries, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. In utilizing the proceeds of our recent initial public offering, as a non-Chinese holding company of Chinese operating subsidiaries, we may make loans to our Chinese subsidiaries, or we may make additional capital contributions to our Chinese subsidiaries. Any loans we make to our Chinese subsidiaries are subject to regulations in China. For example, loans by us to our Chinese subsidiaries, which are foreign-invested enterprises, to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with SAFE or its local counterparts. We may also decide to finance our subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by China’s Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. We may not be able to obtain these government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future capital contributions by us to our Chinese subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such approvals, our ability to use the proceeds of the offering and to capitalize our operations in China may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any failure to comply with PRC environmental laws may require us to incur significant costs. We carry on our business in an industry that is subject to PRC environmental protection laws and regulations. These laws and regulations require enterprises engaged in manufacturing and construction that may cause environmental waste to adopt effective measures to control such waste. In addition, such enterprises are required to pay fines, or to cease operations entirely under extreme circumstances, should they discharge waste substances. The Chinese government may also change the existing laws or regulations or impose additional or stricter laws or regulations, compliance with which may cause us to incur significant capital expenditures, which we may be unable to pass on to our customers through higher prices for our products. 16 We must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits companies whose shares are listed on a U.S. securities exchange from making prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time to time in mainland China. If any of our non-US listed competitors that are not subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act engage in these practices, they may receive preferential treatment and secure business from government officials in a way that is unavailable to us. Furthermore, although we inform our personnel that such practices are illegal, we cannot assure you that our employees or other agents will not engage in illegal conduct for which we might be held responsible under US law. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties. Because our funds are held in banks that do not provide insurance, the failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could affect our ability to continue in business. Banks and other financial institutions in the PRC do not provide insurance for funds held on deposit. As a result, in the event of a bank failure, we may not have access to funds on deposit. Depending upon the amount of money we maintain in a bank that fails, our inability to have access to our cash could impair our operations, and, if we are not able to access funds to pay our suppliers, employees and other creditors, we may be unable to continue in business. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. The Chinese central government and local governments have exercised, and continue to exercise, substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in national or local laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, the environment, labor and employee benefits and land use rights. The central or local governments may impose stricter regulations or stricter interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we hold in Chinese properties. In addition, if the PRC government were to eliminate export processing zones, restrict the transportation of goods in and out of the country, adopt policies favoring competitors or impose other restrictions on our operations, the impact may be significant. A reversal of current liberalizations of foreign exchange controls by the Chinese government could be disruptive and costly to our export sales. If relations between the United States and China worsen, investors may be unwilling to hold or buy our stock and our stock price may decrease. At various times during recent years, the United States and China have had significant disagreements over political and economic issues. Controversies may arise in the future between these two countries. Any political or trade controversies between the United States and China, whether or not directly related to our business, could reduce the price of our ordinary shares. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares The market price for our ordinary shares may be volatile. The market price for our ordinary shares is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, including the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and revisions to our expected results; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · conditions in the markets for our products; 17 · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of companies specializing in our industry or our customers or their industries; · announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · addition or departure of our senior management and key personnel; · fluctuations of exchange rates between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar; · litigation related to our intellectual property; · release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares; and · sales or perceived potential sales of our ordinary shares. In addition, the securities market has from time to time, and to an even greater degree since the last quarter of 2007, experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. Furthermore, in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, shareholders have frequently instituted securities class action litigation against that company. Litigation of this kind could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. We are a Cayman Islands Company and because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than U.S. law, you may have less protection of your shareholders rights than you would under U.S. law. We are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law (2010 Revision) of the Cayman Islands (as amended from time to time) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against our directors and us, the rights of minority shareholders to institute actions, and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the latter of which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. jurisdictions, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. Furthermore, shareholders of Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court in the United States. As a result, our public shareholders may have more difficulties in protecting their interests based on actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. company. As a result of all of the above, our shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, our directors or principal shareholders than they would as a shareholder of a U.S. company. Your ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and executive officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, will be limited. We are not incorporated in the United States. We conduct our business outside the United States, and substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. Most of our directors and executive officers are non-U.S. citizens and reside, and substantially all of the assets of those persons are located, outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under U.S. securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands or the PRC may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and executive officers. For more information regarding the relevant laws of the Cayman Islands and the PRC, see “Enforceability of Civil Liabilities.” 18 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected. Our reporting obligations as a public company place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. We are a relatively young company with limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal controls and procedures. In addition, we must implement financial and disclosure control procedures and corporate governance practices that enable us to comply, on a stand alone basis, with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, rules. For example, we need to further develop accounting and financial capabilities, including the establishment of an internal audit function and development of documentation related to internal control policies and procedures. Failure to quickly establish the necessary controls and procedures would make it difficult to comply with SEC rules and regulations with respect to internal control and financial reporting. We need to take further actions to continue to improve our internal controls. If we are unable to implement solutions to any weaknesses in our existing internal controls and procedures, or if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls in the future, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and investor confidence and the market price of our ordinary shares may be adversely impacted. We are in the process of instituting changes to our internal controls and management systems to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We may also engage external Sarbanes-Oxley consultants to advise us on Sarbanes-Oxley compliance issues. Section 404 requires us to perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting and file annual management assessments of their effectiveness with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The management assessment to be filed is required to include a certification of our internal controls by our chief executive officer and chief financial officer. In addition to satisfying requirements of Section 404, we may also make improvements to our management information system to computerize certain manual controls, establish a comprehensive procedures manual for U.S. GAAP financial reporting, and increase the headcount in the accounting and internal audit functions with professional qualifications and experience in accounting, financial reporting and auditing under U.S. GAAP. Our auditors will be required to attest to our evaluation of internal controls over financial reporting. Unless we successfully design and implement changes to our internal controls and management systems, or if we fail to maintain the adequacy of these controls as such standards are modified or amended from time to time, we may not be able to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a result, our auditors may be unable to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. This could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and result in a loss of public confidence in our management, which could, among other things, adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares and our ability to raise additional capital. We may not be able to pay any dividends on our ordinary shares. Under Cayman Islands law, we may only pay dividends out of our profits or our share premium account subject to our ability to service our debts as they become due in the ordinary course of business. Our ability to pay dividends will therefore depend on our ability to generate sufficient profits. We cannot give any assurance that we will declare dividends of any amounts, at any rate or at all in the future. We have not paid any dividends in the past. Future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors, subject to the approval of our shareholders, and will depend upon our results of operations, our cash flows, our financial condition, the payment of our subsidiaries of cash dividends to us, our capital needs, future prospects and other factors that our directors may deem appropriate. You should refer to the “Dividend Policy” section in this annual report for additional information regarding our current dividend policy for additional legal restrictions on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us. We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company in the United States, which could reduce our profits. We are subject to the reporting obligations of the SEC, which many consider to be more stringent, rigorous and expensive than operating a privately held company. In particular: · We incur additional costs in order to comply with U.S. corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules implemented by the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA. We expect these requirements will increase our legal compliance costs and will make some compliance activities more time consuming and costly. 19 · We incur additional costs in implementing and verifying internal control procedures as required by section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations thereunder. We expect these requirements will increase our accounting and financial costs. · We are required under U.S. rules and regulations to retain our independent directors that serve on our board of directors. We may encounter difficulty in retaining, or in the future attracting, qualified independent directors to serve on our board of directors and our audit committee, in particular. We will also incur substantial costs to maintain directors and officers insurance. If we fail to retain, or attract as necessary, independent directors, we may be subject to SEC enforcement proceedings and delisting by the securities exchange on which our ordinary shares are listed at the time. As a result, we will incur greater costs for legal, accounting and other services and, in turn, will increase our operating expenses and reduce our profits. Mr. Liu, our Chairman, has the ability to exercise significant control over us, and whose interests may conflict with your interests as a shareholder. Mr. Jianfeng Liu, who is our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns 62.5% of our outstanding ordinary shares. As a result, Mr. Liu has the ability to exercise significant influence over our management, including over matters requiring shareholder approval or approval by our Board of Directors. This could delay, defer or prevent a change in control, impede a merger, consolidation, take-over or other business combination involving us, or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. In addition, Mr. Liu has entered into several related party transactions with our company, including guaranteeing our banks loans, transferring patents to us, purchasing our ordinary shares and selling materials to us. See Item 7 below. Conflicts of interest between these dual relationships may arise. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, Mr. Liu will act in the best interests of our company or that conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. If we are classified as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, if for any taxable year, after applying certain look-through rules, 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to our shareholders who are U.S. taxpayers, including gain realized on the disposition of our ordinary shares being treated as ordinary income rather than capital gain income and in punitive interest charges being applied to such sales proceeds. Rules similar to those applicable to dispositions apply to amounts treated as “excess distributions.” We do not believe that we were a PFIC for the years ended September 30, 2009 or September 30, 2010 and currently anticipate that we will not be a PFIC for the current fiscal year based upon our estimates of the values of our assets. However, because PFIC status is based on the composition of our income and assets for the entire taxable year, it is not possible to determine whether we will become a PFIC for the current year until after the close of the year. Therefore, we may become a PFIC for the year ending September 30, 2011 or in any future taxable year. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares. See “Taxation — U.S. Taxation — Tax Consequences if We Are a Passive Foreign Investment Company.” If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our company or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our ordinary shares, the price of our ordinary shares could decline. The trading market for our ordinary shares will rely in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our company. We do not control these analysts. The price of our ordinary shares could decline if one or more equity analysts downgrade our ordinary shares or if they issue other unfavorable commentary, or cease publishing reports, about us or our company. 20 ITEM 