ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. These risk factors should be considered along with the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause our actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The following discussion is not an all-inclusive listing of risks, although we believe these are the more material risks that we face. If any of the following occur, our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be negatively affected. 18 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business The production of rare earth products is a capital-intensive business and our ongoing modernization and expansion efforts at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility to reach initial planned production rates by the end of the third quarter of 2012 and to expand our capacity to produce, if customer demand warrants, up to approximately 40,000 mt of REO per year by mid-2013 will require the commitment of substantial resources. Any unanticipated costs or delays associated with our ongoing modernization and expansion efforts at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our ongoing modernization and expansion efforts at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility to reach initial planned production rates by the end of the third quarter of 2012 and to expand our capacity to produce, if warranted by customer demand, up to approximately 40,000 mt of REO per year by mid-2013 require the commitment of substantial resources for operating expenses and capital expenditures. We expect to incur total capital expenditures of approximately $895 million, excluding capitalized interest, to implement Project Phoenix Phase 1 and Project Phoenix Phase 2. Our capital expenditures for Project Phoenix Phase 1 and Project Phoenix Phase 2 totaled to $388.5 million on an accrual basis in 2011, excluding capitalized interest. Our estimated expenses may increase in subsequent years as consultants, personnel and equipment associated with advancing development and commercial production are added. The progress of our modernization and expansion efforts at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility and the amounts and timing of expenditures will depend in part on the following: •the replacement of a significant portion of the existing process, plant and equipment that consists of aging or outdated facilities and equipment, retooling and development and the preparation of the mine pit for renewed production of ore; •maintaining required federal, state and local permits; •the results of consultants' analysis and recommendations; •negotiating contracts for equipment, earthwork, construction, equipment installation, labor and completing infrastructure and construction work; •negotiating sales and off-take contracts for our planned production; •the execution of any joint venture agreements or similar arrangements with strategic partners; and •other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Most of these activities require significant lead times and must be advanced concurrently. Any unanticipated costs or delays associated with our ongoing modernization and expansion efforts at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations and could require us to seek additional capital, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. The actual amount of capital required for the expansion and modernization of our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility may vary materially from our current estimates, in which case we would need to raise additional funds, which may delay completion and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The anticipated funding required to complete the expansion and modernization of our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, including Project Phoenix Phase 2, is based on certain estimates and assumptions we have made about the additional facilities, equipment, labor, permits and other factors required to complete the project. If any of these estimates or assumptions change, the actual timing and amount of capital required to complete Project Phoenix Phase 1 and Project Phoenix Phase 2 may vary materially from what we anticipate. Additional funds may be required in the event of significant 19 Table of Contents departures from our current expansion and modernization plan, unforeseen delays, cost overruns, engineering design changes or other unanticipated expenses. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available to us, or, if available, that it can be obtained on a timely basis and on commercially acceptable terms. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement Project Phoenix Phase 1 and Project Phoenix Phase 2 within our current timetable, that the actual costs of the capacity expansion will not exceed our current estimated costs or that we will be able to secure off-take agreements for the incremental production capacity, and we cannot provide any assurance as to the actual operating costs once we have completed the capacity expansion. Our Board of Directors, or Board, approved Project Phoenix Phase 2 in January 2011. Following the completion of Project Phoenix Phase 2 construction, which we expect to be by the end of the fourth quarter of 2012, we expect to have the ability to produce, if warranted by customer demand, up to approximately 40,000 mt of REO per year by mid-2013 at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, or approximately double the amount we expect to be able to produce upon completion of Project Phoenix Phase 1 . We have commenced work on Project Phoenix Phase 2 as we are working on Project Phoenix Phase 1, and there is no assurance that our work on Project Phoenix Phase 2 will not interfere with our completion of Project Phoenix Phase 1. In certain cases, including separations and power, we will need to install additional capacity. Because we will have expenditures on Project Phoenix Phase 2 before completion of Project Phoenix Phase 1, any funding insufficiency for the capacity expansion could also impact completion of our initial plan. Also, our total estimate of capital expenditures of $895 million, excluding capitalized interest, for the completion of Project Phoenix Phase 1 and Project Phoenix Phase 2 has not been independently reviewed, and actual costs could vary significantly. There is no assurance that we will be able to secure additional funding that may be required to complete Project Phoenix Phase 2 on terms acceptable to us or at all. We do not believe we will need to obtain additional permits for Project Phoenix Phase 1 or Project Phoenix Phase 2, other than air and certain building permits. However there is no assurance that we will not in the future learn of permits that we will be required to obtain or existing permits that we will be required to modify. We have not yet performed a detailed study of expected operating costs for Project Phoenix Phase 2, and we have not yet commissioned SRK Consulting or any other expert to prepare an external model or study of operating costs. While we have not identified any reason to believe that there will be any per unit increase in operating costs under Project Phoenix Phase 2 as compared to Project Phoenix Phase 1 (assuming we are able to sell all of our capacity under Project Phoenix Phase 1), we cannot provide any assurances as to the actual operating costs, and such costs could be higher. In addition, we have not secured off-take commitments for the incremental production from Project Phoenix Phase 2, and we cannot assure that we will secure such commitments. Any failure to successfully implement Project Phoenix Phase 1 or Project Phoenix Phase 2 due to insufficient funding, delays or unanticipated costs, or to realize the anticipated benefits of Project Phoenix Phase 1 or Project Phoenix Phase 2, including securing off-take commitments for the incremental production, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unsuccessful in raising the necessary capital to execute our current business plan. Under our current business plan, we intend to spend approximately $895 million in the aggregate, excluding capitalized interest, on capital expenditures to implement Project Phoenix Phase 1 and Project Phoenix Phase 2. The $895 million includes an additional $114 million in acceleration costs approved by the Board in October 2011. If the assumptions on which we based our estimated capital expenditures of $895 million change or are inaccurate, we may require additional funding. We may also 20 Table of Contents require additional financing as part of our joint venture with Mitsubishi and Daido to manufacture NdFeB permanent rare earth magnets in Japan, which is not included in our estimated capital expenditures of $895 million. Our total estimated capital expenditures of $895 million also do not include corporate, selling, general and administrative expenses, which we estimate to be an additional $50 million to $60 million per year, and capitalized interest. We have spent approximately $419.9 million, on an accrual basis, through December 31, 2011 on capital expenditures to implement Project Phoenix Phase 1 and Project Phoenix Phase 2, excluding capitalized interest. We expect to finance these capital expenditures, our selling, general and administrative expenses, as well as our working capital requirements with our cash on hand from our initial public offering, our offering of mandatory convertible preferred stock, our private placement of convertible senior notes and anticipated cash flows from operations, combined with traditional debt financing and project financing. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in raising the incremental capital needed to fully execute our business plan on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In January 2012, we entered into an agreement with Molibdenos y Metales S.A., or Molymet, pursuant to which Molymet has agreed to purchase $390 million of our common stock. The consummation of the offering, which we anticipate to occur in the second quarter of 2012, remains subject to the satisfaction of certain customary closing conditions, including the receipt of certain governmental regulatory approvals. Proceeds from the Molymet investment will be retained by us for general corporate purposes and are expected to be used to finance our future growth, including pursuant to our vertical supply chain integration business model. We have limited sources of revenue from our operations, and in order to modernize and expand our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, we may need to obtain further debt and/or equity financing in addition to or in place of the potential financing arrangements identified above. Our growth depends on the modernization and expansion of our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, which is our only rare earth mining facility. Our only rare earth mining facility at this time is our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. Our continued viability is based on successfully implementing our strategy, including completion of Project Phoenix Phase 1 and Project Phoenix Phase 2 in accordance with our expected timeframe. The deterioration or destruction of any part of our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility may significantly hinder our ability to reach or maintain full planned production rates within the expected time frame or at all. If we are unsuccessful in reaching and maintaining full planned production rates for REOs at the Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, within expected time frames or at all, we may not be able to build a sustainable or profitable business. We may not successfully establish or maintain collaborative, joint venture and licensing arrangements, or establish new ones, which could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our rare earth products. A key element of our business strategy is to utilize vertical integration through further downstream processing of our REOs into rare earth metal alloys and finished magnets for clean-energy, high-technology and defense applications. Our acquisitions of Molycorp Sillamäe and Molycorp Tolleson, and our joint venture agreement with Mitsubishi and Daido, reflect this strategy. To implement this "mine-to-magnets" vertical integration successfully, we will need to form other joint ventures with existing magnet producers for the final production of finished rare earth magnets. In addition, other licenses that may be necessary for some of these downstream processing steps have not yet been obtained. Any failure to establish or maintain collaborative, joint venture or licensing arrangements for the production of downstream products on favorable terms could adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition or ability to develop and commercialize downstream rare earth products. 21 Table of Contents We may not be able to convert existing letters of intent with customers for the sale of REO products into binding contracts, or meet the conditions necessary for customers to commence purchasing under existing contracts, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We are working to establish stable revenue streams for the rare earth minerals and products we manufacture at the Molycorp Mountain Pass, Molycorp Sillamäe and Molycorp Tolleson facilities. Pursuant to a contract with one of our largest customers, we are supplying a significant amount of our REOs, primarily lanthanum concentrate, through mid-2012 at market-based prices subject to a ceiling based on market prices at June 1, 2010, and a floor. This contract was amended effective July 1, 2011 to increase the price ceiling. Under a second contract, we agreed to supply this same customer with approximately 75% of our lanthanum product production per year, following completion of Project Phoenix Phase 1 at market-based prices, subject to a floor, for a three-year period commencing upon the achievement of expected annual production rates under Project Phoenix Phase 1, which may be extended at the customer's option for an additional three-year period. In February 2012, this same customer exercised a volume reduction right that lowers its purchase obligation for lanthanum products from approximately 75% to approximately 58% of our lanthanum production per year, following completion of Project Phoenix Phase 1. Accordingly, we intend to secure other customer contracts for our lanthanum products in replacement of the volume reduction from our current customer. As of December 31, 2011, we have secured 58% of Project Phoenix Phase 1 production, and have allocated an additional 20% to production of XSORBX®, for a total of 78% of the 19,050 metric tons of REO that we intend to produce annually under Project Phoenix Phase 1 at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. The lanthanum contract volume reduction described above represents approximately 6% of our expected Project Phoenix Phase 1 production. Prior to commencing full production, we intend to enter into other short-term sales contracts and into long-term sales contracts with existing and new customers for amounts not in excess of our actual planned production under Project Phoenix Phase 1 and Project Phoenix Phase 2, respectively. However, there can be no assurance that these customers will enter into binding sales contracts for the same amount of REO products as in the letters of intent, or at all, or that we will secure off-take commitments for the incremental capacity provided by our capacity expansion plan. The failure to enter into binding contracts, or the failure to meet the conditions necessary for customers to commence purchasing under existing agreements, may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of significant customers, or significant changes in prices or other terms with significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. There is a limited market for certain products we produce and we depend on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our consolidated annual sales. Molycorp Mountain Pass' sales to Hitachi Metals. Ltd. in 2011 accounted for approximately 23% of consolidated sales. Molycorp Mountain Pass' sales to four of its customers, net of intercompany sales, represented in total approximately 77% of Molycorp Mountain Pass's sales in 2011. Sales to three of Molycorp Sillamäe's customers from April 1, 2011 (the acquisition date) to December 31, 2011, represented in total approximately 45% of Molycorp Sillamäe's sales for that period. Molycorp Tolleson's sales to Santoku Corporation for the period from April 15, 2011 (the acquisition date) to December 31, 2011, were approximately 12% of consolidated sales and approximately 86% of Molycorp Tolleson's sales for that period. If our total sales to these customers are reduced or if the prices we realize from these customers are reduced before we are able to reduce costs, our operating results would likely be materially adversely affected. Consequently, significant changes in volume, prices or other terms with these 22 Table of Contents customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in demand for, and prices of, rare earth products. Because our sole source of revenue is the sale of rare earth minerals and products, changes in demand for, and the market price of, rare earth minerals and products could significantly affect our profitability. The value and price of our common and preferred stock and our financial results may be adversely affected by declines in the prices of rare earth minerals and products. Rare earth minerals and product prices may fluctuate and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control such as interest rates, exchange rates, inflation or deflation, fluctuation in the relative value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies on the world market, global and regional supply and demand for rare earth minerals and products, and the political and economic conditions of countries that produce rare earth minerals and products. As a result of the global economic crisis, rare earth product prices declined by approximately 50% between 2008 and the end of the third quarter of 2009. Similarly, there can be no assurance that the increases in market prices, as seen during 2010 and most of 2011, will be sustained in future periods. Average prices for lanthanum oxide and cerium oxide have decreased by approximately 50% during the second half of 2011 due, in part, to a reduction in reported speculative buying of rare earth materials in China. Protracted periods of low prices for rare earth minerals and products could significantly reduce revenues and the availability of required development funds in the future. This could cause substantial reductions to, or a suspension of, REO production operations, impair asset values and reduce our proven and probable rare earth ore reserves. Demand for our products may be impacted by demand for downstream products incorporating rare earths, including hybrid and electric vehicles, wind power equipment and other clean technology products, as well as demand in the general automotive and electronic industries. Lack of growth in these markets may adversely affect the demand for our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In contrast, extended periods of high commodity prices may create economic dislocations that may be destabilizing to rare earth minerals supply and demand and ultimately to the broader markets. Periods of high rare earth mineral market prices generally are beneficial to our financial performance. However, strong rare earth mineral prices, as well as real or perceived disruptions in the supply of rare earth minerals, also create economic pressure to identify or create alternate technologies that ultimately could depress future long-term demand for rare earth minerals and products, and at the same time may incentivize development of otherwise marginal mining properties. For example, automobile manufacturers have recently announced plans to develop motors for electric and hybrid cars that do not require rare earth metals due to concerns about the available supply of rare earths. If the automobile industry or other industries reduce their reliance on rare earth products, the resulting change in demand could have a material adverse effect on our business. Conditions in the rare earth industry have been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile, which could have a material impact on our company. Conditions in the rare earth industry have been extremely volatile, and prices, as well as supply and demand, have been significantly impacted by a number of factors, principally changes in economic conditions and demand for rare earth materials and changes, or perceived changes, in Chinese quotas for export of rare earth materials. As a result of the global economic crisis, rare earth product prices declined by approximately 50% between 2008 and the end of the third quarter of 2009. According to Metal-Pages, from the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2009 through the end of 2011, average prices for rare earths have risen by approximately 1,100%. Furthermore, over the same period, average prices for some of the most common rare earths (cerium oxide, lanthanum oxide, neodymium oxide, and 23 Table of Contents praseodymium oxide) have risen by more than 1,000%. Average prices for lanthanum oxide and cerium oxide have decreased by approximately 50% during the second half of 2011 due, in part, to a reduction in reported speculative buying of rare earth materials in China. If conditions in our industry remain volatile, our stock price may continue to exhibit volatility as well. In particular, if prices or demand for rare earths were to decline, our stock price would likely decline, and this could also impair our ability to obtain remaining capital needed for Project Phoenix Phase 1 and Project Phoenix Phase 2 and our ability to find purchasers for our products at prices acceptable to us. We face a variety of risks associated with acquiring and integrating new business operations that could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2011, we acquired Molycorp Sillamäe in order to increase our production capacity for REOs and rare earth metals, and acquired Molycorp Tolleson in order to provide us with the capability to immediately begin manufacturing and selling rare earth alloys for the production of NdFeB and SmCo magnets, as well as a variety of other specialty alloys and products. We may in the future pursue other strategic acquisitions that we believe would expand our product offerings and capabilities or complement our business. We have limited experience making such acquisitions. Any acquisition that we make will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of businesses. The process of integrating acquired businesses, products or technologies may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. We may have difficulty integrating and assimilating the operations and personnel of any acquired companies, realizing anticipated synergies and maximizing the financial and strategic position of the combined enterprise. We may incur costs necessary to reorganize, expand or otherwise modify existing operations to meet future production needs, and we may also incur closure, demolition and carrying costs for portions of properties, for which we have no operational uses. We may also have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, policies and controls across the organization. The process of integrating acquired businesses may also result in a diversion of management's attention and cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, our activities. Additionally, any acquisition that we make may result in the assumption of material liabilities. Businesses and properties we acquire may be in an unexpected condition and may subject us to increased costs and liabilities, including environmental liabilities. The costs and liabilities associated with known risks may be greater than expected, and we may assume unknown liabilities, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Foreign acquisitions involve risks in addition to those mentioned above, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. As a result of these risks, the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions may not be fully realized, if at all, and the acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we finance the necessary capital to execute our current business plan through a securities offering or debt financing, you may experience dilution in the event of an equity financing, or we may be highly leveraged in the event of a debt financing. We may finance the necessary capital to execute our current business plan, including our vertical supply chain integration business model, through a public or private offering of securities or debt financing. In January 2012, we entered into an agreement with Molymet pursuant to which Molymet has agreed to purchase $390 million of our common stock. The consummation of the offering, which we anticipate to occur in the second quarter of 2012, remains subject to the satisfaction of certain customary closing conditions, including the receipt of certain governmental regulatory approvals. Proceeds from the Molymet investment will be retained by us for general corporate purposes and are expected to be used to finance our future growth, including pursuant to our vertical supply chain integration business model. 24 Table of Contents An equity offering may have the effect of diluting the proportionate equity interest and voting power of holders of our common stock. A debt financing may result in us being highly leveraged, and our level of indebtedness could restrict our ability to execute our current business plan. Our business will be adversely affected if we do not successfully implement new processing technologies and capabilities. Our processing technologies and capabilities are key components of our competitive strengths and are expected to contribute to low operating costs and increasing the life of the ore body at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. In the second quarter of 2010, we began to process bastnasite concentrate from our stockpiles in an effort to significantly improve these technologies and capabilities and optimize recovery rates. Although this effort has been successful at pilot-scale level with over 95% recovery, we may not be able to scale the new technology and recovery rates to commercial levels, or may not be able to do so by the end of 2012, as planned. We are also working to optimize other steps in our production process. Any failure may affect our ability to achieve the expected benefits of the new technologies and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The rare earths mining and processing markets are capital intensive and competitive. Our Chinese competitors may have greater financial resources, as well as other strategic advantages to maintain, improve and possibly expand their facilities. Additionally, the Chinese producers have historically been able to produce at relatively low costs due to domestic economic factors. Even upon successful implementation of the new processing technologies and capabilities at the Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, if we are not able to achieve anticipated costs of production, then any strategic advantages that our competitors may have over us, such as lower labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The success of our business will depend, in part, on the establishment of new uses and markets for rare earth products. The success of our business will depend, in part, on the establishment of new markets by us or third parties for certain rare earth products that may be in low demand. Although we are developing rare earth products for use in NdFeB magnets, which are used in critical existing and emerging technologies, such as hybrid and electric vehicles, wind power turbines and compact fluorescent lighting, the success of our business depends on creating new markets and successfully commercializing rare earth products in existing and emerging markets. Any unexpected costs or delays in the commercialization of any of the foregoing products and applications could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. An increase in the global supply of rare earth products, dumping and predatory pricing by our competitors may materially adversely affect our profitability. The pricing and demand for our products is affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including growth of economic development and the global supply and demand for REO products. According to IMCOA, it is estimated that China accounted for approximately 94% of global REO production in 2011. China also dominates the manufacture of metals and NdFeB magnets from rare earths, a capacity that is not currently found in the United States. Once we reach full planned production rates for REOs and other planned downstream products, the increased competition may lead our competitors to engage in predatory pricing behavior. Any increase in the amount of rare earth products exported from other nations and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of potential market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our 25 Table of Contents profitability. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to compete effectively against current and future competitors. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. If we fail to adequately enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, our business may be harmed. Much of the technology used in the markets in which we compete is protected by patents and trade secrets, and our commercial success will depend in significant part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and trade secret protection for our products and methods. To compete in these markets, we rely on a combination of trade secret protection, nondisclosure and licensing agreements, patents and trademarks to establish and protect our proprietary intellectual property rights, including our proprietary rare earth production processes that are not patented. We also have a proven technology and product development group and as of December 31, 2011, we held 94 issued and pending U.S. patents and patent applications, and 172 issued and pending foreign patents and patent applications. We intend to rely on patented products, such as XSORBX®, and related licensing agreements to establish proprietary markets for low demand REEs. These intellectual property rights may be challenged or infringed upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new license agreements with third-party owners of intellectual property on reasonable terms. In addition, our intellectual property may be subject to infringement or other unauthorized use outside of the United States. In such case, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights by legal recourse or otherwise may be limited, particularly in countries where laws or enforcement practices are undeveloped or do not recognize or protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights or our inability to preserve existing intellectual property rights could adversely impact our competitive position and results of operations. The loss of our patents could also reduce the value of the related products. In addition, the cost to litigate infringements of our patents, or the cost to defend ourselves against patent infringement actions by others, could be substantial. Proprietary trade secrets and unpatented know-how are also very important to our business. We rely on trade secrets to protect certain aspects of our technology, especially where we do not believe that patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our confidential information to competitors, and confidentiality agreements may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential or proprietary information. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. We may not be able to obtain additional patents and the legal protection afforded by any additional patents may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Our ability to obtain additional patents is uncertain and the legal protection afforded by these patents is limited and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. In addition, the specific content required of patents and patent applications that are necessary to support and interpret patent claims is highly uncertain due to the complex nature of the relevant legal, scientific and factual issues. Changes in either patent laws or interpretations of patent laws in the United States or elsewhere may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. Even if patents are issued regarding our products and processes, our competitors may challenge the validity of those patents. Patents also will not protect our products and processes if competitors devise ways of making products without infringing our patents. 26 Table of Contents If we infringe, or are accused of infringing, the intellectual property rights of third parties, it may increase our costs or prevent us from being able to sell our existing products or commercialize new products. There is a risk that we may infringe, or may be accused of infringing, the proprietary rights of third parties under patents and pending patent applications belonging to third parties that may exist in the United States and elsewhere in the world that relate to our rare earth products and processes. Because the patent application process can take several years to complete, there may be currently pending applications that may later result in issued patents that cover our products and processes. In addition, our products and processes may infringe existing patents. Defending ourselves against third-party claims, including litigation in particular, would be costly and time consuming and would divert management's attention from our business, which could lead to delays in our expansion and modernization efforts. If third parties are successful in their claims, we might have to pay substantial damages or take other actions that are adverse to our business. As a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we might: •be prohibited from, or delayed in, selling or licensing some of our products or using some of our processes unless the patent holder licenses the patent to us, which it is not required to do; •be required to pay substantial royalties or grant a cross license to our patents to another patent holder; or •be required to redesign a product or process so it does not infringe a third party's patent, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds and time. In addition, we could be subject to claims that our employees, or we, have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of third parties. If we are unable to resolve claims that may be brought against us by third parties related to their intellectual property rights on terms acceptable to us, we may be precluded from offering some of our products or using some of our processes. Power shortages at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility may temporarily delay mining and processing operations and increase costs, which may materially adversely impact our business. Due to its position on the regional electric grid, our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility faces occasional power shortages during peak periods. Instability in electrical supply in past years has caused sporadic outages and brownouts and higher costs. Such outages and brownouts have had a negative impact on production. We are currently installing a natural gas powered co-generation power plant as part of our modernization and expansion of our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility to reduce energy costs at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility as well as minimize or eliminate our reliance on the regional electric power grid. If the installation of the co-generation power plant is significantly delayed, we will remain subject to the effects of occasional power outages and brownouts and could experience temporary interruptions of mining and processing operations. We then may be unable to fill customer orders in a timely manner and may be subject to higher power costs at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. As a result, our revenue could be adversely impacted and our relationships with our customers could suffer, adversely impacting our ability to generate future revenue. In addition, if power to our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility is disrupted during certain phases of our REO extraction process, we may incur significant expenses that may adversely affect our business. Increasing costs or limited access to raw materials may adversely affect our profitability. We use significant amounts of hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide as chemicals to process REOs. We ultimately intend to produce our own hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. The technology we are developing to internally produce hydrochloric 27 Table of Contents acid and sodium hydroxide has not yet been implemented at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. Accordingly, we purchase hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide in the open market and, as a result, we could be subject to significant volatility in the cost or availability of these chemicals. We may not be able to pass increased prices for these chemicals through to our customers in the form of price increases. A significant increase in the price, or decrease in the availability, of these chemicals before we produce them on site could materially increase our operating costs and adversely affect our profit margins from quarter to quarter. Fluctuations in transportation costs or disruptions in transportation services could increase competition or impair our ability to supply rare earth minerals or products to our customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We transport cerium, lanthanum, neodymium, praseodymium and didymium oxide products from our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility to our Molycorp Sillamäe and Molycorp Tolleson facilities where we produce rare earth metals and alloys. Finding affordable and dependable transportation is important because it allows us to supply customers, third parties under tolling agreements and our operating facilities around the world. Labor disputes, derailments, adverse weather conditions or other environmental events and changes to rail or ocean freight systems could interrupt or limit available transport services, which could result in customer dissatisfaction and loss of sales potential and could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We must process REOs to exacting specifications in order to provide customers with a consistently high quality product. An inability to perfect the mineral extraction process to meet individual customer specifications may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We process REOs to meet customer needs and specifications and to provide customers with a consistently high quality product and a purity higher than previously achieved in prior mining operations at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. An inability to perfect the mineral extraction process to meet individual customer specifications may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, customer needs and specifications may change with time. Any delay or failure in developing processes to meet changing customer needs and specifications may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Diminished access to water may adversely affect our operations. Processing of REOs Molycorp Mountain Pass requires significant amounts of water. The technology we are developing at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility to significantly reduce our need for fresh water, including the proprietary production of our own hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide from waste water at our own chlor-alkali plant, has not yet been constructed. Any decrease or disruption in our available water supply until this technology is successfully developed may have a material adverse effect on our operations and our financial condition or results of operations. Inaccuracies in our estimates of REO reserves and resource deposits could result in lower than expected revenues and higher than expected costs. We base our REO reserve and resource estimates on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by outside firms, which are reviewed by our engineers and geologists. Ore reserve estimates, however, are necessarily imprecise and depend to some extent on statistical inferences drawn from available drilling data, which may prove unreliable. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of REO reserves and non-reserve REO deposits and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates 28 Table of Contents of economically recoverable REO reserves necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, all of which may vary considerably from actual results, such as: •geological and mining conditions and/or effects from prior mining that may not be fully identified by available data or that may differ from experience; •assumptions concerning future prices of rare earth products, operating costs, mining technology improvements, development costs and reclamation costs; and •assumptions concerning future effects of regulation, including the issuance of required permits and taxes by governmental agencies. Any inaccuracy in our estimates related to our REO reserves and non-reserve REO deposits could result in lower than expected revenues and higher than expected costs or a shortened estimated life for the mine at the Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. Period-to-period conversion of probable rare earth ore reserves to proven ore reserves may result in increases or decreases to the total reported amount of ore reserves. Conversion, an indicator of the success in upgrading probable ore reserves to proven ore reserves, is evaluated annually. Conversion rates are affected by a number of factors, including geological variability, applicable mining methods and changes in safe mining practices, economic considerations and new regulatory requirements. Work stoppages or similar difficulties could significantly disrupt our operations, reduce our revenues and materially adversely affect our results of operations. As of December 31, 2011, 122 employees at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility were covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the United Steelworkers of America that expires in March 2015. Also as of December 31, 2011, 186 employees at our Molycorp Sillamäe facility were unionized employees. A work stoppage at either or both our Molycorp Mountain Pass or Molycorp Sillamäe facilities could significantly disrupt our operations, reduce our revenues and materially adversely affect our results of operations. A shortage of skilled technicians and engineers may further increase operating costs, which may materially adversely affect our results of operations. Efficient production of rare earth products using modern techniques and equipment requires skilled technicians and engineers. In addition, our expansion efforts will significantly increase the number of skilled technicians and engineers required to successfully operate our business. In the event that we are unable to hire and train the necessary number of skilled technicians and engineers, there could be an adverse impact on our labor costs and our ability to reach full planned production levels in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We depend on key personnel for the success of our business. We depend on the services of our senior management team and other key personnel. The loss of the services of any member of senior management or a key employee could have an adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to locate, attract or employ on acceptable terms qualified replacements for senior management or other key employees if their services are no longer available. Because of the dangers involved in the mining of minerals and the manufacture of mineral products, there is a risk that we may incur liability or damages as we conduct our business. The mining of minerals and the manufacture of mineral products involves numerous hazards, including: •unusual and unexpected rock formations affecting ore or wall rock characteristics; 29 Table of Contents •ground or slope failures; •environmental hazards; •industrial accidents; •processing problems; •periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions or other acts of God; and •mechanical equipment failure and facility performance problems. Although we maintain insurance to address certain risks involved in our business, such as coverage for pollution liability, property damage, business interruption and workers' compensation, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain insurance to cover these risks at economically feasible premiums. Additionally, we cannot be certain that all claims we may make under our insurance policies will be deemed to be within the scope of, or fully covered by, our policies. Furthermore, we do not maintain coverage for losses resulting from acts of terrorism. We might also become subject to liability for environmental damage or other hazards that may be uninsurable or for which we may elect not to insure because of premium costs or commercial impracticality. These policies contain limits of coverage and exclusions that are typical of such policies generally. For example, our pollution liability policy for our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility has $20 million aggregate and per incident limits and excludes, among other things, costs associated with closure, post-closure and reclamation. The payment of such premiums, or the assumption of such liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We are currently subject to litigation, including stockholder class action litigation and derivative litigation, the unfavorable outcome of which might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flow. From time to time, we may become subject to various legal and regulatory proceedings relating to our business. In February 2012, a purported class action lawsuit was filed against us and certain of our current executive officers alleging violations of the federal securities law in connection with statements relating to our third quarter fiscal 2011 financial results and fourth quarter 2011 production guidance that we had filed with or furnished to the SEC, or otherwise made available to the public. We believe that this lawsuit is without merit, and we intend to vigorously defend ourselves against these claims. In addition, in February 2012, two stockholder derivative lawsuits were filed against us (as a nominal defendant) and certain of our directors, executive officers and stockholders alleging, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets and unjust enrichment by such directors and executive officers, and insider selling and misappropriation of information by such stockholders, in connection with sales of our common stock by such directors, officers and stockholders during 2011. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, including the current purported class action lawsuit and derivative lawsuits, we cannot determine with certainty the ultimate outcome of any such litigation or proceedings. If the final resolution of any such litigation or proceedings is unfavorable, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially affected. 30 Table of Contents Risks Related to Environmental Regulation Our operations are subject to extensive and costly environmental requirements; and current and future laws, regulations and permits will impose significant costs, liabilities or obligations or could limit or prevent our ability to continue our current operations or to undertake new operations. We are subject to numerous and detailed international, national, federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and permits, including those pertaining to employee health and safety, environmental permitting and licensing, air quality standards, or GHG emissions, water usage and disposal, pollution, waste management, plant and wildlife protection, including the protection of endangered species, handling and disposal of radioactive substances, remediation of soil and groundwater contamination, land use, reclamation and restoration of properties, the discharge of materials into the environment and groundwater quality and availability. As a result of our acquisition of Molycorp Sillamäe, our operations in Estonia are subject to the environmental laws and regulations of that country, including those applicable to European Union member countries. These requirements may result in significant costs, liabilities and obligations, impose conditions that are difficult to achieve or otherwise delay, limit or prohibit current or planned operations. Consequently, the modernization and expansion of the Molycorp Mountain Pass facility may be delayed, limited or prevented and current operations may be curtailed. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations, the suspension or revocation of permits and other sanctions. Pursuant to such requirements, we may also be subject to third-party claims, including for damages to property or injury to persons arising from our operations. Moreover, these environmental requirements, and the interpretation and enforcement thereof, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. For example, GHG emission regulation is becoming more rigorous. As a result of our planned expansion at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, we expect to be required to report annual GHG emissions from our operations, and additional GHG emission related requirements are in various stages of development. The U.S. Congress is considering various legislative proposals to address climate change. In addition, the EPA has issued regulations, including the "Tailoring Rule," that subject GHG emissions from certain stationary sources to the Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. California is also implementing regulations pursuant to its Global Warming Solutions Act that establish a state-wide cap-and trade program for GHG emissions. Any such regulations could require us to modify existing permits or obtain new permits, implement additional pollution control technology, curtail operations or increase significantly our operating costs, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, reputation, operating performance and product demand. Any future changes in these laws, regulations or permits (or the interpretation or enforcement thereof) or any sanctions, damages, costs, obligations or liabilities in respect of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, the California Labor Code and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, and various regulations applicable in Estonia, which impose stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of our operations. Our operations at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility are subject to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, as amended by the Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response Act of 2006, and the regulations adopted by the California Occupational Safety and Health Administration, which impose stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of mineral extraction and processing operations, including the training of personnel, operating procedures, operating equipment and other matters. Our operations at our Molycorp Tolleson and Molycorp Mountain Pass facilities, are also subject to the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970. 31 Table of Contents Our operations at the Molycorp Sillamäe facility are subject to the Estonian Health and Safety Act of 1999, and the health and safety requirements for handling hazardous chemicals and materials containing hazardous chemicals under Estonian law. Our failure to comply with these or other applicable safety and health standards, or changes in such standards or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or otherwise impose significant restrictions on our ability to conduct mineral extraction and processing operations. Our operations may affect the environment or cause exposure to hazardous substances, any of which could result in material costs, obligations or liabilities. Our operations at our Molycorp Mountain Pass and Molycorp Sillamae facilities currently use, and in the past have used, hazardous materials and generate, and in the past have generated, hazardous and naturally occurring radioactive wastes. Our Molycorp Sillamäe facility in Estonia has a long history of industrial use, including uranium ore and alum shale processing, as a result of which its operations may have impacted the environment. In addition, our Estonian operations require the management and disposal of radioactive wastes. Our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility has been used for mining and related purposes since 1952, and contamination is known to exist around the facility. We may be subject to claims under environmental laws, regulations and permits for toxic torts, natural resource damages and other liabilities, as well as for the investigation and remediation of soil, surface water, groundwater and other environmental media. Our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility is currently subject to an order issued by the Lahontan Regional Water Quality Control Board pursuant to which we have conducted various investigatory and remedial actions, primarily related to certain onsite impoundments, including groundwater monitoring, extraction and treatment and soil remediation. We are still in the process of delineating the extent of groundwater contamination at and around the facility and cannot assure you that we will not incur material costs relating to the remediation of such contamination. Also, prior to our acquisition of our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, leaks in a wastewater pipeline from the Molycorp Mountain Pass facility to offsite evaporation ponds on the Ivanpah dry lake bed caused contamination. However, that contamination is being remediated by Chevron Mining Inc., who retained ownership of the ponds and the pipeline. In addition to claims arising out of our current or former properties, such claims may arise in connection with contaminated third-party sites at which we have disposed of waste. As a matter of law, and despite any contractual indemnity or allocation arrangements or acquisition agreements to the contrary, our liability for these claims may be joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of any contamination, or even for the entire share. These and similar unforeseen impacts that our operations may have on the environment, as well as human exposure to hazardous or radioactive materials or wastes associated with our operations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operation and financial condition. We may be unable to obtain, maintain or renew permits necessary for the development or operation of our facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We must obtain, for all our operations, a number of permits that impose strict conditions, requirements and obligations relating to various environmental and health and safety matters in connection with our current and future operations, including the modernization and expansion of our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. To obtain, maintain and renew certain permits, we may be required to conduct environmental studies and collect and present data to governmental authorities pertaining to the potential impact of our current and future operations upon the environment, including the potential impact on endangered species, and to take steps to avoid or mitigate those impacts. The permitting rules, and interpretation thereof, are complex and have tended to become more stringent over time. In 32 Table of Contents some cases, the public (including environmental interest groups) has rights to comment upon and submit objections to permit applications and environmental analysis prepared in connection therewith, and otherwise participate in the permitting process, including challenging the issuance of permits, validity of environmental analyses and determinations and performance of permitted activities. Accordingly, permits required for our operations, including the modernization and expansion of our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, may not be issued, maintained or renewed in a timely fashion or at all, may be issued or renewed with conditions that restrict our ability to conduct our operations economically, or may be subsequently revoked. Any such failure to obtain, maintain or renew permits, or other permitting delays or conditions, including in connection with any environmental impact analyses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to acquire, maintain or renew financial assurances related to the reclamation and restoration of mining property could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are generally obligated to restore property after it has been mined in accordance with regulatory standards and our approved reclamation plan at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. We are required under federal, state and local laws to maintain financial assurances, such as surety bonds, to secure such obligations. The failure to acquire, maintain or renew such assurances, as required by federal, state and local laws, could subject us to fines and penalties as well as the revocation of our operating permits. Such failure could result from a variety of factors, including: •the lack of availability, higher expense or unreasonable terms of such financial assurances; •the ability of current and future financial assurance counterparties to increase required collateral; and •the exercise by third-party financial assurance counterparties of any rights to refuse to renew the financial assurance instruments. Our inability to acquire or failure to maintain or renew such financial assurances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the assumptions underlying our reclamation plan and mine closure obligations are inaccurate, we could be required to expend materially greater amounts than anticipated to reclaim mined property, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Federal, state and local laws and regulations establish reclamation and closure standards applicable to our surface mining and other operations as well. Estimates of our total reclamation and mine closure liabilities are based upon our closure and reclamation plans, third-party expert reports, current applicable laws and regulations, certain permit terms and our engineering expertise related to these requirements. Any change in the underlying assumptions or other variation between the estimated liabilities and actual costs could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock and Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock A trading market that will provide our stockholders with adequate liquidity may not be sustained. Our common stock has been publicly traded since July 2010, and our mandatory convertible preferred stock since February 2011. The prices of our common and mandatory convertible preferred stock may fluctuate significantly. Accordingly, stockholders could lose all or part of their investment. Our shares of common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, in July 2010, and our shares of mandatory convertible preferred stock, which we refer to as our preferred stock, began trading on the NYSE in February 2011. Active trading markets for our common stock and 33 Table of Contents preferred stock may not be sustained, which could depress the market price of our common stock, preferred stock, or both, and could affect your ability to sell your shares of common stock or preferred stock. Limited trading volumes and liquidity may result in wide bid-ask spreads, contribute to significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock and our preferred stock and limit the number of investors who are able to buy our common stock and preferred stock. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile and may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: •the extremely volatile rare earth industry; •our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; •loss of a large customer; •changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; •general economic conditions; •the failure of securities analysts to cover our stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts; •future sales of our common stock; and •other factors described in this "Risk Factors" section. Our common stock price has been particularly affected by the volatility in the rare earths industry, as the high and the low sales price of our common stock in the period since we went public in July 2010 through February 24, 2012 has ranged from a low of $12.10 to a high of $79.16. If conditions in our industry remain volatile, our common stock price may continue to exhibit volatility as well. In particular, if prices or demand for rare earth were to decline, our stock price would likely decline. The volatility of our preferred stock has been closely correlated to the volatility of our common stock from when we issued our preferred stock in February 2011 through February 24, 2012. Reports published by securities or industry analysts, including projections in those reports that exceed our actual results, could adversely affect our stock price and trading volume. Research analysts publish their own quarterly projections regarding our operating results. These projections may vary widely from one another and may not accurately predict the results we actually achieve. Our stock price may decline if we fail to meet securities research analysts' projections. Similarly, if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, our stock price or trading volume could decline. Future sales, or availability for sale, of shares of our common stock or preferred stock by stockholders could depress the market price of our common stock or preferred stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or preferred stock in the public market, or the perception that large sales could occur, or the conversion of shares of our mandatory convertible preferred stock or convertible senior notes into common stock or the perception that conversion could occur, could depress the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2011, we had 83,896,043 shares of our common stock and 2,070,000 shares of our preferred stock outstanding. All of these shares are freely tradable, except for any shares held by our "affiliates" as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933; our affiliates owned 27,220,209 shares of common stock as of December 31, 2011. Up to 4,140,000 shares of common stock, subject to anti-dilution, make-whole and other adjustments, will be issuable upon conversion of shares of mandatory convertible preferred stock. Also, up to 3,221,288 shares of common stock, subject to 34 Table of Contents anti-dilution, make-whole and other adjustments, will be issuable upon conversion of the convertible senior notes. The common stock issuable upon conversion of the mandatory preferred stock will be freely tradeable and the common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible senior notes is expected to be freely tradeable after the six-month anniversary of the issuance of such convertible senior notes. The availability of shares of our capital stock for sale in the future could reduce the market price of our common stock and our preferred stock. In the future, we may issue additional securities to raise capital. We may also acquire interests in other companies by using a combination of cash and our capital stock, including common stock or securities convertible into our common stock, or just our capital stock. Any of these events may dilute your ownership interest in our company and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock and our preferred stock. In addition, sales of a substantial amount of our common stock or preferred stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could reduce the market price of our common stock or preferred stock. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our securities. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, in the foreseeable future. For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings, after considering any dividends on our preferred stock, to finance the development of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent upon then-existing conditions, including our operating results and financial condition, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, business prospects and other factors that our board of directors considers relevant. So long as any share of our preferred stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution may be declared or paid on our common stock unless all accumulated and unpaid dividends have been paid on our preferred stock, subject to exceptions, such as dividends on our common stock payable solely in shares of our common stock. Accordingly, holders of our common stock must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their shares of common stock. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws after the Corporate Reorganization, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provisions may have the effect of delaying, deferring or discouraging a prospective acquiror from making a tender offer for our shares or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. To the extent that these provisions discourage takeover attempts, they could deprive stockholders of opportunities to realize takeover premiums for their shares. Moreover, these provisions could discourage accumulations of large blocks of common stock, thus depriving stockholders of any advantages which large accumulations of stock might provide. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. Section 203 prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations unless the business combination was approved in advance by our board of directors, results in the stockholder holding more than 85% of our outstanding common stock or is approved by the holders of at least 662/3% of our outstanding common stock not held by the stockholder engaging in the transaction. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive 35 Table of Contents a premium for their shares of our common stock and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Our Board can issue, without stockholder approval, additional preferred stock with voting and conversion rights and convertible debt that could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of common stock. Our Board can issue, without stockholder approval, additional preferred stock with voting and conversion rights and convertible debt that could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of common stock and reduce the likelihood that such holders will receive dividend payments or payments upon liquidation, including shares of our outstanding preferred stock and convertible senior notes. Such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of the common stock. The issuance of additional preferred stock and/or convertible debt or even the ability to issue additional preferred stock and/or convertible debt could also have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control or other corporate action. Our preferred stock and convertible senior notes may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock is likely to be influenced by our preferred stock and our convertible senior notes. For example, the market price of our common stock could become more volatile and could be depressed by: •investors' anticipation of the potential resale in the market of a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock received upon conversion of our preferred stock and convertible senior notes; •possible sales of our common stock by investors who view our preferred stock and/or convertible senior notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in us than owning shares of our common stock; and •hedging or arbitrage trading activity that may develop involving our preferred stock and our common stock and convertible senior notes. Our Board and management have broad discretion over the use of our cash reserves and might not apply this cash in ways that increase the value of our stockholders' investment. We had $418.9 million of cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2011, primarily from our initial public offering, our public offering of our preferred stock and from our private placement of convertible senior notes. We intend to use the majority of our remaining cash reserves, including any proceeds received from Molymet, to implement Project Phoenix Phase 1 and Project Phoenix Phase 2 and expand into metal, alloy and magnet production. Our Board and management have broad discretion to use our cash reserves, and our stockholders will be relying on their judgment regarding the application of this cash. Our Board and management might not apply the cash in ways that increase the value of our common stock and preferred stock. Until we use the cash, we plan to invest it, and these investments may not yield a favorable rate of return. If we do not invest or apply the cash in ways that enhance stockholder value, we may fail to achieve expected financial results, which could cause the price of our common stock and preferred stock to decline. We are required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls. If we are unable to achieve and maintain effective internal controls, particularly in a period of anticipated rapid growth, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 requires that we evaluate our internal control over financial reporting to enable management to report on the effectiveness of those controls. Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate 36 Table of Contents internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We have taken steps to improve our internal control over financial reporting and we have incurred significant costs to remediate identified deficiencies and improve our internal controls, and will incur additional expense as we undertake the modernization and expansion of the Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. As we implement this modernization and expansion, the resulting growth in our business will require us to implement additional internal controls. To comply with Sarbanes-Oxley requirements, especially during this period of anticipated rapid growth, we will need to further upgrade our systems, including information technology, implement additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and hire additional accounting, finance and legal staff. If we are unable to upgrade our systems and procedures or hire the necessary additional personnel in a timely and effective fashion, we may not be able to comply with our financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to public companies. As a public company, we are required to obtain an audit report from our independent registered public accounting firm regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, if we or, to the extent applicable, our independent registered public accounting firm are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if we fail to comply with our financial reporting requirements, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 37 Table of Contents 