ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors address the material risks concerning our business. If any of the risks discussed in this annual report were to occur, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operation and our ability to service our debt could be materially and adversely affected and the market price per share of our common stock could decline significantly. Some statements in this annual report, including statements in the following risk factors constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled “Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The markets we serve are subject to general economic conditions and cyclical demand, which could harm our business and lead to significant shifts in our results of operations from quarter to quarter that make it difficult to project long-term performance. Our operating results have been and may in the future be adversely affected by general economic conditions and the cyclical pattern of certain industries in which our customers and end users operate. Demand for our products and services depends in large part upon the level of capital and maintenance expenditures by many of our customers and end users, in particular those in the energy, chemical processing and power generation industries, and firms that design and construct facilities for these industries. These customers’ expenditures historically have been cyclical in nature and vulnerable to economic downturns. Prolonged periods of little or no economic growth could decrease demand for oil and gas which, in turn, could result in lower demand for our products and a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, this historically cyclical demand may lead to significant shifts in our results of operations from quarter to quarter, which limits our ability to make accurate long-term predictions about our future performance. A sustained downturn in the energy industry, due to oil and gas prices decreasing or otherwise, could decrease demand for some of our products and services, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our revenue historically has been generated by end-users in the upstream oil and gas markets. The businesses of most of our customers in the energy industry are, to varying degrees, cyclical and historically have experienced periodic downturns. Profitability in the energy industry is highly sensitive to supply and demand cycles and commodity prices, which historically have been volatile, and our customers in this industry historically have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during industry downturns. Customer project delays may limit our ability to realize value from our backlog as expected and cause fluctuations in the timing or the amount of revenue earned and the profitability of our business in a particular 13 Table of Contents period. In addition, such delays may lead to significant fluctuations in results of operations from quarter to quarter, making it difficult to predict our financial performance on a quarterly basis. Demand for a significant portion of our products and services depends upon the level of capital expenditure by companies in the energy industry, which depends, in part, on energy prices. Prices of oil and gas have been very volatile over the past four years, with significant increases until achieving historic highs in July 2008, followed immediately by a steep decline through 2009 and moderate increases throughout 2010 and in early 2011. A sustained downturn in the capital expenditures of our customers, whether due to a decrease in the market price of oil and gas or otherwise, may delay projects, decrease demand for our products and services and cause downward pressure on the prices we charge, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such downturns, including the perception that they might continue, could have a significant negative impact on the market price of our common stock. As a global business, we are exposed to economic, political and other risks in a number of countries, which could materially reduce our revenues, profitability or cash flows or materially increase our liabilities. If we are unable to continue operating successfully in one or more foreign countries, it may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. For fiscal 2011, approximately 69% of our revenues were generated outside of the United States, and approximately 37% were generated outside North America. In addition, one of our key growth strategies is to continue to expand our global footprint in emerging and high growth markets around the world, although we may not be successful in expanding our international business. Conducting business outside the United States is subject to additional risks, including the following: · changes in a specific country’s or region’s political, social or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets; · trade relations between the United States and those foreign countries in which our customers and suppliers have operations, including protectionist measures such as tariffs and import or export licensing requirements; · restrictions on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries in, expand in and repatriate cash from, foreign jurisdictions; · exchange controls and currency restrictions; · the burden of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws; · potentially negative consequences from changes in U.S. and foreign tax laws; · difficulty in staffing and managing (including ensuring compliance with internal policies and controls) geographically widespread operations; · different regulatory regimes controlling the protection of our intellectual property; · difficulty in the enforcement of contractual obligations in non-U.S. jurisdictions and the collection of accounts receivable from foreign accounts; and · transportation delays or interruptions. One or more of these factors could prevent us from successfully expanding our presence in international markets, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability or cash flows or cause an increase in our liabilities. We may not succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to counter the foregoing factors effectively in each location where we do business. 14 Table of Contents A failure to deliver our backlog on time could affect our future sales and profitability and our relationships with our customers, and if we were to experience a material amount of modifications or cancellations of orders, our sales could be negatively impacted. Our backlog is comprised of the portion of firm signed purchase orders or other written contractual commitments received from customers that we have not recognized as revenue. The dollar amount of backlog as of March 31, 2011 was $76.3 million. The timing of our recognition of revenue out of our backlog is subject to a variety of factors that may cause delays, many of which, including fluctuations in our customers’ delivery schedules, are beyond our control. Such delays may lead to significant fluctuations in results of operations from quarter to quarter, making it difficult to predict our financial performance on a quarterly basis. For example, a delay in the completion of a large Greenfield project resulted in approximately several million dollars in revenue attributable to such project being realized in the quarter ended September 30, 2010, which was one quarter later than expected. Further, while we have historically experienced few order cancellations and the amount of order cancellations has not been material compared to our total contract volume, if we were to experience a significant amount of cancellations of or reductions in purchase orders, it would reduce our backlog and, consequently, our future sales and results of operations. Our ability to meet customer delivery schedules for our backlog is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, access to raw materials, an adequate and capable workforce, engineering expertise for certain projects, sufficient manufacturing capacity and, in some cases, our reliance on subcontractors. For example, we are currently evaluating the expansion of our principal manufacturing facility in San Marcos, Texas, which we expect will serve our production capacity needs at that location for at least five years based on our current business plan. We cannot, however, provide any assurance that such expansion will be undertaken in a timely fashion, or at all, or that we will realize the gain in capacity we expect. The availability of these factors may in some cases be subject to conditions outside of our control. A failure to deliver in accordance with our performance obligations may result in financial penalties and damage to existing customer relationships, our reputation and a loss of future bidding opportunities, which could cause the loss of future business and could negatively impact our financial performance. Our future revenue depends in part on our ability to bid and win new contracts. Our failure to effectively obtain future contracts could adversely affect our profitability. Our future revenue and overall results of operations require us to successfully bid on new contracts and, in particular, contracts for large Greenfield projects, which are frequently subject to competitive bidding processes. For example, for fiscal 2011, approximately 17% of our revenue consisted of designing, engineering, supplying and/or installing equipment for large Greenfield projects pursuant to competitive bids. Our revenue from major projects depends in part on the level of capital expenditures in our principal end markets, including the energy, chemical processing and power generation industries. The number of such projects we win in any year fluctuates, and is dependent upon the number of projects available and our ability to bid successfully for such projects. Contract proposals and negotiations are complex and frequently involve a lengthy bidding and selection process, which is affected by a number of factors, such as competitive position, market conditions, financing arrangements and required governmental approvals. For example, a client may require us to provide a bond or letter of credit to protect the client should we fail to perform under the terms of the contract. If negative market conditions arise, or if we fail to secure adequate financial arrangements or required governmental approvals, we may not be able to pursue particular projects, which could adversely affect our profitability. We may be unable to compete successfully in the highly competitive markets in which we operate. We operate in competitive domestic and international markets and compete with highly competitive domestic and international manufacturers and service providers. The fragmented nature of the industrial electric heat tracing industry, which consists of approximately 40 companies, makes the market for our products and services highly competitive. A number of our direct and indirect competitors are major multinational corporations, some of which have substantially greater technical, financial and marketing resources than us, and additional competitors may enter these markets. Our competitors may develop products that are superior to our products, develop methods of more efficiently and effectively providing products and services, or adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. Any increase in competition may cause us to lose market share or compel us to reduce prices to remain competitive, which could result in reduced sales and earnings. 15 Table of Contents Volatility in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may not be able to effectively manage our exchange rate and/or currency transaction risks. Volatility in currency exchange rates may decrease our revenues and profitability, adversely affect our liquidity and impair our financial condition. We have not historically entered into hedging instruments to manage our exchange rate risk. Our non-U.S. subsidiaries generally sell their products and services in the local currency, but obtain a significant amount of their products from our facilities located in another country, primarily the United States, Canada or Europe. In particular, significant fluctuations in the Canadian Dollar, the Russian Ruble, the Euro or the Pound Sterling against the U.S. Dollar could adversely affect our results of operations. We also bid for certain foreign projects in U.S. Dollars or Euros. If the U.S. Dollar or Euro strengthens relative to the value of the local currency, we may be less competitive in bidding for those projects. See Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” for additional information regarding our foreign currency exposure relating to operations. In order to meet our global cash management needs, we often transfer cash between the United States and foreign operations and sometimes between foreign entities. In addition, our debt service requirements are primarily in U.S. Dollars and a substantial portion of our cash flow is generated in foreign currencies, and we may need to repatriate cash to the United States in order to meet our U.S. debt service obligations, including on our senior secured notes. These transfers of cash expose us to currency exchange rate risks, and significant changes in the value of the foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar could limit our ability to meet our debt obligations, including under our senior secured notes, and impair our financial condition. Because our consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. Dollars, and we generate a substantial amount of our sales and earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into U.S. Dollars can result in a significant decrease in the amount of those sales and earnings. In addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. Due to the nature of our business, we may be liable for damages based on product liability claims. We are also exposed to potential indemnity claims from customers for losses due to our work or if our employees are injured performing services. We face a risk of exposure to claims in the event that the failure, use or misuse of our products results, or is alleged to result, in death, bodily injury, property damage or economic loss. Although we maintain quality controls and procedures, we cannot be sure that our products will be free from defects. If any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to replace the product. In addition, we may be required to recall or redesign such products, which could result in significant unexpected costs. Some of our products contain components manufactured by third parties, which may also have defects. In addition, if we are installing our products, we may be subject to claims that our installation caused damage or loss. Our products are often installed in our customers’ or end users’ complex and capital intensive facilities in inherently hazardous or dangerous industries, including energy, chemical processing and power generation, where the potential liability from risk of loss could be substantial. Although we currently maintain product liability coverage, which we believe is adequate for the continued operation of our business, we cannot be certain that this insurance coverage will continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost or, if available, will be adequate to cover any potential liabilities. With respect to components manufactured by third-party suppliers, the contractual indemnification that we seek from our third-party suppliers may be insufficient to cover claims made against us. In the event that we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification, product liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Under our customer contracts, we often indemnify our customers from damages and losses they incur due to our work or services performed by us, as well as for losses our customers incur due to any injury or loss of life suffered by any of our employees or our subcontractor’s personnel occurring on our customer’s property. Many, but not all, of our customer contracts include provisions designed to limit our potential liability by excluding consequential damages and lost profits from our indemnity obligations. However, substantial indemnity claims may exceed the amount of insurance we maintain and could have a material adverse affect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. 16 Table of Contents A material disruption at any of our manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our results of operations. If operations at any of our manufacturing facilities were to be disrupted as a result of significant equipment failures, natural disasters, power outages, fires, explosions, terrorism, adverse weather conditions, labor disputes or other reasons, we may be unable to fill customer orders and otherwise meet customer demand for our products, which could adversely affect our financial performance. For example, our marketing and research & development buildings, located on the same campus as our corporate headquarters and primary manufacturing facility in San Marcos, Texas, were destroyed by a tornado in January 2007. Interruptions in production, in particular at our manufacturing facilities in San Marcos, Texas, or Calgary, Canada, at which we manufacture the majority of our products, could increase our costs and reduce our sales. Any interruption in production capability could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to fill customer orders, which could negatively affect our profitability and financial condition. We maintain property damage insurance that we believe to be adequate to provide for reconstruction of facilities and equipment, as well as business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from any production interruption or shutdown caused by an insured loss. However, any recovery under our insurance policies may not offset the lost sales or increased costs that may be experienced during the disruption of operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Our international operations and non-U.S. subsidiaries are subject to a variety of complex and continually changing laws and regulations and, in particular, export control regulations. Due to the international scope of our operations, we are subject to a complex system of laws and regulations, including regulations issued by the U.S. Department of Justice, or the DOJ, the SEC, the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, Customs and Border Protection, the Bureau of Industry and Security, or BIS, the Office of Antiboycott Compliance, or OAC, and the Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, as well as the counterparts of these agencies in foreign countries. While we believe we are in material compliance with these regulations and maintain programs intended to achieve compliance, we may currently or may in the future be in violation of these regulations. In 2009, we entered into settlement agreements with BIS and OFAC, and in 2010, we entered into a settlement agreement with OAC, in each case with respect to matters we voluntarily disclosed to such agencies. Any alleged or actual violations may subject us to government scrutiny, investigation and civil and criminal penalties and may limit our ability to export our products or provide services outside the United States. Additionally, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. In addition, our geographically widespread operations, coupled with our relatively smaller offices in many countries and our reliance on third party subcontractors, suppliers and manufacturers in the completion of our projects, make it more difficult to oversee and ensure that all our offices and employees comply with our internal policies and control procedures. We have in the past experienced employee theft, although the amounts involved have not been material, and we cannot assure you that we can ensure compliance with our internal control policies and procedures. We operate in many different jurisdictions and we could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti-corruption laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which we refer to as the FCPA, and similar foreign anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments or providing anything of value to influence foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or obtaining an unfair advantage. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in the global enforcement of anti-corruption laws, with more frequent voluntary self-disclosures by companies, aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the DOJ and the SEC resulting in record fines and penalties, increased enforcement activity by non-U.S. regulators, and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. Because many of our customers and end users are involved in infrastructure construction and energy production, they are often subject to increased scrutiny by regulators. Our internal policies mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. We operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having governmental corruption problems to some degree and where strict compliance with anti-corruption laws may conflict with local customs and 17 Table of Contents practices. Our continued operation and expansion outside the United States, including in developing countries, could increase the risk of such violations in the future. Despite our training and compliance programs, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from unauthorized reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. In the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees or agents have or may have violated applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA, we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. Violations of these laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, which could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or financial condition. Our dependence on subcontractors could adversely affect our results of operations. We often rely on third party subcontractors as well as third party suppliers and manufacturers to complete our projects. To the extent that we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire supplies or materials, our ability to complete a project in a timely fashion or at a profit may be impaired. If the amount we are required to pay for these goods and services exceeds the amount we have estimated in bidding for fixed-price contracts, we could experience losses on these contracts. In addition, if a subcontractor or supplier is unable to deliver its services or materials according to the negotiated contract terms for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition or over-commitment of its resources, we may be required to purchase the services or materials from another source at a higher price. This may reduce the profit to be realized or result in a loss on a project for which the services or materials were needed. We may lose money on fixed-price contracts, and we are exposed to liquidated damages risks in many of our customer contracts. We often agree to provide products and services under fixed-price contracts, including our turnkey solutions. Under these contracts, we are typically responsible for all cost overruns, other than the amount of any cost overruns resulting from requested changes in order specifications. Our actual costs and any gross profit realized on these fixed-price contracts could vary from the estimated costs on which these contracts were originally based. This may occur for various reasons, including errors in estimates or bidding, changes in availability and cost of labor and raw materials and unforeseen technical and logistical challenges, including with managing our geographically widespread operations and use of third party subcontractors, suppliers and manufacturers in many countries. These variations and the risks inherent in our projects may result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. Depending on the size of a project, variations from estimated contract performance could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. In addition, many of our customer contracts, including fixed-price contracts, contain liquidated damages provisions in the event that we fail to perform our obligations thereunder in a timely manner or in accordance with the agreed terms, conditions and standards. If we lose our senior management or other key employees, our business may be adversely affected. Our ability to successfully operate and grow our global business and implement our strategies is largely dependent on the efforts, abilities and services of our senior management and other key employees. If we lose the services of our senior management or other key employees and are unable to find qualified replacements with comparable experience in the industry, our business could be negatively affected. Our future success will also depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, such as engineers and other skilled labor, and in particular management and skilled employees for our foreign operations. Our business strategy includes acquiring smaller, value-added companies and making investments that complement our existing business. These acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. Acquisitions and investments may involve cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: · diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; 18 Table of Contents · difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; · potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships or key customers of acquired companies or of us; and · assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies. We have limited experience in acquiring or integrating other businesses or making investments or undertaking joint ventures with others. It may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our current business operations. Any acquisitions or investments may ultimately harm our business or financial condition, as such acquisitions may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges. We are subject to numerous environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, as well as potential environmental liabilities, which may require us to make substantial expenditures. Our operations and properties are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air or water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances or wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites and workplace health and safety. As an owner or operator of real property, or generator of waste, we could become subject to liability for environmental contamination, regardless of whether we caused such contamination. Certain environmental laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, impose joint and several liability for cleanup costs, without regard to fault, on persons who have disposed of or released hazardous substances into the environment. In addition, we could become liable to third parties for damages resulting from the disposal or release of hazardous substances into the environment. Some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. From time to time, we could be subject to requests for information, notices of violation, and/or investigations initiated by environmental regulatory agencies relating to our operations and properties. Violations of environmental and health and safety laws can result in substantial penalties, civil and criminal sanctions, permit revocations, and facility shutdowns. Environmental and health and safety laws may change rapidly and have tended to become more stringent over time. As a result, we could incur costs for past, present, or future failure to comply with all environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. In addition, we could become subject to potential regulations concerning the emission of greenhouse gases, and while the effect of such future regulations cannot be determined at this time, they could require us to incur substantial costs in order to achieve and maintain compliance. In the ordinary course of business, we may be held responsible for any environmental damages we may cause to our customers’ premises. Additional liabilities related to taxes or potential tax adjustments could adversely impact our financial results, financial condition and cash flow. We are subject to tax and related obligations in the jurisdictions in which we operate or do business, including state, local, federal and foreign taxes. The taxing rules of the various jurisdictions in which we operate or do business often are complex and subject to varying interpretations. Tax authorities may challenge tax positions that we take or historically have taken, and may assess taxes where we have not made tax filings or may audit the tax filings we have made and assess additional taxes, as they have done from time to time in the past. Some of these assessments may be substantial, and also may involve the imposition of substantial penalties and interest. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and in establishing appropriate reserves. The resolutions of our tax positions are unpredictable. The payment of substantial additional taxes, penalties or interest resulting from any assessments could materially and adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Even though we have increased and may in the future increase our repatriation of cash earned by our non-U.S. subsidiaries to fund one-time redemptions of our outstanding senior secured notes or other extraordinary corporate events in the United States, we will leave a portion of such cash outside the United States as permanently reinvested earnings and profits. Accordingly, our current estimated annual effective tax rate is based on partial, and not full, repatriation of cash earned by our non-U.S. subsidiaries. If we underestimate our need for repatriated cash, or our needs change, significant tax adjustments may result. 19 Table of Contents The obligations associated with being a public company require significant resources and management attention. Due to TGH being a public company with listed equity securities and THC having SEC-registered debt securities, we are required to comply with certain laws, regulations and requirements, including the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which we refer to the Exchange Act, certain corporate governance provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which we refer to as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, related regulations of the SEC and requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, which we refer to as the NYSE. Complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements occupies a significant amount of time of our board of directors and management and results in significant legal, accounting and other expenses. We maintain, and will continue to maintain, internal controls and procedures for financial reporting and accounting systems to meet our reporting obligations as a public company. However, the measures we take may not be sufficient to satisfy our obligations. In addition, we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs incurred in order to comply with these requirements. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments and attestation by our independent registered public accounting firm of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Starting with the annual report for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2012, we will be required to file an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting with the SEC. For the fiscal year ending March 31, 2013, in addition to the management assessment, we will have to file an attestation by our independent registered public accounting firm of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting with the SEC. In connection with the implementation of the necessary procedures and practices related to internal control over financial reporting, we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. If we fail to comply with Section 404, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify and report a material weakness, it may affect the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and subject us to sanctions or investigations by the NYSE, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Our current or future indebtedness could impair our financial condition and reduce the funds available to us for other purposes. Our debt agreements impose certain operating and financial restrictions, with which failure to comply could result in an event of default that could adversely affect our results of operations. We have substantial indebtedness. At March 31, 2011, THC had $210.0 million outstanding in senior secured notes. After taking into account the optional redemptions of $21.0 million aggregate principal amount of our senior secured notes that occurred on each of April 29, 2011 and June 9, 2011, we have long-term debt of $168.0 million, all of which is secured. Our senior secured notes accrue interest at a fixed rate of 9.500%, payable in cash semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund the interest payments on our senior secured notes and other debt service obligations and keep us in compliance with the covenants under our debt agreements or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We cannot ensure that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements, which may impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs; obtain standby letters of credit, bank guarantees or performance bonds required to bid on or secure certain customer contracts; make strategic acquisitions or investments or enter into alliances; withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general; engage in business activities, including future opportunities, that may be in our interest; and plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategies. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, or if we breach any of the covenants in debt agreements, we will be in default and, as a result, our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under our revolving credit facility could terminate their commitments to lend us money and foreclose against the assets securing our borrowings, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 20 Table of Contents In addition, we and certain of our subsidiaries may incur significant additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness. Although the terms of our debt agreements contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be significant. Incurring additional indebtedness could increase the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness, including our ability to service our indebtedness. A significant portion of our business is conducted through foreign subsidiaries and our failure to generate sufficient cash flow from these subsidiaries, or otherwise repatriate or receive cash from these subsidiaries, could result in our inability to repay our indebtedness. Approximately 69% of our fiscal 2011 revenues were generated outside of the United States. While we have been able to meet the regular interest payment obligations on our senior secured notes to date from cash generated through our U.S. operations and expect to be able to continue to do so in the future, we may seek to repatriate cash for other uses, and our ability to withdraw cash from foreign subsidiaries will depend upon the results of operations of these subsidiaries and may be subject to legal, contractual or other restrictions and other business considerations. Our foreign subsidiaries may enter into financing arrangements that limit their ability to make loans or other payments to fund payments of our debt. In particular, to the extent our foreign subsidiaries incur additional indebtedness, the ability of our foreign subsidiaries to provide us with cash may be limited. In addition, dividend and interest payments to us from our foreign subsidiaries may be subject to foreign withholding taxes, which could reduce the amount of funds we receive from our foreign subsidiaries. Dividends and other distributions from our foreign subsidiaries may also be subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and legal and other restrictions on repatriation, which could further reduce the amount of funds we receive from our foreign subsidiaries. In general, when an entity in a foreign jurisdiction repatriates cash to the United States, the amount of such cash is treated as a dividend taxable at current U.S. tax rates. Accordingly, upon the distribution of cash to us from our foreign subsidiaries, we will be subject to U.S. income taxes. Although foreign tax credits may be available to reduce the amount of the additional tax liability, these credits may be limited based on our tax attributes. Therefore, to the extent that we must use cash generated in foreign jurisdictions, there may be a cost associated with repatriating cash to the United States. We rely heavily on trade secrets to gain a competitive advantage in the market and the unenforceability of our nondisclosure agreements may adversely affect our operations. The heat tracing industry is highly competitive and subject to the introduction of innovative techniques and services using new technologies. While we have patented some of our products and processes, we historically have not relied upon patents to protect our design or manufacturing processes or products, and our patents are not material to our operations or business. Instead, we rely significantly on maintaining confidential our trade secrets and other information related to our operations. Accordingly, we require all employees to sign a nondisclosure agreement to protect our trade secrets, business strategy and other proprietary information. If the provisions of these agreements are found unenforceable in any jurisdiction within which we operate, the disclosure of our proprietary information may place us at a competitive disadvantage. Even where the provisions are enforceable, the confidentiality clauses may not provide adequate protection of our trade secrets and proprietary information in every jurisdiction. We may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property rights, including trade secrets and know-how, without our authorization or from independently developing intellectual property that is the same as or similar to ours, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our intellectual property rights as fully as in the United States. The unauthorized use of our trade secrets or know-how by third parties could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, cause us to lose sales or otherwise harm our business or increase our expenses as we attempt to enforce our rights. Our intellectual property rights may not be successfully asserted in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. We have obtained and applied for some U.S. and, to a lesser extent, foreign trademark registrations and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks. We cannot guarantee that any of our pending applications will be approved. Moreover, even if the applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or 21 Table of Contents otherwise challenge them. In addition, we rely on a number of significant unregistered trademarks, primarily abroad, but also in the United States, in the day-to-day operation of our business. Without the protections afforded by registration, our ability to protect and use our trademarks may be limited and could negatively affect our business. In addition, while we have not faced intellectual property infringement claims from others in recent years, in the event successful infringement claims are brought against us, particularly claims (under patents or otherwise) against our product design or manufacturing processes, such claims could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The price of our common stock could be volatile. The overall market and the price of our common stock may fluctuate greatly. The trading price of our common stock may be significantly affected by various factors, including: (i) quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; (ii) changes in investors’ and analysts’ perception of the business risks and conditions of our business or our competitors; (iii) our ability to meet the earnings estimates and other performance expectations of financial analysts or investors; (iv) unfavorable commentary or downgrades of our stock by equity research analysts; (v) the emergence of new sales channels in which we are unable to compete effectively; (vi) disruption to our operations; (vii) termination of lock-up agreements or other restrictions on the ability of our existing stockholders to sell their shares; (viii) fluctuations in the stock prices of our peer companies or in stock markets in general; and (ix) general economic or political conditions. Future sales of our common stock may lower our stock price. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. In addition, the perception in the public market that our existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock could depress the market price of our common stock, regardless of the actual plans of our existing stockholders. As of June 13, 2011, we had 29.5 million shares of our common stock outstanding, 10.6 million shares of which are immediately available for resale in the public market and 18.9 million of which will become available for resale in the public market after November 1, 2011 (subject to extension under certain circumstances), and subject to certain restrictions, including limitations under Rule 144 and restrictions on open market transfers pursuant to the terms of our Securityholder Agreement (as described below in Item 13, “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Related Party Transactions—Securityholder Agreement”). In addition, we have filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act registering all of the shares of common stock subject to outstanding options (including 2.8 million shares subject to vested stock options) as well as shares of our common stock that may otherwise be covered by additional options and other awards granted under our existing equity incentive plans. See Item 11, “Executive Compensation—Elements of Our Compensation Program — Long-Term Incentives-Restricted Stock and Stock Option Plan” and “Executive Compensation—2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan.” These shares can be sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to certain restrictions, including restrictions under the securities laws applicable to resales by affiliates. In addition, beginning November 1, 2011 (subject to extension under certain circumstances), CHS will have the right, subject to certain exceptions and conditions, to require us to register their 9,556,793 shares of common stock under the Securities Act, and holders of an additional 9,301,712 shares of our common stock will have the right to participate in future registrations of securities by us. Registration of any of these outstanding shares of common stock would result in such shares becoming freely tradable without compliance with Rule 144 upon effectiveness of the registration statement. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. Our corporate governance documents include provisions: 22 Table of Contents · authorizing our board of directors, without further action by the stockholders, to issue blank check preferred stock; · limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; · requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; · authorizing our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to amend our amended and restated bylaws; · limiting the determination of the number of directors on our board of directors and the filling of vacancies or newly created seats on our board of directors to our board of directors then in office; and · subject to certain exceptions, limiting our ability to engage in certain business combinations with an “interested stockholder” for a three-year period following the time that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control of our company or changes in our management. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, which may impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial. Any provision of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Our existing stockholders exert significant influence over us, and their interests may not coincide with yours. CHS and its affiliates beneficially own, in the aggregate, 32.4% of our outstanding common stock. CHS and its affiliates, together with our other sponsors and their respective affiliates, beneficially own, in the aggregate, 53.3% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, our sponsors, acting individually or together, could control substantially all matters requiring stockholder approval for the foreseeable future, including approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, pursuant to the terms of our Securityholder Agreement (as described below in Item 13, “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Related Party Transactions—Securityholder Agreement”), CHS will continue to have the ability to designate one member of our board of directors and to require all other parties to the Securityholder Agreement to sell their respective shares of our common stock, on substantially the same terms and conditions as CHS is selling its shares, in the event that CHS approves a sale of us. The parties to the Securityholder Agreement, other than CHS, own in the aggregate 31.5% of our outstanding common stock. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests as a company or the interest of other stockholders. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even if that change in control would benefit our stockholders. This significant concentration of stock ownership and voting power may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. See Item 12, “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters” and Item 13, “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence” for further information about the equity interests held by our sponsors and their respective affiliates. Moreover, our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains a provision renouncing our interest and expectancy in, or in being offered an opportunity to participate in, any business opportunity that may be presented to the sponsors or any of their respective affiliates (other than us and our subsidiaries), subsidiaries, officers, directors, agents, stockholders, members, partners and employees and that may be a business opportunity for such sponsor, even if the opportunity is one that we might reasonably have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue if granted the opportunity to do so. None of the sponsors has any duty to refrain from engaging directly or indirectly in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as us or any of our subsidiaries. 23 Table of Contents We are eligible to take advantage of the NYSE’s “controlled company” exemption from certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, and if we elect to do so, our stockholders will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements. Under the NYSE rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another person or group of persons acting together is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements. We are eligible to take advantage of the “controlled company” exception in light of the collective voting power of our sponsors and their respective affiliates. We currently are not relying on this exception, but may elect to do so in the future. If we were to elect to be treated as a “controlled company” in the future, we would be exempt from certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that our board of directors consist of a majority of independent directors and that we have compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees comprised entirely of independent directors, and our stockholders would not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our common stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our common stock price could decline. The market price of our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the market price of our common stock or its trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrade our common stock or if our operating results or prospects do not meet their expectations, the market price of our common stock could decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 24 Table of Contents 