ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. These risk factors should be considered along with the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause our actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The following discussion is not an all-inclusive listing of risks, although we believe these are the more material risks that we face. If any of the following occur, our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be negatively affected.Risks Related to Our BusinessThe production of rare earth products is a capital-intensive business and our ongoing modernization and expansion efforts at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility will require the commitment of substantial resources. Any unanticipated costs or further delays associated with our ongoing modernization and expansion efforts at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.We have encountered cost pressures during the modernization and expansion efforts at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility that have led to significantly higher costs than previously expected. We previously implemented mitigation efforts to maintain costs within our estimates in response to cost pressures and continue to experience additional cost pressures. In addition, our estimated expenses may increase as consultants, personnel and equipment associated with advancing development and commercial production are added. The progress of our modernization and expansion efforts at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility and the amounts and timing of expenditures will depend in part on the following:•the replacement of a significant portion of the existing process, plant and equipment that consists of aging or outdated facilities and equipment, retooling and development and the preparation of the mine pit for renewed production of ore;•the results of consultants' analysis and recommendations; •maintaining required federal, state and local permits;•completing infrastructure and construction work and the completion of commissioning and integration of all of the systems comprising our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility;•negotiating sales and off-take contracts for our planned production;•the execution of any joint venture agreements or similar arrangements with strategic partners; and•other factors, many of which are beyond our control.Most of these activities require significant lead times and must be advanced concurrently.In addition, we have experienced delays associated with our modernization and expansion efforts at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. As a result, our production in 2013 and 2012 was substantially lower than expected, which led to lower than expected production volumes, revenues and cash flows, and delayed our realization of the benefits of our vertical integration strategy while our other operations continued to purchase raw materials from third parties rather than accepting delivery of products from our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. We expect production to continue at a lower level over the next several months. In addition, our chloralkali plant was not turned over to operations until February 2014, which has delayed our expected realization of lower production costs related to chemical reagents and process wastewater. Moreover, the final unit of our multi-stage cracking plant, which is part of a multi-stage chemical process designed to increase the facility's rare earth recovery rates, boost production throughput, and contribute to lower unit production cost, completed commissioning and became operational in late December 2013. Therefore, we have not yet realized our expected lower production costs, and any difficulties or delays in the optimization of the chloralkali plant and other plants that are expected to improve our operational efficiency at the Molycorp Mountain Pass facility would delay such cost reductions and negatively impacting cash flows. Any unanticipated costs or other further delays associated with our optimization efforts at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations and could require us to seek additional capital, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all.We may be unsuccessful in generating, securing and raising the necessary capital to execute our current business plan.While we have initiated measures to mitigate certain adverse cost trends and are continuing to re-evaluate the impact of cost pressures on the budget, we will incur additional costs if our mitigation measures are not successful.20We expect to finance the remaining capital expenditures and other capital expenditures related to operations at the Molycorp Mountain Pass facility and all other operating facilities, our selling, general and administrative expenses, the execution of our business plan, as well as our working capital requirements with the net proceeds from our October 2013 equity issuance, cash on hand, anticipated cash flows from operations at certain segments (before debt service) and potential proceeds from revolving credit facilities or certain equipment financing. We have no firm commitments for any revolving credit facilities or additional equipment financing and can provide no assurances that we will be able to obtain any commitments on acceptable terms or at all. Additionally, the full funding of our current business plan continues to be dependent on (i) the accuracy of our cost estimates for capital expenditures, (ii) our ability to ramp up run rates at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility pursuant to our expectations without further delays, and to achieve lower cash costs of production as a result of the commissioning of our chloralkali plant and further optimization of our multi-stage cracking unit, (iii) stable or improved market conditions, (iv) our ability to sell our production of rare earths (including our ability to sell our cerium through market acceptance of SorbX™ or otherwise) and (v) the absence of payments on current and future contingent liabilities. If these assumptions prove inaccurate, our estimates could prove incorrect and we may need additional financing.As part of our cash management procedures, we continue to evaluate opportunities to improve our liquidity, including potential proceeds from revolving credit facilities, and lease and loan financing for certain equipment, although we do not have any firm commitments for such revolving credit facilities.In the event that we are unable to obtain additional financing or we are not successful in curtailing and/or deferring capital expenditures we would have a liquidity shortfall and would be unable to execute our current business plan.The actual amount of capital required to optimize our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility may vary materially from our current estimates, in which case we would need to raise additional funds, which may delay operations and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.The anticipated funding required to optimize operations at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility is based on certain estimates and assumptions we have made about the time and effort required to complete such activities and other factors required to optimize operations at the project. If any of these estimates or assumptions change, the actual timing and amount of capital required to optimize operations of our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, including any future expansions, may vary materially from what we anticipate. Additional funds may be required in the event of significant departures from our current plan, unforeseen delays, cost overruns, engineering design changes or other unanticipated expenses. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available to us, or, if available, that it can be obtained on a timely basis and on commercially acceptable terms.There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete the expansion and modernization of our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility within our current timetable, that the actual costs of completion will not exceed our current estimated costs or that we will be able to secure off-take agreements for the incremental production capacity, and we cannot provide any assurance as to the actual operating costs once we have completed the capacity expansion.Our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility is the foundation for our vertical integration strategy and is the largest, most fully developed rare earths mine outside of China. It has been producing rare earth products for approximately 60 years. Our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility has a design capacity of 19,050 mt of REO (including LREC). Actual production of REO (including LREC) at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility has been lower than expected, as a result of production interruptions while we continue to optimize operations. We produced 1,099 mt and 1,000 mt of REO (including LREC) at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility during the third and fourth quarters of 2013, respectively. Actual production of REO (including LREC) during January 2014 was 412 mt, and we estimate that production of REO (including LREC) at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility will be approximately 400 mt in February 2014. We are currently targeting to gradually increase our production capacity during the remainder of 2014 to an annualized production rate of REO (including LREC) of approximately 23,000 mt during the fourth quarter of 2014, although actual production during the first half of the year is expected to be below the design capacity of 19,050 mt on an annualized basis. Actual production of REO (including LREC) during 2014 will depend on internal requirements for our Chemical and Oxides segment and our Magnetic Materials and Alloys segment and external customer demand as well as our success in ramping up and operating our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. We recently turned over to operations our chloralkali plant and the final unit of our multi-stage cracking unit. We continue to optimize the operation of our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. Upon optimization, we expect our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility to be able to operate at its design capacity and, depending upon the volume of rare earths production, we expect our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility to have production cash costs that are competitive with the lowest cost producers of rare earth products globally, but we can provide no assurances. Although the modernization and expansion of our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility was planned to allow a design capacity increase of up to 40,000 mt of REO (including LREC) per year, we will not expand production to the expanded 40,000 mt run rate (although we believe it will be able to produce in excess of 19,050 mt) unless market demand, 21product pricing, capital availability and financial returns justify such production. Our actual production rate will be influenced by customer demand and end-market conditions, among other factors.We do not believe we will need to obtain additional permits for the future expansion and modernization of our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, other than air and certain building permits and the modification of existing permits after 2021 in connection with the expansion of the pit boundary at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. However there is no assurance that we will not, in the future, learn of permits that we will be required to obtain or existing permits that we will be required to modify.We may not be able to realize the benefits of the expansion and modernization of our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility or be able to produce at the costs we are expecting. In particular, we will not be able to achieve anticipated production costs until the chloralkali plant and our multi-stage cracking unit are optimized, and any delays in such optimization will further exacerbate our higher cost structure. Any failure to successfully implement the expansion and modernization of our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility due to insufficient funding, delays or unanticipated costs, or to realize the anticipated benefits of the expansion and modernization of our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, including securing off-take commitments for the incremental production, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our growth depends in large part on the completion of the modernization and expansion of our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, which is our only rare earths mining facility.Our only rare earths mining facility at this time is our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. Our continued viability is based on successfully implementing our strategy, including completion of the expansion and modernization of our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility in accordance with our expected timeframe. The deterioration or destruction of any part of our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility may significantly hinder our ability to reach or maintain full planned run rates within the expected time frame or at all. If we are unsuccessful in reaching and maintaining full planned run rates for rare earths at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, within expected time frames or at all, we may not be able to build a sustainable or profitable business.We may not be able to develop sufficient internal and external sources of demand for the rare earth products manufactured at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility.We are working to establish stable internal and external sources of demand for the rare earth minerals and products we manufacture through our Resources segment at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. We intend to allocate a portion of such rare earth minerals and products to our Chemicals and Oxides segment and our Magnetic Materials and Alloys segment as feedstock for our fully integrated downstream manufacturing facilities. We intend to enter into purchase orders and short-term sales contracts, and long-term sales contracts, with existing and new customers for planned production of rare earth minerals and products manufactured through our Resources segment and not allocated internally, but currently do not have binding contracts for a material portion of the planned production. Our ability to execute this strategy depends on the extent to which we are able to generate sufficient demand for downstream products manufactured by our Chemicals and Oxides segment and our Magnetic Metals and Alloys segment to cover the allocation of feedstock intended for these segments, and our ability to enter into contracts with existing and new customers for the unallocated portion of the rare earth minerals and products manufactured through our Resources segment.A substantial portion of our current production from the Resources segment is cerium, which is in surplus and prices for which have declined significantly since 2011. In 2013, we completed a number of case studies at various plants using SorbX™, a cerium-based product, to remove contaminants from water. Based on the results from these case studies, we currently are working with some of our initial customers to use their plants to demonstrate the benefits of using SorbX™ to remove contaminants, including phosphates from wastewater. In 2013, we entered into a distribution agreement for SorbX™ for the removal of phosphates in the municipal and industrial wastewater markets, and have since sold limited quantities of SorbX™ directly to third-party customers. Beginning in 2013, we have been selling limited but consistent volumes of PhosFIX™, also a cerium-based product for recreational water applications.The failure to enter into additional binding contracts, or the failure to meet the conditions necessary for customers to commence or continue purchasing under existing agreements, or the failure to allocate production of rare earth minerals and products for use in our downstream facilities in the amounts intended, may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in demand for, and prices of, rare earth products.Because our primary source of revenue is the sale of rare earth minerals and products, changes in demand for, and the market price of, rare earth minerals and products could significantly affect our profitability. The value and price of our securities and our financial results may be adversely affected by declines in the prices of rare earth minerals and products. Rare earth minerals and product prices fluctuate and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control such as interest rates, 22exchange rates, inflation or deflation, fluctuation in the relative value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies on the world market, global and regional supply and demand for rare earth minerals and products, and the political and economic conditions of countries that produce rare earth minerals and products.As a result of the global economic crisis, rare earth product prices declined by approximately 50% between 2008 and the end of the third quarter of 2009 before increasing during 2010 and most of 2011 and then declining since then. Pricing for REEs has experienced significant volatility over the past several years due to a number of factors: the recent global financial crisis; a severe contraction by China, beginning in 2010, of rare earths it allowed for export; China's continuing efforts to institute stronger environmental reforms across its rare earths industry, force industry consolidation, and constrict rare earths production; a build-up of stockpiles by rare earths consumers and government entities; and a general lack of certainty among rare earths customers regarding the reliability of the future supply of REEs. Although current prices for all REEs other than lanthanum and cerium remain significantly higher than historic (pre-2010) levels, sales prices for REEs, as well as demand for REEs, began to weaken in the second quarter of 2012 and continued to decline through the end of that year, with further declines in 2013. For example, average prices for lanthanum oxide and cerium oxide have decreased significantly from their peak in July 2011 due, in part, to a reduction in reported speculative buying of rare earth materials in China, to flooding in Thailand leading to slower production in Asia and to a global economic slowdown. We believe the persistent global economic weakness combined with falling prices for REEs (which generally results in a very conservative purchasing pattern by our customers) unfavorably impacted the volume of products we shipped at our Molycorp Mountain Pass, Molycorp Canada and Silmet facilities in the fourth quarter of 2012 and in fiscal 2013, and negatively affected our revenue and cash flows from operations. Protracted periods of low prices and demand for rare earth minerals and products such that we saw in 2012 and 2013 could significantly reduce revenues and the availability of required development funds in the future. This could cause substantial reductions to, or a suspension of, rare earths production operations, impair asset values and reduce our proven and probable rare earth ore reserves.Demand for our products may be impacted by demand for downstream products incorporating rare earths, including hybrid and electric vehicles, wind power equipment and other clean technology products, as well as demand in the general automotive and electronic industries. Lack of growth in these markets may adversely affect the demand for our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.In contrast, extended periods of high commodity prices may create economic dislocations that may be destabilizing to rare earth minerals supply and demand and ultimately to the broader markets. Periods of high rare earth mineral market prices generally are beneficial to our financial performance. However, strong rare earth mineral prices, as well as real or perceived disruptions in the supply of rare earth minerals, also create economic pressure to identify or create alternate technologies that ultimately could depress future long-term demand for rare earth minerals and products, and at the same time may incentivize development of otherwise marginal mining properties. We believe this occurred recently, when rising prices in 2011 and the first half of 2012 prompted such industrial substitution. For example, automobile manufacturers have recently announced plans to develop motors for electric and hybrid cars that do not require rare earth metals due to concerns about the available supply of rare earths. If the automobile industry or other industries reduce their reliance on rare earth products, the resulting change in demand could have a material adverse effect on our business.Conditions in the rare earths industry have been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile, which could have a material impact on our company.Conditions in the rare earths industry have been extremely volatile, and prices, as well as supply and demand, have been significantly impacted by a number of factors, principally changes in economic conditions and demand for rare earth materials and changes, or perceived changes, in Chinese quotas for export of rare earth materials. As a result of the global economic crisis, rare earth product prices declined by approximately 50% between 2008 and the end of the third quarter of 2009. According to Metal-Pages, from the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2009 through the end of 2011, average prices for rare earths rose by approximately 1,100%. Furthermore, over the same period, average prices for some of the most common rare earths (cerium oxide, lanthanum oxide, neodymium oxide, and praseodymium oxide) rose by more than 1,000%. Average prices for lanthanum oxide and cerium oxide decreased by approximately 50% during the second half of 2011 due, in part, to a reduction in reported speculative buying of rare earth materials in China, flooding in Thailand leading to slower production in Asia and a global economic slowdown. Prices continued to decline though 2013. If conditions in our industry remain volatile, our stock price may continue to exhibit volatility as well. In particular, if prices or demand for rare earths were to decline, our stock price would likely decline, and this could also impair our ability to find purchasers for our products at prices acceptable to us.We operate in a highly competitive industry.The rare earths mining and processing markets are capital intensive and competitive. Our Chinese competitors may have greater financial resources, as well as other strategic advantages to maintain, improve and possibly expand their facilities. Additionally, the Chinese producers have historically been able to produce at relatively low costs due to domestic economic 23factors. Even upon successful implementation of the new processing technologies and capabilities at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, if we are not able to achieve anticipated costs of production, then any strategic advantages that our competitors may have over us, such as lower labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business.The success of our business will depend, in part, on the establishment of new uses and markets for rare earth products.The success of our business will depend, in part, on the establishment of new markets by us or third parties for certain rare earth products that may be in low demand. For example, cerium is, and is expected to remain, in global surplus. Although we have developed a proprietary line of cerium-based water treatment products, including SorbX™ and PhosFIX™, these products have been sold only in limited commercial quantities and have yet to be fully commercialized. In addition, although we are developing rare earth products for use in NdFeB magnets, which are used in critical existing and emerging technologies, such as hybrid and electric vehicles, wind power turbines and compact fluorescent lighting, the success of our business depends on creating new markets and successfully commercializing rare earth products in existing and emerging markets. Any unexpected costs or delays in the commercialization of any of the foregoing products and applications could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.An increase in the global supply of rare earth products, dumping and predatory pricing by our competitors may materially adversely affect our profitability.The pricing and demand for our products is affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including growth of economic development and the global supply and demand for rare earth products. According to IMCOA, it is estimated that China accounted for approximately 86% of global rare earths production in 2012. China also dominates the manufacture of metals and NdFeB magnets from rare earths, a capacity that is not currently found in the United States. Once we reach full planned run rates for rare earths and other planned downstream products, the increased competition may lead our competitors to engage in predatory pricing behavior. Any increase in the amount of rare earth products exported from other nations and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of potential market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our profitability. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to compete effectively against current and future competitors.Changes in China's export policy may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.In 1999, the government of China introduced an export quota system for the rare earths industry. The Chinese government heightened international supply concerns beginning in August 2009 when China's Interior Ministry first signaled that it would further restrict exports of Chinese rare earth resources. Citing the importance of the availability of REEs to internal industries and the desire to conserve resources, the Chinese government has announced export quotas, increased export tariffs and introduced a "mining quotas policy" that, in addition to imposing export quotas and export tariffs, also imposes production quotas and limits the issuance of new licenses for rare earths exploration. According to IMCOA, China's export quotas have decreased from approximately 65,000 mt of rare earth products in 2005 to approximately 30,184 mt of rare earth products in 2011. The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Commerce, or MOFCOM, increased China's export quota slightly in 2012, up to 30,996 mt of rare earth products, or approximately 3% from 2011. In 2008, China imposed export taxes of up to 25% on selected rare earths (primarily heavy separated rare earth oxides) and up to 15% for all other rare earths (primarily light rare earth oxides).On March 13, 2012, the United States, the European Union and Japan filed a complaint with the World Trade Organization over the Chinese export policy on rare earths. If this challenge to the Chinese export policy is successful, there could be increased supply in the world market for rare earths, which could cause the price of rare earths to decrease. If the price of rare earths decreases, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.Molycorp Canada has operations in China and its ability to export is subject to certain quotas based on its export history and export value. Historically, Molycorp Canada has been able to secure sufficient quotas to meet its demands. While export quotas have become less relevant to the business of Molycorp Canada, any restrictions to the quota grants or policy could have a material impact on the results of Molycorp Canada.Changes in China's policy or the interpretation of China's policy on rare earths production or the import of rare earth feedstock may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Our ability to capture the expected cost reductions in the production of rare earth products at Molycorp Canada's operations in China depends on our ability to import rare earths into China produced from our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. Restrictions by China on the production of rare earth products in China or the import of rare earths into China for the production of rare earth products would adversely affect Molycorp Canada's ability to process rare earths produced from our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility in its operations in China, and have an adverse impact on the results of Molycorp Canada.24We may not successfully establish or maintain collaborative, joint venture and licensing arrangements, or establish new ones, which could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our rare earth products.A key element of our business strategy is to utilize vertical integration through further downstream processing of our rare earths into rare earth metal alloys and finished magnets for clean-energy, high-technology and defense applications. Our acquisitions of Molycorp Silmet and MMA, our joint venture agreement with Mitsubishi and Daido, and the Molycorp Canada acquisition reflect this strategy. To implement this vertical integration strategy successfully, we may need to form other joint ventures with existing magnet producers for the final production of finished rare earth magnets. In addition, other licenses that may be necessary for some of these downstream processing steps have not yet been obtained. Any failure to establish or maintain collaborative, joint venture or licensing arrangements for the production of downstream products on favorable terms could adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition or ability to develop and commercialize downstream rare earth products.We face a variety of risks associated with acquiring and integrating new business operations that could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We acquired Molycorp Canada in 2012 for its proven leadership in the development, processing and distribution of technically advanced rare earth products and to achieve greater exposure to China, one of the world's largest and fastest-growing rare earths consuming market. In 2011, we acquired Molycorp Silmet in order to increase our production capacity for rare earths and rare earth metals, and acquired MMA in order to provide us with the capability to immediately begin manufacturing and selling rare earth alloys for the production of NdFeB and samarium cobalt, or SmCo, magnets, as well as a variety of other specialty alloys and products. We may in the future pursue other strategic acquisitions that we believe would expand our product offerings and capabilities or complement our business. We have limited experience making such acquisitions. Any acquisition that we make will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of businesses. The process of integrating acquired businesses, products or technologies may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. We may have difficulty integrating and assimilating the operations and personnel of any acquired companies, realizing anticipated synergies and maximizing the financial and strategic position of the combined enterprise. We may incur costs necessary to reorganize, expand or otherwise modify existing operations to meet future production needs, and we may also incur closure, demolition and carrying costs for portions of properties, for which we have no operational uses. We may also have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, policies and controls across the organization. The process of integrating acquired businesses may also result in a diversion of management's attention and cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, our activities. Additionally, any acquisition that we make may result in the assumption of material liabilities. Businesses and properties we acquire may be in an unexpected condition and may subject us to increased costs and liabilities, including environmental liabilities. The costs and liabilities associated with known risks may be greater than expected, and we may assume unknown liabilities, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Foreign acquisitions involve risks in addition to those mentioned above, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. As a result of these risks, the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions may not be fully realized, if at all, and the acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We have a significant amount of goodwill, and any future goodwill impairment charges could adversely impact our results of operations.Following goodwill impairment charges of approximately $289.9 million and $11.0 million that we recognized in 2012 and 2013, respectively, we had goodwill of $228.8 million at December 31, 2013. The occurrence of potential indicators of impairment affecting any of our reporting units, such as a longer than anticipated soft rare earths pricing environment, loss of some end-markets for our products, a material negative change in relationships with significant customers, strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions, weak growth for some of our new applications, and delays in optimizing operations at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility that may defer our ability to enter into longer term contracts, could result in further goodwill impairment charges, which could adversely impact our net results of operations. We have suffered and continue to suffer from soft pricing environments and increased stock price volatility, and, in connection with the ordinary course preparation of our financial statements, will evaluate if we will need to record additional impairment charges as required under generally accepted accounting principles.Our business will be adversely affected if we do not successfully implement new processing technologies and capabilities.Our processing technologies and capabilities are key components of our competitive strengths and are expected to contribute to low operating costs and increasing the life of the ore body at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. In the second quarter of 2010, we began to process bastnasite concentrate from our stockpiles in an effort to significantly improve these technologies and capabilities and optimize recovery rates. Although this effort has been successful at pilot-scale level with over 2595% recovery, we may not be able to scale the new technology and recovery rates to commercial levels at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, or may not be able to do so as planned. We are also working to optimize other steps in our production process including our multi-stage cracking unit and chloralkali facility. Any failure may affect our ability to achieve the expected benefits of the new technologies and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.Markets for Molycorp Canada's rare earths, zirconium or other minor metal-based products are highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. Molycorp Canada's future successes depend upon its ability to continue to provide products that achieve market acceptance. As technologies develop, substitutes may be developed for Molycorp Canada's products that may have an adverse impact on the marketability of Molycorp Canada's products. Since Molycorp Canada specializes in a limited number of products, there is a risk that their replacement by other products may have a material adverse impact on Molycorp Canada's sales.Power shortages at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility may temporarily delay mining and processing operations and increase costs, which may materially adversely impact our business.Due to its position on the regional electric grid, our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility faces occasional power shortages during peak periods. Instability in electrical supply in past years has caused sporadic outages and brownouts and higher costs. Such outages and brownouts have had a negative impact on production. We have installed a natural gas powered co-generation power plant as part of our modernization and expansion of our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility to reduce energy costs at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility as well as minimize or eliminate our reliance on the regional electric power grid. If this co-generation power plant is unable to provide sufficient power for the operation of our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, we will remain subject to the effects of occasional power outages and brownouts and could experience temporary interruptions of mining and processing operations. We then may be unable to fill customer orders in a timely manner and may be subject to higher power costs at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. As a result, our revenue could be adversely impacted and our relationships with our customers could suffer, adversely impacting our ability to generate future revenue. In addition, if power to our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility is disrupted during certain phases of our rare earths extraction process, we may incur significant expenses that may adversely affect our business.Increasing costs or limited access to raw materials may adversely affect our profitability.We use significant amounts of hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide as chemicals to process rare earths. We ultimately intend to produce our own hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. However, the technology we developed to internally produce hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide has to be further optimized in order to produce sufficient volumes of those chemical reagents. Accordingly, we still purchase hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide in the open market and, as a result, we could be subject to significant volatility in the cost or availability of these chemicals. We may not be able to pass increased prices for these chemicals through to our customers in the form of price increases. A significant increase in the price, or decrease in the availability, of these chemicals before we produce them on site could materially increase our operating costs and adversely affect our profit margins from quarter to quarter.Molycorp Canada is vulnerable to any volatility in the prices of raw materials because it does not currently have long-term supply contracts. The Chinese government is aggressively monitoring and regulating rare earth mining operations. In some cases, it is shutting down or curtailing illegal or environmentally damaging mining activities. This could have an adverse impact on rare earth raw materials supply. Although we believe there is an adequate supply of rare earths feedstock for Molycorp Canada's processing facilities, there is no assurance that the prices of such rare earths feedstock will not rise dramatically, in which case the increased cost of production may have a material adverse effect on the profit margins of Molycorp Canada. Such rises in the prices of rare earths feedstock may be offset by increasing the prices of Molycorp Canada's rare earth related products; however, there is no assurance that the market will bear such price increases and even if the market will bear such increases, the Molycorp Magnequench business will have an increased cost of production since rare earths are a primary raw material. In addition, if market prices for mixed rare earth oxides and zirconium products decline, there is no assurance that raw material prices will decline sufficiently or in tandem to offset the decline in selling prices. The above could have a material effect on Molycorp Canada's profit margins. Molycorp Canada is also dependent on being able to secure an adequate supply of gallium, indium or rhenium bearing scrap at economic prices, to maintain and grow its recycling business.Fluctuations in transportation costs or disruptions in transportation services could increase competition or impair our ability to supply rare earth minerals or products to our customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations.We transport cerium, lanthanum, neodymium, praseodymium and didymium oxide products from our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility to our Molycorp Silmet and MMA facilities, and to some of our Molycorp Canada facilities around the world. Finding affordable and dependable transportation is important because it allows us to supply customers, third parties under tolling agreements and our operating facilities around the world. Labor disputes, derailments, adverse weather conditions or 26other environmental events and changes to rail or ocean freight systems could interrupt or limit available transport services, which could result in customer dissatisfaction and loss of sales potential and could materially adversely affect our results of operations.We must process rare earths to exacting specifications in order to provide customers with a consistently high quality product. An inability to perfect the mineral extraction process to meet individual customer specifications may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.We process rare earths to meet customer needs and specifications and to provide customers with a consistently high quality product and a purity higher than previously achieved in prior mining operations at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. An inability to perfect the mineral extraction process to meet individual customer specifications may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, customer needs and specifications may change with time. Any delay or failure in developing processes to meet changing customer needs and specifications may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.Diminished access to water may adversely affect our operations.Processing of rare earths at our facilities requires significant amounts of water. The technology we are optimizing at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility to significantly reduce our need for fresh water, including the proprietary production of our own hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide from wastewater at our own chloralkali plant, has not yet been fully optimized. Any decrease or disruption in our available water supply until this technology is successfully developed may have a material adverse effect on our operations and our financial condition or results of operations.Inaccuracies in our estimates of rare earths reserves and resource deposits could result in lower than expected revenues and higher than expected costs.We base our rare earths reserve and resource estimates on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by outside firms, which are reviewed by our engineers and geologists. Ore reserve estimates, however, are necessarily imprecise and depend to some extent on statistical inferences drawn from available drilling data, which may prove unreliable. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of rare earths reserves and non-reserve rare earths deposits and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of economically recoverable rare earths reserves necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, all of which may vary considerably from actual results, such as:•geological and mining conditions and/or effects from prior mining that may not be fully identified by available data or that may differ from experience;•assumptions concerning future prices of rare earth products, operating costs, mining technology improvements, development costs and reclamation costs; and•assumptions concerning future effects of regulation, including the issuance of required permits and taxes by governmental agencies.In April 2012, we revised our reserve estimate based on a topography as of January 4, 2012. While our probable reserves increased, our proven reserves decreased significantly. We have updated our proven reserve estimates since then by deducting our annual production from our reserves. Revised market prices and our revised operating cost estimates could impact the level of economically recoverable reserves. Any inaccuracy in our estimates related to our rare earths reserves and non-reserve rare earths deposits could result in lower than expected revenues and higher than expected costs or a shortened estimated life for the mine at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility.Period-to-period conversion of probable rare earths ore reserves to proven ore reserves may result in increases or decreases to the total reported amount of ore reserves. Conversion, an indicator of the success in upgrading probable ore reserves to proven ore reserves, is evaluated annually. Conversion rates are affected by a number of factors, including geological variability, applicable mining methods and changes in safe mining practices, economic considerations and new regulatory requirements.Work stoppages or similar difficulties could significantly disrupt our operations, reduce our revenues and materially adversely affect our results of operations.As of December 31, 2013, 237 employees at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility were covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the United Steelworkers of America that expires in March 2015. Also as of December 31, 2013, 171 employees at our Molycorp Silmet facility were unionized employees. A work stoppage at either or both our Molycorp Mountain Pass or 27Molycorp Silmet facilities could significantly disrupt our operations, reduce our revenues and materially adversely affect our results of operations.A shortage of skilled technicians and engineers may further increase operating costs, which may materially adversely affect our results of operations.Efficient production of rare earth products using modern techniques and equipment requires skilled technicians and engineers. In addition, our expansion efforts will significantly increase the number of skilled technicians and engineers required to successfully operate our business. In the event that we are unable to hire and train the necessary number of skilled technicians and engineers, there could be an adverse impact on our labor costs and our ability to reach full planned production levels in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.We depend on key personnel for the success of our business.We depend on the services of our senior management team and other key personnel. The loss of the services of any member of senior management or a key employee could have an adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to locate, attract or employ on acceptable terms qualified replacements for senior management or other key employees if their services are no longer available.Because of the dangers involved in the mining of minerals and the manufacture of mineral products, there is a risk that we may incur liability or damages as we conduct our business.The mining of minerals and the manufacture of mineral products involves numerous hazards, including:•unusual and unexpected rock formations affecting ore or wall rock characteristics;•ground or slope failures;•the use of explosives in mining operations;•environmental hazards;•industrial accidents;•processing problems;•the use of hazardous chemicals in manufacturing operations, including at elevated pressures and temperatures; •periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions or other acts of God; and•mechanical equipment failure and facility performance problems.Although we maintain insurance to address certain risks involved in our business, such as coverage for property damage, business interruption and workers' compensation, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain insurance to cover these risks at economically feasible premiums. Additionally, we cannot be certain that all claims we may make under our insurance policies will be deemed to be within the scope of, or fully covered by, our policies. Furthermore, we do not maintain coverage for losses resulting from acts of terrorism. We might also become subject to liability for environmental damage or other hazards that may be uninsurable or for which we may elect not to insure because of premium costs or commercial impracticality. Additionally, these policies contain limits of coverage and exclusions that are typical of such policies generally. The payment of such premiums, or the assumption of such liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.We are currently subject to litigation, including a stockholder class action litigation and derivative litigation, the unfavorable outcome of which might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flow.From time to time, we may become subject to various legal and regulatory proceedings relating to our business.In February 2012, a purported class action lawsuit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Colorado against us and certain of our current and former executive officers alleging violations of the federal securities laws. The Consolidated Class Action Complaint filed on July 31, 2012 also names most of our Board members and some of our stockholders as defendants, along with other persons and entities. That Complaint alleges 18 claims for relief arising out of alleged: (1) securities fraud in violation of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, during the proposed class period from February 11, 2011 through November 10, 2011; and (2) materially untrue or misleading statements in registration statements 28and prospectuses for our public offering of preferred stock in February 2011 and of common stock in June 2011, in violation of the Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Act. Our motion to dismiss that Complaint was filed in October 2012 and is pending. We believe that this lawsuit is without merit, and we intend to vigorously defend ourselves against these claims.A consolidated shareholder derivative lawsuit filed purportedly on our behalf against us (as a nominal defendant) and certain of our current and former directors, executive officers and shareholders is pending in the Delaware Court of Chancery. In August 2012, a consolidated amended shareholder derivative complaint was filed, asserting causes of action for alleged: (1) breach of fiduciary duty, including the duties of loyalty and due care; (2) breach of fiduciary duty not to trade on or misuse material non-public information; (3) unjust enrichment; and (4) aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty. On our behalf, the plaintiffs in the consolidated derivative action seek, among other things, monetary damages, restitution, and an accounting. The defendants filed motions to dismiss and motions to stay that action in October 2012. Pursuant to an order dated May 15, 2013, the Delaware Court of Chancery stayed the derivative lawsuit pending final disposition of the purported class action lawsuit. On October 9, 2013, certain plaintiffs, on our behalf, filed a Motion to Lift the Stay and for Leave to File an Amended Complaint. All briefs in respect of this motion have been filed, and a hearing on the motion was held on February 7, 2014. Two additional shareholder derivative lawsuits that were filed in the U.S. District Court in Colorado have been dismissed, but the plaintiffs in those cases pursued an appeal of that ruling in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. On August 20, 2013, the Tenth Circuit remanded these cases back to the Colorado District Court. Both we and the plaintiffs have filed their respective briefs in the remanded proceeding and the decision of the Colorado District Court is pending. Subsequently, a different shareholder filed purportedly on our behalf a new shareholder derivative lawsuit in the U.S. District Court in Colorado on November 20, 2013. On December 11, 2013, the Colorado District Court sua sponte consolidated the new derivative lawsuit with the two remanded lawsuits, and permitted the plaintiff in the new derivative lawsuit to file a brief in the remanded proceeding. On December 27, 2013, the plaintiff in the new derivative lawsuit filed its brief in the remanded proceeding, and filed a motion to vacate the consolidation order. The decision of the Colorado District Court on each of the remanded proceeding and the motion to vacate the consolidation order is pending. Pursuant to an order the Colorado District Court entered on January 7, 2014, the defendants need not respond to the new derivative lawsuit until the Colorado District Court decides the defendants’ motion to dismiss or stay the remanded proceeding.In August 2013, two purported class action lawsuits were filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against us and certain of our current and former executive officers, alleging violations of the federal securities laws. The purported class action lawsuits allege claims for relief arising out of alleged securities fraud in violation of the Exchange Act during the proposed class period from August 2, 2012 through August 7, 2013. Pursuant to stipulations and orders of the court dated September 25, 2013 and September 27, 2013, among other things, the deadlines for us and our current and former executive officers to respond to the lawsuits have been stayed pending appointment of a lead plaintiff under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. We believe that the lawsuits are without merit, and we intend to vigorously defend ourselves against these claims.Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, including the current purported class action lawsuit and derivative lawsuits, we cannot determine with certainty the ultimate outcome of any such litigation or proceedings. If the final resolution of any such litigation or proceedings is unfavorable, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially affected.We conduct our sales and distribution operations on a worldwide basis and are subject to the risks associated with doing business outside the United States.We sell to customers outside of the United States from our United States and international operations. The consummation of the Molycorp Canada acquisition expanded our manufacturing presence and geographic reach in Asian markets. International shipments account for a significant portion of our sales as a result of the Molycorp Canada acquisition.There are a number of additional risks associated with international business activities, including:•burdens to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting foreign laws and regulations, including export requirements, tariffs and other barriers, environmental health and safety requirements and unexpected changes in any of these factors;•restrictions on export quotas granted by the Chinese government for certain Molycorp Canada production;•to the extent cash is held outside of the United States, our repatriation of such cash is subject to the approval of foreign governments and to the potentially adverse impact of foreign and domestic tax laws;•political and economic instability and disruptions, including terrorist attacks; 29•disadvantages of competing against companies from countries that are not subject to U.S. laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA;•potentially adverse tax consequences due to overlapping or differing tax structures; and•fluctuations in currency exchange rates.Any of these risks could have an adverse effect on our international operations by reducing the demand for our products or reducing the prices at which we can sell our products, which could result in an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.In addition, we could be adversely affected by violations of the FCPA and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We cannot assure you that our internal controls and procedures always will protect us from the reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. If we are found to be liable for FCPA violations, we could suffer from criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.Additionally, in connection with the disclosure requirements mandated by Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, certain of our customers have requested that we certify whether any "conflict minerals" (as such term is defined in Section 1502) used in the manufacturing of our rare earth products come from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (or an adjoining country). In January 2014, our Molycorp Silmet facility received a certification by the EICC that its purchases of tantalum comply with the CFS program assessment protocol through July 2014. During the period we were conducting the analysis of our supply chain that led to this certification, we lost tantalum sales to competitors who had already received EICC certifications. Delays in resuming tantalum sales to the customers we have lost to competitors during the analysis of our supply chain could continue to adversely affect the results of operations in our Rare Metals segment in the near future. Molycorp Canada's international operations in China and Thailand are subject to a number of special risks including trade barriers, exchange controls and restrictions on currency conversion, political risks and risks of increased duties, taxes, tariffs and governmental royalties, as well as changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies such as embargos. A change in policies by the Chinese or Thai governments could adversely affect Molycorp Canada's investment in its production facilities by, among other factors, changes in laws or regulations or changes in the interpretation thereof. Despite the activity and progress in developing their legal systems, neither China nor Thailand has a system of laws as comprehensive as in Canada or the United States.Molycorp Canada's financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, which is subject to fluctuations in respect of the currencies of the countries in which Molycorp Canada operates. We expect Molycorp Canada's revenues to be earned in a number of different currencies. Accordingly, fluctuations in the exchange rates of world currencies could have a positive or negative effect on Molycorp Canada's reported results on a consolidated basis. Given the constantly changing currency exposures and the substantial volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon Molycorp Canada's future operating results. There can be no assurance that Molycorp Canada will not experience currency losses in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on Molycorp Canada's business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. In the event of a change in the value of the Chinese Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar, there is no assurance, due to competitive pressure, of a corresponding change in selling prices of Molycorp Canada's products. Molycorp Canada exports a significant portion of its products produced in China. These exports are invoiced and paid for primarily in U.S. dollars.At December 31, 2013, Molycorp Canada held cash, net of bank advances in China and Japan, of $126.6 million in the aggregate. Molycorp Canada does not hedge the impact of revaluation of the Renminbi or the Yen.We are dependent upon information technology systems, which are subject to disruption, damage, failure and risks associated with implementation and integration.We are increasingly dependent upon information technology systems in the conduct of our operations. Our information technology systems are subject to disruption, damage or failure from a variety of sources, including, without limitation, fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses and disabling devices, security breaches, cyber attacks, natural disasters and defects in design. Damage, disruption, or failure of one or more information technology systems may result in interruptions to our operations. Systems failures could result in reputational damage to our business and cause us to incur significant costs and third party liability. Various measures have been implemented to manage the risks related to our 30information technology systems, but our business, financial position or results of operations could be adversely impacted by such interruptions.We could also be adversely affected by system or network disruptions if new or upgraded information technology systems are defective, not installed properly or not properly integrated into our operations. We have begun the implementation of new enterprise software that we will use for our marketing, sales, manufacturing, logistics, customer service and accounting functions. If we are not able to successfully implement our new enterprise software in a timely manner across our operating segments, including our international operations, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could adversely impact the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting.Risks Relating to Our DebtOur substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our debt service and other obligations.We have substantial debt and, as a result, we have significant debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2013, our total consolidated indebtedness was approximately $1,485.8 million (excluding capital lease obligations of $21.6 million and without giving effect to the equity component of convertible debt or any debt discount). Our substantial debt could have important consequences to you. For example, it could:•make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations under our debt and our contractual and commercial commitments and increase the risk that we may default on our debt obligations;•prevent us from raising the funds necessary to repurchase our senior secured notes tendered to us if there is a change of control, which would constitute a default under the indenture, governing our senior secured notes;•require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our debt, which would reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;•limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other investments, or general corporate purposes, which may limit the ability to execute our business strategy;•heighten our vulnerability to downturns in our business, our industry or in the general economy and restrict us from exploiting business opportunities or making acquisitions;•place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that may have less debt;•make it more difficult for us to obtain goods and services on commercially reasonable terms;•limit management's discretion in operating our business;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate or the general economy; and•result in higher interest expense if interest rates increase and we have outstanding floating rate borrowings.We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future. If new debt or other liabilities are added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify.We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our debt, which may not be successful.Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations and to fund planned capital expenditures and expansion efforts and any strategic alliances or acquisitions we may make in the future depends on our ability to generate cash in the future and our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our debt.If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our debt. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. If our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We 31may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceed may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Further, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all.Restrictive covenants in the indenture governing our senior secured notes and the agreements governing our other indebtedness will restrict our ability to operate our business.The senior secured indenture governing our senior secured notes contains, and agreements governing indebtedness we may incur in the future may contain, covenants that restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional debt, pay dividends, make investments, enter into transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate with other entities or sell all or substantially all of our assets. Additionally, any asset-based credit facility may require us to maintain certain financial ratios. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default thereunder, which could allow the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding under the applicable debt immediately due and payable. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants under our indebtedness.Risks Related to Intellectual PropertyWe may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. If we fail to adequately enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, our business may be harmed.Much of the technology used in the markets in which we compete is protected by patents and trade secrets, and our commercial success will depend in significant part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and trade secret protection for our products and methods. To compete in these markets, we rely on a combination of trade secret protection, nondisclosure and licensing agreements, patents and trademarks to establish and protect our proprietary intellectual property rights, including our proprietary rare earth production processes that are not patented. We intend to rely on patented products and applications, such as using rare earths for water treatment, and related licensing agreements to establish proprietary markets for low demand REEs. We are evaluating our current patent portfolio in order to focus our efforts on patents and patent applications that provide value to our businesses. As a result of this evaluation, we may abandon certain patents and decide not to pursue further certain patent applications.These intellectual property rights may be challenged or infringed upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new license agreements with third-party owners of intellectual property on reasonable terms. Identifying unauthorized use of our intellectual property may be difficult, and proceedings to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights could result in substantial costs. The enforcement of intellectual property rights is subject to considerable uncertainty, and patent reform laws, including the recently-enacted America Invents Act, and court decisions interpreting such laws, may create additional uncertainty around our ability to obtain and enforce patent protection for our technologies. If we seek to enforce our rights, we may also be subject to claims that our intellectual property rights are invalid or otherwise unenforceable. In addition, our intellectual property may be subject to infringement or other unauthorized use outside of the United States. In such case, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights by legal recourse or otherwise may be limited, particularly in countries where laws or enforcement practices are undeveloped or do not recognize or protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights or our inability to preserve existing intellectual property rights could therefore adversely impact our competitive position and results of operations. The loss of our patents could also reduce the value of the related products. In addition, the cost to litigate infringements of our intellectual property, or the cost to defend ourselves against intellectual property infringement actions by others, could be substantial.Proprietary trade secrets and unpatented know-how are also very important to our business. We rely on trade secrets to protect certain aspects of our technology, especially where we do not believe that patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our confidential information to competitors, and confidentiality agreements may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential or proprietary information. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position.In addition, Molycorp Canada's current intellectual property position is dependent primarily on the essential nature of certain fundamental patents covering bonded magnets made with NdFeB powder and Molycorp Canada's manufacturing process for NdFeB powder. The most effective of these patents expires in July 2014. While Molycorp Canada holds a wide range of additional patents and patent applications whose expiration dates extend (and in the case of patent applications, will extend, if issued) beyond 2014, none are of an equally essential nature as Molycorp Canada's fundamental patents and exclusive 32rights, and therefore Molycorp Canada will have increased competitive pressure as a result of the expiration of such patents. Molycorp Canada may therefore be unable to defend against new competitors entering the marketplace or maintain its existing pricing power.We may not be able to obtain additional patents and the legal protection afforded by any additional patents may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage.Our ability to obtain additional patents is uncertain and the legal protection afforded by these patents is limited and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. In addition, the scope and enforceability of patent claims is highly uncertain due to the complex nature of the relevant legal, scientific and factual issues. Changes in either patent laws or interpretations of patent laws in the United States or elsewhere (including the recently enacted America Invents Act) may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. Even if patents are issued relating to our products and processes, our competitors may challenge the validity of those patents. Patents also will not protect our products and processes if competitors devise ways of making products without infringing our patents.If we infringe, or are accused of infringing, the intellectual property rights of third parties, it may increase our costs or prevent us from being able to sell our existing products or commercialize new products.There is a risk that we may infringe, or may be accused of infringing, the proprietary rights of third parties, including rights under patents and pending patent applications belonging to third parties that may exist in the United States and elsewhere in the world. Because the patent application process can take several years to complete, and patent applications may remain unpublished for 18 months or more, there may be currently pending applications, including applications of which we are currently unaware, that may later result in issued patents that cover our products and processes. In addition, our products and processes may infringe existing patents.Defending ourselves against third-party claims, including litigation in particular, would be costly and time consuming and would divert management's attention from our business, which could lead to delays in our expansion and modernization efforts. If third parties are successful in their claims, we might have to pay substantial damages or take other actions that are adverse to our business. As a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we might:•be prohibited from, or delayed in, selling or licensing some of our products or using some of our processes unless the intellectual property holder licenses the applicable intellectual property to us, which it is not required to do;•be required to pay substantial royalties or grant a cross license to our intellectual property to another intellectual property holder; or•be required to redesign a product or process so it does not infringe a third party's intellectual property, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds and time and ultimately result in an inferior product or process.In addition, we could be subject to claims that our employees, or we, have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of third parties.If we are unable to resolve claims that may be brought against us by third parties related to their intellectual property rights on terms acceptable to us, in addition to paying substantial damages and royalties, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights and be precluded from offering some of our products or using some of our processes.Risks Related to Environmental RegulationOur operations are subject to extensive and costly environmental requirements; and current and future laws, regulations and permits will impose significant costs, liabilities or obligations or could limit or prevent our ability to continue our current operations or to undertake new operations.We are subject to numerous and detailed international, national, federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and permits, including those pertaining to employee health and safety, environmental permitting and licensing, air quality standards, greenhouse gas, or GHG, emissions, water usage and disposal, pollution, waste management, plant and wildlife protection, including the protection of endangered species, handling and disposal of radioactive substances, remediation of soil and groundwater contamination, land use, reclamation and restoration of properties, the discharge of materials into the environment and groundwater quality and availability. Our operations in Europe are subject to the environmental laws and regulations applicable to European Union member countries. These requirements may result in significant costs, liabilities and obligations, impose conditions that are difficult to achieve or otherwise delay, limit or prohibit current or planned operations. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations, the suspension or revocation of permits and other sanctions. Pursuant to such requirements, we may also be subject to third-party claims, including for damages to property or injury to persons arising 33from our operations. Moreover, these environmental requirements, and the interpretation and enforcement thereof, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. For example, GHG emission regulation is becoming more rigorous. As a result of our expansion at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, we are required to report annual GHG emissions from our operations and to comply with the GHG cap and trade regulations promulgated by the state of California. The U.S. Congress is considering various legislative proposals to address climate change. In addition, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has issued regulations, including the "Tailoring Rule," that subject GHG emissions from certain stationary sources to the Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. Any such regulations could require us to modify existing permits or obtain new permits, implement additional pollution control technology, curtail operations or increase significantly our operating costs, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, reputation, operating performance and product demand. Any future changes in these laws, regulations or permits (or the interpretation or enforcement thereof) or any sanctions, damages, costs, obligations or liabilities in respect of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Molycorp Canada, whose operations comprise a significant portion of the Chemicals and Oxides, Magnetic Materials and Alloys and Rare Metals segments, is subject to numerous and increasingly rigorous international, national, federal, state and local laws, regulations and permits affecting the mineral processing industry, including those pertaining to employee health and safety, environmental permitting and licensing, air quality standards, GHG emissions, water usage and disposal, pollution, waste management, plant and wildlife protection, handling and disposal of radioactive substances, remediation of soil and groundwater contamination, and the discharge of materials into the environment. Pursuant to certain environmental laws, regulations and permits, Molycorp Canada may be subject to claims for toxic torts, natural resource damages and other liabilities, as well as for the investigation and remediation of soil, surface water, groundwater and other environmental media. Molycorp Canada's failure to comply with these laws and regulations, or changes in such laws and regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, and to obtain such permits could have a material adverse effect on Molycorp Canada's business, financial condition and results of operations. Specifically, Molycorp Canada is subject both to Chinese national and local environmental protection regulations that currently impose a graduated schedule of fees for the discharge of waste substances, require the payment of fines for discharges exceeding the standards, and provide for the closure of any facility which fails to comply with orders requiring it to cease or remedy certain activities causing environmental damage.We are subject to the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, the California Labor Code and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, and various regulations applicable in the other countries where we operate, which impose stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of our operations.Our operations at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility are subject to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, as amended by the Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response Act of 2006, and the regulations adopted by the California Occupational Safety and Health Administration, which impose stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of mineral extraction and processing operations, including the training of personnel, operating procedures, operating equipment and other matters. Our operations at our U.S. facilities are also subject to the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970. Our operations outside the U.S. are subject to local health and safety requirements.Our failure to comply with these or other applicable safety and health standards, or changes in such standards or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or otherwise impose significant restrictions on our ability to conduct our operations.Our operations may affect the environment or cause exposure to hazardous substances, any of which could result in material costs, obligations or liabilities.Our operations currently use, and in the past have used, hazardous materials and generate, and in the past have generated, hazardous and naturally occurring radioactive wastes. Our Molycorp Silmet facility in Estonia has a long history of industrial use, including uranium ore and alum shale processing, as a result of which its operations may have impacted the environment. In addition, our Estonian operations require the management and disposal of radioactive wastes. Our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility has been used for mining and related purposes since 1952, and contamination is known to exist around the facility. We may be subject to claims under environmental laws, regulations and permits for toxic torts, natural resource damages and other liabilities, as well as for the investigation and remediation of soil, surface water, groundwater and other environmental media. Our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility is currently subject to an order issued by the Lahontan Regional Water Quality Control Board pursuant to which we have conducted various investigatory and remedial actions, primarily related to certain onsite impoundments, including groundwater monitoring, extraction and treatment and soil remediation. We are still in the process of delineating the extent of groundwater contamination at and around the facility and cannot assure you that we will not incur material costs relating to the remediation of such contamination. In addition to claims arising out of our current or former properties, such claims may arise in connection with contaminated third-party sites at which we have disposed of waste. As a matter of law, and despite any contractual indemnity or allocation arrangements or acquisition agreements to the contrary, our 34liability for these claims may be joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of any contamination, or even for the entire share. These and similar unforeseen impacts that our operations may have on the environment, as well as human exposure to hazardous or radioactive materials or wastes associated with our operations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operation and financial condition.We may be unable to obtain, maintain or renew permits necessary for the development or operation of our facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.We must obtain, for all our operations, a number of permits that impose strict conditions, requirements and obligations relating to various environmental and health and safety matters in connection with our current and future operations. To obtain, maintain and renew certain permits, we may be required to conduct environmental studies and collect and present data to governmental authorities pertaining to the potential impact of our current and future operations upon the environment, including the potential impact on endangered species, and to take steps to avoid or mitigate those impacts. The permitting rules, and interpretation thereof, are complex and have tended to become more stringent over time. In some cases, the public (including environmental interest groups) has rights to comment upon and submit objections to permit applications and environmental analysis prepared in connection therewith, and otherwise participate in the permitting process, including challenging the issuance of permits, validity of environmental analyses and determinations and performance of permitted activities. Accordingly, permits required for our operations may not be issued, maintained or renewed in a timely fashion or at all, may be issued or renewed with conditions that restrict our ability to conduct our operations economically, or may be subsequently revoked. Any such failure to obtain, maintain or renew permits, or other permitting delays or conditions, including in connection with any environmental impact analyses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our inability to acquire, maintain or renew financial assurances related to the reclamation and restoration of mining property could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.We are generally obligated to restore property after it has been mined in accordance with regulatory standards and our approved reclamation plan at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, which is the only Molycorp operating facility where mining takes place. We are required under federal, state and local laws to maintain financial assurances, such as surety bonds, to secure such obligations. The failure to acquire, maintain or renew such assurances, as required by federal, state and local laws, could subject us to fines and penalties as well as the revocation of our operating permits. Such failure could result from a variety of factors, including:•the lack of availability, higher expense or unreasonable terms of such financial assurances;•the ability of current and future financial assurance counterparties to increase required collateral; and•the exercise by third-party financial assurance counterparties of any rights to refuse to renew the financial assurance instruments.Our inability to acquire or failure to maintain or renew such financial assurances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.If the assumptions underlying our reclamation plan and mine closure obligations are inaccurate, we could be required to expend materially greater amounts than anticipated to reclaim mined property, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.Federal, state and local laws and regulations establish reclamation and closure standards applicable to our surface mining and other operations as well. Estimates of our total reclamation and mine closure liabilities are based upon our closure and reclamation plans, third-party expert reports, current applicable laws and regulations, certain permit terms and our engineering expertise related to these requirements. Any change in the underlying assumptions or other variation between the estimated liabilities and actual costs could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common StockThe price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Accordingly, stockholders could lose all or part of their investment.The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile and may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:•the extremely volatile rare earths industry;35•our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;•loss of a large customer;•changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;•the failure to comply with accounting standards applicable to us or to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting;•general economic conditions;•the failure of securities analysts to cover our stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts;•future sales of our common stock; and•other factors described in this "Risk Factors" section.Our common stock price has been particularly affected by the volatility in the rare earths industry, as the high and the low sales price of our common stock in the period since we went public in July 2010 through January 2014 has ranged from a low of $4.51 to a high of $79.16. If conditions in our industry remain volatile, our common stock price may continue to exhibit volatility as well. In particular, if prices or demand for rare earths were to decline, our stock price would likely decline.Reports published by securities or industry analysts, including projections in those reports that exceed our actual results, could adversely affect our stock price and trading volume.Research analysts publish their own quarterly projections regarding our operating results. These projections may vary widely from one another and may not accurately predict the results we actually achieve. Our stock price may decline if we fail to meet securities research analysts' projections. Similarly, if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, our stock price or trading volume could decline.Future sales, or availability for sale, of shares of common stock by stockholders could depress the market price of our common stock.Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that large sales could occur, the exchange into shares of our common stock of the exchangeable shares issued by MCP Exchangeco Inc., a Canadian subsidiary of ours, or the conversion into shares of our common stock of shares of our mandatory convertible preferred stock, our 3.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016, our 6.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2017, or our 5.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2018 which we refer to together as our "convertible notes," or the perception that any such exchange or conversion could occur, could depress the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2013, we had 240,380,094 shares of our common stock outstanding. All of these shares are freely tradable, except for any shares held by our "affiliates" as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Additionally, as of December 31, 2013, up to 4,140,000 and 61,800,252 shares of our common stock, subject, in each case, to anti-dilution, make-whole and other adjustments, will be issuable upon conversion of shares of the mandatory convertible preferred stock and the conversion of our convertible notes, respectively, and up to 148,391 shares of our common stock will be issuable upon exchange of the exchangeable shares (which are exchangeable for shares of our common stock on a one-for-one basis). The common stock issuable upon conversion of the mandatory preferred stock or our convertible notes will be freely tradeable.Certain holders of shares of common stock are entitled to rights with respect to the registration under the Securities Act of such shares of common stock. These registration rights are contained in a registration rights agreement entered into with the former members of Molycorp, LLC in connection with our Corporate Reorganization. Additionally, we are obligated to file a registration statement registering the sale from time to time of the 12,500,000 shares of common stock issued to Molymet, in connection with a securities purchase agreement, dated January 31, 2012, by and between Molycorp and Molymet.In addition, the 2,055,435 shares reserved for future issuance under our Molycorp, Inc. 2010 Equity and Performance Incentive Plan, as of December 31, 2013, will become eligible for sale in the public market in the future, subject to certain legal and contractual limitations. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the price of our common stock could decline substantially.The availability of shares of our common stock for sale in the future could reduce the market price of our common stock.In the future, we may issue additional securities to raise capital. We may also acquire interests in other companies by using a combination of cash and our common stock or just our common stock. We may also issue securities convertible into our common stock in addition to our mandatory convertible preferred stock and the convertible notes. Any of these events may 36dilute your ownership interest in our company and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. In addition, sales of a substantial amount of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could reduce the market price of our common stock. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our securities.We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, in the foreseeable future.For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings, after considering any dividends on our preferred stock, to finance the development of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent upon then-existing conditions, including our operating results and financial condition, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, business prospects and other factors that our board of directors considers relevant. Accordingly, holders of our common stock must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their shares of common stock.Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards in the United States may be subject to limitation due to significant changes in the ownership of our common stock.As of December 31, 2013, we had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $290.7 million. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, if a corporation undergoes an "ownership change," the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be limited. An ownership change is defined generally for these purposes as a greater than 50% change in ownership over a three-year period, taking into account shareholders that own 5% or more by value of our common stock. It is possible that past and future transactions involving our common stock will cause an ownership change to occur that would limit our ability to use any net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes.Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt.Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provisions may have the effect of delaying, deferring or discouraging a prospective acquiror from making a tender offer for our shares or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. To the extent that these provisions discourage takeover attempts, they could deprive stockholders of opportunities to realize takeover premiums for their shares. Moreover, these provisions could discourage accumulations of large blocks of common stock, thus depriving stockholders of any advantages which large accumulations of stock might provide.As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. Section 203 prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations unless the business combination was approved in advance by our board of directors, results in the stockholder holding more than 85% of our outstanding common stock or is approved by the holders of at least 66 2/3 % of our outstanding common stock not held by the stockholder engaging in the transaction.Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock.Our board of directors can issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with voting and conversion rights and convertible debt that could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of common stock.Our board of directors can issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with voting and conversion rights and convertible debt that could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of common stock and reduce the likelihood that such holders will receive dividend payments or payments upon liquidation, including shares of our mandatory convertible preferred stock and our convertible notes. Such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of the common stock. The issuance of preferred stock and/or convertible debt or even the ability to issue preferred stock and/or convertible debt could also have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control or other corporate action.Our convertible notes may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.The market price of our common stock is likely to be influenced by our convertible notes. For example, the market price of our common stock could become more volatile and could be depressed by:•investors' anticipation of the potential resale in the market of a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock received upon conversion of our convertible notes as well as our mandatory convertible preferred stock, which converted into 4,140,000 shares of common stock as of March 1, 2014;37•possible sales of our common stock by investors who view our convertible notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in us than owning shares of our common stock; and•hedging or arbitrage trading activity that may develop involving our convertible notes and our common stock.Our board of directors and management have broad discretion over the use of our cash reserves and might not apply this cash in ways that increase the value of your investment.Our board of directors and management have broad discretion to use our cash reserves, and you will be relying on their judgment regarding the application of this cash. Our board of directors and management might not apply the cash in ways that increase the value of your investment. Until we use the cash, we plan to invest it, and these investments may not yield a favorable rate of return. If we do not invest or apply the cash in ways that enhance stockholder value, we may fail to achieve expected financial results, which could cause our stock price to decline.We identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which, if not satisfactorily remediated, could result in material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements.As previously disclosed, in light of a material weakness, that resulted in a restatement of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2013, we re-evaluated our conclusion regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012. During our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, we identified certain deficiencies that were not considered to be a material weakness, either individually or in the aggregate as of December 31, 2012. Given the subsequent identification of a material weakness for the quarter ended March 31, 2013, we considered certain internal control deficiencies identified as of December 31, 2012 to be a material weakness when considered in the aggregate. Some of those internal control deficiencies were still under remediation as of December 31, 2013. Therefore, the previously identified material weakness could result in material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements in future periods if not remediated. Specifically, as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, we did not maintain a sufficient complement of resources with an appropriate level of accounting knowledge, experience and training commensurate with our financial reporting requirements. This limited our ability, in certain areas, to ensure the necessary consistent communication, reinforcement, and application of accounting policies to make appropriate accounting adjustments and disclosure decisions and resulted in ineffective review of certain reconciliations and journal entries and errors in recording transactions in the financial records.A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. A deficiency in internal control over financial reporting exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent or detect misstatements on a timely basis.In response to our conclusion that we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we have commenced remediation actions, which included hiring additional accounting and financial reporting personnel, including an Operations Controller at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, and devoting significant resources to improving our system of processes and internal controls. Specifically, we hired additional personnel in our accounting department, increased the number of review layers for all key accounting reconciliations and analytical procedures and are in the process of re-training the accounting staff at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility on the performance of controls for the preparation, execution and review of the calculation of inventory and costs of sales, and controls that are intended to ensure that all accounting reconciliations and journal entries are appropriately prepared and reviewed and increased involvement and oversight from our corporate office. We are also seeking to hire additional personnel. If our actions are not effective in correcting the material weakness and we continue to experience material weaknesses, investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, particularly if such weaknesses result in a restatement of our financial results, and our stock price could decline.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.None.38