Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition and results of operations can be impacted by a number of risk factors, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock or other securities. We may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategy on a timely basis or at all. Additionally, new stores may place a greater burden on our existing resources and adversely affect our existing business. Our continued growth depends, in large part, on our ability to open new stores and to operate those stores successfully. Successful implementation of this strategy depends upon, among other things: • the identification of suitable sites for store locations; • the negotiation of acceptable lease terms; • the ability to continue to attract customers to our stores largely through favorable word-of-mouth publicity, rather than through conventional advertising; • the hiring, training and retention of skilled store personnel; • the identification and relocation of experienced store management personnel; • the effective management of inventory to meet the needs of our stores on a timely basis; • the availability of sufficient levels of cash flow or necessary financing to support our expansion; and • the ability to successfully address competitive merchandising, distribution and other challenges encountered in connection with expansion into new geographic areas and markets. We, or our third party vendors, may not be able to adapt our distribution, management information and other operating systems to adequately supply products to new stores at competitive prices so that we can operate the stores in a successful and profitable manner. We do not participate in many of the traditional marketing activities of conventional food retailers, but instead rely primarily on favorable word-of-mouth publicity to drive sales. We cannot assure you that we will continue to grow through new store openings or through favorable word-of-mouth publicity in the future. Although we believe, based upon our experience and research conducted by a third-party research firm, that the U.S. market can support at least 500 The Fresh Market stores operating under our current format, we anticipate that it will take years to grow our store count to that number. We cannot assure you that we will grow our store count to at least 500 stores. Additionally, our proposed expansion will place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources. These increased demands could cause us to operate our existing business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in the financial performance of our existing stores. Further, new store openings in markets where we have existing stores may result in reduced sales volumes at our existing stores in those markets. If we experience a decline in performance, we may slow or discontinue store openings, or we may decide to close stores that we are unable to operate in a profitable manner. In the past ten years, we have closed two stores before the expiration of their primary lease terms. If we fail to successfully implement our growth strategy, including by opening new stores, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Our new store base, or stores opened or acquired in the future, may not achieve sales and operating levels consistent with our mature store base on a timely basis or at all or may negatively impact our results. We have actively pursued new store growth in existing and new markets and plan to continue doing so in the future. Our growth continues to depend, in part, on our ability to open and operate new stores successfully. New stores may not achieve sustained sales and operating levels consistent with our mature store base on a timely basis or at all. This may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. In addition, if we acquire stores in the future, we may not be able to successfully integrate those stores into our existing store base and those stores may not be as profitable as our existing stores. We cannot assure you that our new store openings will be successful or result in greater sales and profitability for the company. New stores build their sales volume and their customer base over time and, as a result, generally have lower gross margin rates and higher operating expenses, as a percentage of sales, than our more mature stores. There may be a negative impact on our results from a lower contribution of new stores, along with the impact of related pre-opening and applicable store management relocation costs. Any failure to successfully open and operate new stores in the time frames and at the costs estimated by us could result in a decline of the price of our common stock. Our inability to maintain or improve levels of comparable store sales could cause our stock price to decline. We may not be able to maintain or improve the levels of comparable store sales that we have experienced in the recent past. In addition, our overall comparable store sales have fluctuated in the past and will likely fluctuate in the future. A variety of factors affect comparable store sales, including consumer preferences, competition, economic conditions, pricing, in-store merchandising-related activities and our ability to source and distribute products efficiently. In addition, many specialty retailers have been unable to sustain high levels of comparable store sales growth during and after periods of substantial expansion. These factors may cause our comparable store sales results to be materially lower than in recent periods, which could harm our business and result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Our inability to maintain or increase our operating margins could adversely affect the price of our stock. We intend to continue to increase our operating margins through scale efficiencies, improved systems, continued cost discipline and enhancements to our merchandise offerings. If we are unable to successfully manage the potential difficulties associated with store growth, we may not be able to capture the scale efficiencies that we expect from expansion. If we are not able to continue to capture scale efficiencies, improve our systems, continue our cost discipline and enhance our merchandise offerings, we may not be able to achieve our goals with respect to operating margins. In addition, if we do not adequately refine and improve our various ordering, tracking and allocation systems, we may not be able to increase sales and reduce inventory shrinkage. As a result, our operating margins may stagnate or decline, which could adversely affect the price of our stock. Economic conditions that impact consumer spending could materially affect our business. Ongoing economic uncertainty continues to negatively affect consumer confidence and discretionary spending. Our results of operations may be materially affected by changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer confidence and spending, including discretionary spending. This risk may be exacerbated if customers choose lower-cost alternatives in response to economic conditions. Future economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment levels, business conditions, changes in housing market conditions, the availability of credit, interest rates, tax rates, fuel and energy costs and other matters could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending to lower-priced competitors. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents We face competition in our industry, and our failure to compete successfully may have an adverse effect on our profitability and operating results. Food retail is a competitive industry. Our competition varies and includes national, regional and local conventional supermarkets, national superstores, alternative food retailers, natural foods stores, smaller specialty stores, and farmers’ markets. Each of these stores competes with us on the basis of product selection, product quality, customer service, price or a combination of these factors. In addition, some competitors are aggressively expanding their number of stores or their product offerings. In their new or remodeled stores, our competitors often increase the space allocated to perishable food and specialty food categories, which are our core categories. Some of these competitors may have been in business longer or may have greater financial or marketing resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to sourcing, promoting and selling their products. As competition in certain areas intensifies or competitors open stores within close proximity to one of our stores, our results of operations may be negatively impacted through a loss of sales, reduction in margin from competitive price changes or greater operating costs. Further, any attempt by a competitor to copy or mimic our smaller-box format or operating model could materially impact our business, results of operations and financial condition by causing a decrease in our market share and our sales and operating results. Increased competition may also make employee retention more difficult and raise our cost of hiring and retaining qualified employees. We may be unable to protect or maintain our intellectual property, including The Fresh Market trademark, which could result in customer confusion and adversely affect our business. We believe that our intellectual property has substantial value and has contributed significantly to the success of our business. In particular, our trademarks, including our registered The Fresh Market, Experience the Food and TFM trademarks, are valuable assets that reinforce our customers’ favorable perception of our stores. From time to time, third parties have used names similar to ours, have applied to register trademarks similar to ours and, we believe, have infringed or misappropriated our intellectual property rights. Third parties have also, from time to time, opposed our trademarks and challenged our intellectual property rights. We respond to these actions on a case-by-case basis. The outcomes of these actions have included both negotiated out-of-court settlements as well as litigation. As part of our ongoing efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, on February 2, 2010, we filed a Notice of Opposition with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, Trademark Trial and Appeal Board (the “TTAB”) in response to an application filed by Associated Food Stores, Inc. (“Associated”), which operates supermarkets under the name “A Fresh Market” in Utah, to register the trademark “A Fresh Market”. Associated subsequently filed an answer and counterclaim on March 15, 2010, in which it, among other things, sought to cancel our registrations for the trademarks The Fresh Market and The Fresh Market Name and Design, alleging that we cannot prevent other entities from registering confusingly similar marks to ours, because our marks are generic names for the goods and services for which they are registered. On March 18, 2011, the TTAB granted a Motion on Consent to Withdraw and Dismiss, which dismissed all proceedings before the TTAB. In the Motion the parties consented and stipulated to (1) Associated’s withdrawal with prejudice of its application to register the trademark “A Fresh Market” and (2) Associated’s withdrawal without prejudice of its counterclaim to cancel our registrations based on its allegations that the registered The Fresh Market and The Fresh Market Name and Design trademarks are generic names for the goods and services described in our registrations. Despite the conclusion of these proceedings with Associated, there may be future disputes with Associated or others regarding our trademark rights. In the ordinary course of our business, we evaluate the branding of our stores and products and how they are perceived by our customers. As part of this evaluation, we regularly develop new marks and explore using existing marks in new ways. Whether or not our The Fresh Market trademark rights are challenged in the future, we may decide (1) to continue to use The Fresh Market name and related design, (2) to use our other existing trademarks on a wider or different basis or (3) to develop new trademarks, 14 Table of Contents which could also incorporate The Fresh Market name. If we undertake such an effort, we cannot assure you that it would be successful in strengthening our brand or improving our brand recognition or image to our customers, and any such initiative runs the risk of harming our brand recognition or image and, in turn, our business. We believe, however, that the strength of our business is driven by the distinct and superior food shopping experience we offer our customers, and we therefore believe that we will be able to expand our business and pursue our growth strategy even if The Fresh Market trademark and related design mark are impaired. Our success depends upon our ability to source and market new products to meet our high standards and customer preferences and our ability to offer our customers an aesthetically pleasing shopping environment. Our success depends on our ability to source and market new products that both meet our standards for quality and appeal to customers’ preferences. A small number of our employees, including our in-house merchants, are primarily responsible for both sourcing products that meet our high specifications and identifying and responding to changing customer preferences. Failure to source and market such products, or to accurately forecast changing customer preferences, could lead to a decrease in the number of customer transactions at our stores and a decrease in the amount customers spend when they visit our stores. In addition, the sourcing of our products is dependent, in part, on our relationships with our vendors. If we are unable to maintain these relationships we may not be able to continue to source products at competitive prices that both meet our standards and appeal to our customers. We also attempt to create a pleasant and appealing shopping experience. If we are not successful in creating a pleasant and appealing shopping experience we may lose customers to our competitors. If we do not succeed in maintaining good relationships with our vendors, introducing and sourcing new products that consumers want to buy or are unable to provide a pleasant and appealing shopping environment or maintain our level of customer service, our sales, operating margins and market share may decrease, resulting in reduced profitability. Our stores rely heavily on sales of perishable products, and ordering errors or product supply disruptions may have an adverse effect on our profitability and operating results. We have a significant focus on perishable products. Sales of perishable products accounted for approximately two-thirds of our total sales in 2010. We rely on various suppliers and vendors to provide and deliver our perishable product inventory on a continuous basis. We could suffer significant product inventory losses in the event of the loss of a major supplier or vendor, disruption of our distribution network, extended power outages, natural disasters or other catastrophic occurrences. We have implemented certain systems to ensure our ordering is in line with demand. We cannot assure you, however, that our ordering system will always work efficiently, in particular in connection with the opening of new stores, which have no, or a limited, ordering history. If we were to over-order, we could suffer inventory losses, which would negatively impact our operating results. Furthermore, we could suffer significant product inventory losses in the event of the loss of a major supplier or vendor, disruption of our distribution network, extended power outages, natural disasters or other catastrophic occurrences. Increased commodity prices and availability may impact profitability. Many of our products include ingredients such as wheat, corn, oils, cocoa and other commodities. Commodity prices worldwide have been increasing. While commodity price inputs do not typically represent the substantial majority of our product costs, any increase in commodity prices may cause our vendors to seek price increases from us. Although we typically are able to mitigate vendor efforts to increase our costs, we may be unable to continue to do so, either in whole or in part. In the event we are unable to continue mitigating our vendor efforts to obtain price increases, we may in turn consider raising our prices, and our customers may be deterred by any such price increases. Our profitability may be impacted through increased costs to us which may impact gross margins, or through reduced revenue as a result of a decline in the number and average size of customer transactions. 15 Table of Contents The current geographic concentration of our stores creates an exposure to local economies, regional downturns or severe weather or catastrophic occurrences that may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We currently operate 24 stores in Florida, making Florida our largest market and representing 24% of our total stores. We also have store concentration in North Carolina and Georgia, operating 15 stores and 11 stores in those states, respectively. As a result, our business is currently more susceptible to regional conditions than the operations of more geographically diversified competitors, and we are vulnerable to economic downturns in those regions. Any unforeseen events or circumstances that negatively affect these areas could materially adversely affect our revenues and profitability. These factors include, among other things, changes in demographics and population. Severe weather conditions and other catastrophic occurrences in areas in which we have stores or from which we obtain products may materially adversely affect our results of operations. Such conditions may result in physical damage to our stores, loss of inventory, closure of one or more of our stores, inadequate work force in our markets, temporary disruption in the supply of products, delays in the delivery of goods to our stores and a reduction in the availability of products in our stores. Any of these factors may disrupt our businesses and materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be harmed by a failure of our information technology, administrative or outsourcing systems. We rely on our information technology, administrative and outsourcing systems to effectively manage our business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment and other business processes. The failure of our information technology, administrative or outsourcing systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business to suffer. In addition, our information technology and administrative and outsourcing systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, systems failures, viruses and security breaches, including breaches of our transaction processing or other systems that could result in the compromise of confidential customer data. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, cause us to face significant fines, customer notice obligations or costly litigation, harm our reputation with our customers, require us to expend significant time and expense developing, maintaining or upgrading our information technology, administrative or outsourcing systems or prevent us from paying our suppliers or employees, receiving payments from our customers or performing other information technology, administrative or outsourcing services on a timely basis. Data security breaches suffered by well-known companies and institutions have attracted a substantial amount of media attention, prompting new federal and state laws and legislative proposals addressing data privacy and security, as well as increased data protection obligations imposed on merchants by credit card issuers. As a result, we may become subject to more extensive requirements to protect the customer information that we process in connection with the purchase of our products. Energy costs are a significant component of our operating expenses and increasing energy costs, unless offset by more efficient usage or other operational responses, may impact our profitability. We utilize gas, water, sewer and electricity in our stores and our third-party logistics providers use gas and diesel in the trucks that deliver products to our stores. Increases in energy costs, whether driven by increased demand, decreased or disrupted supply or an anticipation of any such events will increase the costs of operating our stores and may increase the costs of our products. We may not be able to recover these rising costs through increased prices charged to our customers, and any increased prices may exacerbate the risk of customers choosing lower-cost alternatives. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in attempts to protect against these increases in energy costs through long-term energy contracts, improved energy procurement, improved efficiency and other operational improvements, the overall costs of operating our stores will increase which would impact our profitability. 16 Table of Contents We are substantially dependent on a few key third-party vendors to provide logistical services for our stores, including services related to inventory replenishment and the storage and transportation of many of our products. A disruption in these relationships or a key distribution center, or a failure to renew or replace existing contractual relationships, may have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We currently rely upon independent third-party service providers for all product shipments to our stores. In particular, we rely on one third-party service provider to provide key services related to inventory management, warehousing and transportation, and, as a result, much of our inventory is stored at a single warehouse maintained by this provider. See “Business—Sourcing and Distribution”. Products sourced and distributed through this provider accounted for approximately 56% of the merchandise we purchased during 2010, and, therefore, our relationship with this provider is important to us. Our current five-year contract with this provider expires during 2012, unless we and the provider agree to renew the agreement on mutually agreeable terms. Although we have not experienced difficulty in our inventory management, warehousing and transportation to date with this third-party service provider, interruptions could occur in the future. Further, although we expect that this third-party vendor, and our other key vendors, will have sufficient capacity to accommodate our anticipated growth, it or they may not have the resources or desire to do so. Any significant disruptions in our relationship with this provider or the single distribution center this provider uses to service our stores, or our relationships with our other key vendors, including due to their inability to accommodate our growth, or any failure to renew or replace our existing contractual relationship with our largest logistics provider, would make it difficult for us to continue to operate our existing business or pursue our growth plans until we execute replacement agreements or develop and implement self-distribution processes. While we believe that other third-party service providers could provide similar services on reasonable terms, they are limited in number and we cannot assure you that we would be able to find a replacement distributor on a timely basis or that such distributor would be able to fulfill our demands on commercially reasonable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may experience negative effects to our reputation from real or perceived quality or health issues with our food products, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. We believe customers count on us to provide them with fresh, high-quality food products. Concerns regarding the safety of our food products or the safety and quality of our food supply chain could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of food, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control. Adverse publicity about these concerns, whether or not ultimately based on fact, and whether or not involving products sold at our stores, could discourage consumers from buying our products and have an adverse effect on our operating results. Furthermore, the sale of food products entails an inherent risk of product liability claims, product recall and the resulting negative publicity. Food products containing contaminants could be inadvertently distributed by us and, if processing at the consumer level does not eliminate them, these contaminants could result in illness or death. We cannot assure you that product liability claims will not be asserted against us or that we will not be obligated to perform product recalls in the future. Any such claims, recalls or adverse publicity with respect to our private-label products may have an even greater negative effect on our sales and operating results , in addition to generating adverse publicity for our private label brand. Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. Any such adverse effect could be exacerbated by our position in the market as a purveyor of fresh, high-quality food products and could significantly reduce our brand value. Issues regarding the safety of any food items sold by us, regardless of the cause, could have a substantial and adverse effect on our sales and operating results. The loss of key employees could negatively affect our business. A key component of our success is the experience of our key employees, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Craig Carlock, our Senior Vice President—Real Estate and Development, Randy Kelley, our Senior Vice President—Store Operations, Sean Crane, and our Senior Vice President—Merchandising and Marketing, Marc Jones. These employees have extensive experience in our industry and are familiar with our business, systems and processes. The loss of services of one or more of our key employees could impair our ability to manage our business effectively. We do not maintain key person insurance on any employee. 17 Table of Contents In addition to these key employees, we have other employees in positions, including those employees responsible for our merchandising and operations departments, that, if vacant, could cause a temporary disruption in our business until such positions are filled. Union attempts to organize our employees could negatively affect our business. None of our employees are currently subject to a collective bargaining agreement. As we continue to grow, and enter different regions, unions may attempt to organize all or part of our employee base at certain stores or within certain regions. Responding to such organization attempts may distract management and employees and may have a negative financial impact on individual stores, or on our business as a whole. Our management has limited experience managing a public company and our current resources may not be sufficient to fulfill our public company obligations. As a result of our initial public offering in November, 2010, we are subject to various regulatory requirements, including those of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and The NASDAQ Stock Market. These requirements include record keeping, financial reporting and corporate governance rules and regulations. Our management team has limited experience in managing a public company and, historically, has not had the resources typically found in a public company. Our internal infrastructure may not be adequate to support our increased reporting obligations and we may be unable to hire, train or retain necessary staff and may be reliant on engaging outside consultants or professionals to overcome our lack of experience or employees. Our business could be adversely affected if our internal infrastructure is inadequate, we are unable to engage outside consultants or are otherwise unable to fulfill our public company obligations. The terms of our revolving credit facility may restrict our current and future operations, which could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and to manage our operations. Our revolving credit facility contains, and any additional debt financing we may incur would likely contain, covenants that restrict our operations, including limitations on our ability to grant liens, incur additional debt, pay dividends, redeem our common stock, make certain investments and engage in certain merger, consolidation or asset sale transactions. A failure by us to comply with the covenants or financial ratios contained in our revolving credit facility could result in an event of default, which could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and manage our operations. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be due and payable and exercise other remedies as set forth in the unsecured revolving credit facility. If the indebtedness under our revolving credit facility were to be accelerated, our future financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We will require significant capital to fund our expanding business, which may not be available to us on satisfactory terms or at all. To support our expanding business and pursue our growth strategy, we will utilize significant amounts of cash generated by our operations to pay our lease obligations, build out new store space, purchase inventory, pay personnel, further invest in our infrastructure and facilities, and pay for the increased costs associated with operating as a public company. We primarily depend on cash flow from operations and borrowings under our revolving credit facility to fund our business and growth plans. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund these activities, and sufficient funds are not otherwise available to us under our revolving credit facility, we may need additional equity or debt financing. If such financing is not available to us, or is not available to us on satisfactory terms, our ability to operate and expand our business or to respond to competitive pressures would be limited and we could be required to delay, significantly curtail or eliminate planned store openings or operations or other elements of our growth strategy. 18 Table of Contents We may incur additional indebtedness in the future which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to react to changes to our business. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Any increase in the amount of our indebtedness could require us to divert funds identified for other purposes for debt service and impair our liquidity position. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, we may need to refinance our debt, dispose of assets or issue equity to obtain necessary funds. We do not know whether we will be able to take any of such actions on a timely basis, on terms satisfactory to us or at all. Our level of indebtedness has important consequences to you and your investment in our common stock. For example, our level of indebtedness may: • require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our debt, which would reduce the funds available to us for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to pay future dividends; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, expansion plans and other investments, which may limit our ability to implement our business strategy; • heighten our vulnerability to downturns in our business, the food retail industry or in the general economy and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the food retail industry; or • prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities as they arise or successfully carrying out our plans to expand our store base and product offerings. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to make payments on our indebtedness or to fund our operations. If our stock price declines, you could lose a significant part of your investment. The market price of our stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described herein and the following: • the failure of securities analysts to cover or continue to cover our common stock; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • the inability to meet the financial estimates of analysts who follow our common stock; • the failure to meet, or delay in meeting, our growth targets; • strategic actions by us or our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • variations in our quarterly operating results and those of our competitors; 19 Table of Contents • general economic and stock market conditions; • risks related to our business and our industry, including those discussed above; • changes in conditions or trends in our industry, markets or customers; • terrorist acts; • future sales of our common stock or other securities; • investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with our common stock relative to other investment alternatives; and • guidance, if any, that we provide to the public, any changes in this guidance or our failure to meet this guidance. As a result of these factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above purchase price or may not be able to resell them at all. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, price volatility may be greater if the trading volume of our common stock is low. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, of our common stock may depress the price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline significantly as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market, including shares that might be offered for sale by the Berry family. The sales, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. The Berry family has rights to require us to file registration statements registering additional sales of shares of common stock or to include sales of such shares of common stock in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. Subject to compliance with applicable lock-up restrictions, shares of common stock sold under these registration statements can be freely sold in the public market. In the event such registration rights are exercised and a large number of shares of common stock are sold in the public market, such sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock. These sales also could impede our ability to raise future capital. Additionally, we will bear all expenses in connection with any such registrations (other than stock transfer taxes and underwriting discounts or commissions). In connection with our initial public offering, we, our directors and executive officers and the Berry family have each agreed to lock-up restrictions, meaning that we and they and their permitted transferees will not be permitted to sell any shares of our common stock for 180 days after the date of the final prospectus, subject to exceptions, without the prior consent of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated. J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated may, in their sole discretion and without notice, release all or any portion of the shares of our common stock from the restrictions in any of the lock-up agreements described above. Also, in the future, we may issue shares of our common stock in connection with investments or acquisitions. The amount of shares of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then outstanding shares of our common stock. 20 Table of Contents Failure to establish and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. As a public company, beginning in fiscal 2011, we will be required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, which will require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm that addresses the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet our deadline for compliance with Section 404. Testing and maintaining internal control can divert our management’s attention from other matters that are important to the operation of our business. We also expect the regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified officers and members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and make some activities more difficult, time consuming and costly. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 or our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able or willing to issue an unqualified report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or their effect on our operations because there is presently no precedent available by which to measure compliance adequacy. In connection with the initial public offering we reviewed our accounting policies. As part of this review, and in connection with audits of our financial statements for certain prior periods, our independent registered public accountants identified three material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting related to our accounting for (1) compensated absences of our employees, which we had not been accruing over the service period during which the entitlement was earned, (2) license revenue with respect to sales of sushi, and (3) the reversal of certain non-cash compensation expenses in 2007 which, based on the timing of formal documentation, should have been recorded in 2008. We corrected these accounting treatments and restated our prior year financial statements and reflected these changes in our Registration Statement on Form S-1 initially filed May 3, 2010 in connection with our initial public offering. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an unqualified report as required by Section 404 or we are required to restate our financial statements, we may fail to meet our public reporting obligations and investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of The NASDAQ Stock Market rules, and, as a result, will rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to stockholders of other companies. As of January 30, 2011, the Berry family owns more than 50% of the total voting power of our common shares for the election of directors and we are a “controlled company” under The NASDAQ Stock Market corporate governance standards. As a controlled company, certain exemptions under The NASDAQ Stock Market standards free us from the obligation to comply with certain corporate governance requirements of The NASDAQ Stock Market, including the requirements: • that a majority of our board of directors consists of “independent directors”, as defined under the rules of The NASDAQ Stock Market; • that our director nominees be selected, or recommended for our board of directors’ selection, either (1) by a majority of independent directors in a vote by independent directors, pursuant to a nominations process adopted by a board resolution, or (2) by a nominating and governance committee comprised solely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the nominations process; and • that the compensation of our executive officers be determined, or recommended to the board for determination, by a majority of independent directors in a vote by independent directors, or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors. 21 Table of Contents Accordingly, for so long as we are a “controlled company”, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of The NASDAQ Stock Market corporate governance requirements. Prior to our initial public offering, we were treated as an S-corporation under Subchapter S of the Internal Revenue Code, and claims of taxing authorities related to our prior status as an S-corporation could harm us. Prior to November 9, 2010, we were treated as an S-corporation. If the unaudited, open tax years in which we were an S-corporation are audited by the Internal Revenue Service, and we are determined not to have qualified for, or to have violated, our S-corporation status, we will be obligated to pay back taxes, interest and penalties, and we do not have the right to reclaim tax distributions we have made to our stockholders during those periods. These amounts could include taxes on all of our taxable income while we were an S-corporation. Any such claims could result in additional costs to us and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have entered into tax indemnification agreements with certain members of the Berry family and could become obligated to make payments to them for any additional federal, state or local income taxes assessed against them for fiscal periods prior to the initial public offering. Prior to November 9, 2010, we were treated as an S-corporation. In the event of an adjustment to our reported taxable income for a period or periods prior to termination of our S-corporation status, our stockholders at that time could be liable for additional income taxes for those prior periods. Therefore, we have entered into tax indemnification agreements with our stockholders prior to the offering. Pursuant to the tax indemnification agreements, we agreed that upon filing any tax return (amended or otherwise), or in the event of any restatement of our taxable income, in each case for any period during which we were an S-corporation, we will make a payment to each stockholder on a pro rata basis in an amount sufficient so that the stockholder with the highest incremental estimated tax liability (calculated as if the stockholder would be taxable on its allocable share of our taxable income at the highest applicable federal, state and local tax rates and taking into account all amounts we previously distributed in respect of taxes for the relevant period) receives a payment equal to its incremental tax liability. We also agreed to indemnify the stockholders for any interest, penalties, losses, costs or expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees) arising out of any claim under the agreements. The Berry family continues to have substantial control over us and maintains the ability to control the election of directors and other matters submitted to stockholders for approval, which will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and may result in actions that you do not believe to be in our interests or your interests. As of January 30, 2011, the Berry family beneficially owns, in the aggregate, approximately 67% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, the Berry family will be able to exert a significant degree of influence or actual control over our management and affairs and over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and any other significant transaction. This concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters, and the interests of the Berry family may not coincide with our interests or your interests. As a result, we may take actions that you do not believe to be in our interests or your interests and that could depress our stock price. 22 Table of Contents If securities or industry analysts do not publish or continue to publish research reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrades our stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 