Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, the occurrence of any of which may materially and adversely affect us. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we may currently deem immaterial also may impair our financial condition or operations or otherwise harm us. Risks Related to Our Business and Properties Developing properties will expose us to risks beyond those associated with owning and operating student housing properties, and could materially and adversely affect us. Our future growth will depend, in part, upon our ability to complete successfully the six properties targeted to be completed for the 2011-2012 academic year and to identify, plan and execute on additional development opportunities. Our development activities may be adversely affected by: • abandonment of development opportunities after expending significant cash and other resources to determine feasibility, requiring us to expense costs incurred in connection with the abandoned project; • construction costs of a project exceeding our original estimates; • failure to complete development projects on schedule or in conformity with building plans and specifications; 9 Table of Contents • lower than anticipated occupancy and rental rates at a newly completed property, which rates may not be sufficient to make the property profitable; • failure to obtain or delays in obtaining construction financing, which could result in delays in closing on acquisitions of undeveloped land; and • failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. The construction activities at our student housing properties expose us to liabilities and risks beyond those associated with the ownership and operation of student housing properties, which could materially and adversely affect us. The construction of our student housing properties, including the six properties targeted to be completed for the 2011-2012 academic year, involves risks associated with construction activities, including liability for workplace safety, such as injuries and accidents to persons and property occurring during the construction process. Construction activities also subject us to obligations relating to environmental compliance, such as management of storm water discharge and run-off, material handling, on-site storage of construction materials and off-site disposal of construction materials. These risks are in addition to those associated with owning or operating student housing properties. Our development activities are subject to delays and cost overruns, which could materially and adversely affect us. Our development activities, including those related to the six properties targeted to be completed for the 2011-2012 academic year or future academic years, may be adversely affected by circumstances beyond our control, including: work stoppages; labor disputes; shortages of qualified trades people, such as carpenters, roofers, electricians and plumbers; changes in laws or other governmental regulations, such as those relating to union organizing activity; lack of adequate utility infrastructure and services; our reliance on local subcontractors, who may not be adequately capitalized or insured; inclement weather; and shortages, delay in availability, or fluctuations in prices of building materials. Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays in the start or completion of, or could increase the cost of, developing one or more of our properties. If we are unable to recover these increased costs by raising our lease rates, our financial performance and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. We may not realize a return on our development activities in a timely manner, which could materially and adversely affect us. Due to the amount of time required for planning, constructing and leasing of development properties, we may not realize a significant cash return for several years. Therefore, if any of our development activities are subject to delays or cost overruns, our growth may be hindered and our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. In addition, new development activities, regardless of whether or not they are ultimately successful, typically require substantial time and attention from management. Furthermore, maintaining our development capabilities involves significant expense, including compensation expense for our development personnel and related overhead. To the extent we cease or limit our development activity, this expense will not be offset by revenues from our development activity. Therefore, if we do not realize a return on our development activities in a timely manner in order to offset these costs and expenses, we could be materially and adversely affected. Adverse economic conditions and dislocation in the credit markets have had a material and adverse effect on us and may continue to materially and adversely affect us. We have recently experienced unprecedented levels of volatility in the capital markets, a reduction in the availability of credit and intense recessionary pressures, which have had an adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to borrow funds. For example, lenders are generally imposing more stringent lending standards and applying more conservative valuations to properties. This has limited the amount of indebtedness 10 Table of Contents we have been able to obtain and impeded our ability to develop new properties and to replace construction financing with permanent financing. If these conditions continue, our business and our growth strategy, including our ability to develop the six properties targeted to be completed for the 2011-2012 academic year, may be materially and adversely affected. Although our business strategy contemplates access to debt financing (including our revolving credit facility and construction debt) to fund future development and working capital requirements, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms or at all. As of December 31, 2010, we have borrowed approximately $42.5 million under our revolving credit facility and have issued letters of credit in an aggregate amount of $3.8 million under such facility. The amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility will reduce the amount that we may be able to borrow under this facility for other purposes. We have up to $53.8 million in borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility, and amounts borrowed under the facility will be due at its maturity in October 2013. This indebtedness, as well as our mortgage and construction loans of approximately $60.8 million as of December 31, 2010, will subject us to risks associated with debt financing as described below under “— Our indebtedness exposes us to a risk of default and reduces our free cash flow, which could materially and adversely affect us.” The challenging economic environment may continue to adversely affect us by, among other things, limiting or eliminating our access to financing, which would adversely affect our ability to develop and refinance properties and pursue acquisition opportunities. Significantly more stringent lending standards and higher interest rates may reduce our returns on investment and increase our interest expense, which could adversely affect our financial performance and liquidity. Additionally, the limited amount of financing currently available may reduce the value of our properties, limit our ability to borrow against such properties and, should we choose to sell a property, impair our ability to dispose of such property at an attractive price or at all, which could materially and adversely affect us. Certain of our properties may be subject to liens or other claims, which could materially and adversely affect us. We may be subject to liens or claims for materials or labor relating to disputes with subcontractors or other parties that are or were involved in the development and construction process. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to pay amounts greater than currently recorded liabilities in order to settle these claims. Developing or acquiring properties in new markets may materially and adversely affect us. We may develop or acquire properties in markets within the United States in which we do not currently operate, including the six markets in which we are developing properties with completion targeted for the 2011-2012 academic year. To the extent we choose to develop or acquire properties in new markets, we will not possess the same level of familiarity with development or operation in these markets, as we do in our current markets, which could adversely affect our ability to develop such properties successfully or at all or to achieve expected performance, which could materially and adversely affect us. We rely on our relationships with the colleges and universities from which our properties draw student-tenants and on the policies and reputations of these schools; any deterioration in our relationships with such schools or changes in the schools’ admissions or residency policies or reputations could materially and adversely affect us. We rely on our relationships with colleges and universities for referrals of prospective student-tenants or for mailing lists of prospective student-tenants and their parents. The failure to maintain good relationships with these schools could therefore have a material adverse effect on us. Many of these schools own and operate on-campus student housing which compete with our properties for student-tenants, and if schools refuse to provide us with referrals or to make lists of prospective student-tenants and their parents available to us or increase the cost of these lists, the lack of such referrals, lists or increased cost could have a material adverse effect on us. 11 Table of Contents Changes in admission and housing policies could adversely affect us. For example, if a school reduces the number of student admissions or requires that a certain class of students (e.g., freshman) live in on-campus housing, the demand for beds at our properties may be reduced and our occupancy rates may decline. While we may engage in marketing efforts to compensate for any such policy changes, we may not be able to effect such marketing efforts prior to the commencement of the annual lease-up period, or our additional marketing efforts may not be successful, which could reduce the demand for our properties and materially and adversely affect us. It is also important that the schools from which our properties draw student-tenants maintain good reputations and are able to attract the desired number of incoming students. Any degradation in a school’s reputation could inhibit its ability to attract students and reduce the demand for our properties. Our results of operations are subject to risks inherent in the student housing industry, such as an annual leasing cycle and limited leasing period, which could materially and adversely affect us. We generally lease our properties for 11.5-month terms, and the related leases provide for 12 equal monthly payments of rent. Therefore, our properties must be entirely re-leased each year, exposing us to more leasing risk than property lessors that lease their properties for longer terms. Student housing properties are also typically leased during a limited leasing period that generally begins in January and ends in August of each year. We are therefore highly dependent on the effectiveness of our marketing and leasing efforts and personnel during this leasing period. We will be subject to heightened leasing risk at properties under development and at properties we may acquire in the future due to our lack of experience leasing such properties. Any significant difficulty in leasing our properties would adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions on our common stock and would likely have a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock. Additionally, student-tenants may be more likely to default on their lease obligations during the summer months, which could further reduce our revenues during this period. Although we typically require a student-tenant’s lease obligations to be guaranteed by a parent, we may have to spend considerable effort and expense in pursuing payment upon a defaulted lease, and our efforts may not be successful. Competition from other student housing properties, including on-campus housing and traditional multi-family housing located in close proximity to the colleges and universities from which we draw student-tenants may reduce the demand for our properties, which could materially and adversely affect us. Our properties compete with properties owned by universities, colleges, national and regional student housing businesses and local real estate concerns. On-campus student housing has inherent advantages over off-campus student housing (such as the majority of our properties), due to its physical location on the campus and integration into the academic community, which may cause student-tenants to prefer on-campus housing to off-campus housing. Additionally, colleges and universities may have financial advantages that allow them to provide student housing on terms more attractive than our terms. For example, colleges and universities can generally avoid real estate taxes and borrow funds at lower interest rates than private, for-profit real estate concerns, such as our company. There are a number of student housing properties located near or in the same general vicinity of many of our properties that compete directly with our properties. Such competing student housing properties may be newer, located closer to campus, charge less rent, possess more attractive amenities, offer more services or offer shorter lease terms or more flexible lease terms than our properties. Competing properties could reduce demand for our properties and materially and adversely affect us. Revenue at a particular property could also be adversely affected by a number of other factors, including the construction of new on-campus and off-campus housing, decreases in the general levels of rents for housing at competing properties, decreases in the number of students enrolled at one or more of the colleges or universities from which the property draws student-tenants and other general economic conditions. 12 Table of Contents Although we believe no participant in the student housing industry holds a dominant market share, we compete with larger national companies, colleges and universities with greater resources and superior access to capital. Furthermore, a number of other large national companies with substantial financial and marketing resources may enter the student housing business. The activities of any of these companies, colleges or universities could cause an increase in competition for student-tenants and for the acquisition, development and management of other student housing properties, which could reduce the demand for our properties. Our success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed, and their departure could materially and adversely affect us. We are dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, particularly those of Ted W. Rollins, our co-chairman and chief executive officer, and Michael S. Hartnett, our co-chairman and chief investment officer. These individuals have extensive experience in our business, including sourcing attractive investment opportunities, development activities, financing activities, university relations and leasing. Messrs. Rollins and Hartnett have directed the operations of our predecessor entities and each has over 25 years of experience in providing service-enriched housing and approximately seven years of student housing experience. The loss of the services of either Mr. Rollins or Mr. Hartnett could materially and adversely affect us. The current economic environment could reduce enrollments and limit the demand for our properties, which could materially and adversely affect us. A continuation of ongoing economic conditions that adversely affect household disposable income, such as high unemployment levels, weak business conditions, reduced access to credit, increasing tax rates and high fuel and energy costs, could reduce overall student leasing or cause student-tenants to shift their leasing practices as students may determine to forego college or live at home and commute to college. In addition, as a result of general economic weakness, many students may be unable to obtain student loans on favorable terms. If student loans are not available or their costs are prohibitively high, enrollment numbers for schools from which we draw student-tenants may decrease, resulting in a decrease in the demand for, and consequently the occupancy rates at and rental revenue from, our properties. Accordingly, the continuation or deterioration of current economic conditions could materially and adversely affect us. In each of the past five fiscal years, we have experienced significant net losses; if this trend continues, we could be materially and adversely affected. We have incurred significant net losses in each of the past five fiscal years. These results have had a negative impact on our financial condition. Although we believe that we are adequately capitalized and able to resume our historical levels of development activity, there can be no assurance that our business will become profitable in the future and additional losses will not be incurred. If this trend continues in the future, our financial performance, liquidity and our ability to operate our business as a going concern could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to acquire properties on favorable terms, our future growth could be materially and adversely affected. Our future growth will depend, in part, upon our ability to acquire new properties on favorable terms. Acquisition opportunities may not be available to us on terms that we deem acceptable, and we may be unsuccessful in consummating acquisition opportunities. Our ability to acquire properties on favorable terms and successfully operate them may be adversely affected by: • an inability to obtain financing on attractive terms or at all; • competition from other real estate investors; • increased purchase prices and decreased expected yields due to competition from other potential acquirers; 13 Table of Contents • the need to make significant and unexpected capital expenditures to improve or renovate acquired properties; • an inability to quickly and efficiently integrate acquisitions, particularly any acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations; • market conditions may result in higher than expected vacancy rates and lower than expected rental rates at acquired properties; and • acquisition of properties subject to liabilities but without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, to the sellers, or with liabilities that are unknown to us, such as liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by tenants, vendors or other persons dealing with the former owners of our properties. Our failure to identify and consummate property acquisitions on attractive terms or the failure of any acquired properties to meet our expectations could materially and adversely affect our future growth. Our strategy of investing in properties located in medium-sized college and university markets may not be successful, which could materially and adversely affect us. Our business strategy involves investing in properties located in medium-sized college and university markets, which are smaller than larger educational markets. Larger educational markets, such as Boston, Massachusetts or Washington, D.C., often have multiple colleges and universities that have larger enrollments than schools located in medium-sized college and university markets and attract students nationally and internationally. The colleges and universities that our properties draw student-tenants from typically have smaller enrollments than schools in larger educational markets and tend to attract students from within the region in which the school is located. If the schools in our markets experience reduced enrollment, for example due to adverse economic conditions, or are unable to attract sufficient students to achieve a desired class size, the pool of prospective student-tenants for our properties will be reduced. This could have the result of reducing our occupancy and lowering the revenue from our properties, which could materially and adversely affect our financial performance and liquidity. Our indebtedness exposes us to a risk of default and reduces our free cash flow, which could materially and adversely affect us. As of December 31, 2010, our total consolidated indebtedness was approximately $103.3 million. Our debt service obligations expose us to the risk of default and reduce cash available to invest in our business or pay distributions that are necessary to qualify and remain qualified as a REIT. Although we intend to limit the sum of the outstanding principal amount of our consolidated indebtedness to not more than 50% of our total market capitalization, our board of directors may modify or eliminate this limitation at any time without the approval of our stockholders. Furthermore, our charter does not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. In the future we may incur substantial indebtedness in connection with the development or acquisition of additional properties and for other working capital needs, or to fund the payment of distributions to our stockholders. In addition, a tax protection agreement to which we are a party requires us to maintain a minimum level of indebtedness of $56.0 million throughout a 10-year tax protection period in order to allow a sufficient amount of debt to be allocable to MXT Capital, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“MXT Capital”), which is wholly owned and controlled by Ted W. Rollins, our co-chairman and chief executive officer, and Michael S. Hartnett, our co-chairman and chief investment officer, and certain members of their families, to avoid certain adverse tax consequences. If we fail to maintain such minimum indebtedness throughout the 10-year tax protection period, we will be required to make indemnifying payments to MXT Capital, in an amount equal to the federal, state and local taxes, if any, imposed on its members as a result of any income or gain recognized by them by reason of such failure. The amount of such taxes will be computed based on the highest applicable federal, state and local marginal tax rates, as well as any “grossed up” taxes imposed on 14 Table of Contents such payments. This requirement may restrict our ability to reduce leverage when we otherwise might wish to do so and generally reduce our flexibility in managing our capital structure. Our indebtedness and the limitations imposed on us by our indebtedness could have significant adverse consequences, including the following: • we may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms; • we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of the indebtedness being refinanced; • we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms; • we may default on our payment or other obligations as a result of insufficient cash flow or otherwise, which may result in a cross-default on our other obligations, and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our properties that secure their loans and receive an assignment of rents and leases; • to the extent that we incur unhedged floating rate debt, we will have exposure to interest rate risk; and • foreclosures could create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, a circumstance which could hinder our ability to meet the distribution requirements necessary to enable us to qualify and remain qualified for taxation as a REIT. Compliance with the provisions of our debt agreements, including the financial and other covenants, such as the maintenance of specified financial ratios, could limit our flexibility, and a default under these agreements could result in a requirement that we repay indebtedness, which could severely affect our liquidity and increase our financing costs, which could materially and adversely affect us. Our revolving credit facility restricts our ability to engage in some business activities. Our revolving credit facility contains customary negative covenants and other financial and operating covenants that, among other things: • restrict our ability to incur certain additional indebtedness; • restrict our ability to make certain investments; • restrict our ability to effect certain mergers; • restrict our ability to make distributions to stockholders; and • require us to maintain certain financial coverage ratios. These limitations restrict our ability to engage in some business activities, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and the per share trading price of our common stock. In addition, failure to comply with any of these covenants, including the financial coverage ratios, could cause an event of default under and/or accelerate some or all of our indebtedness, which would have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, our revolving credit facility contains certain cross-default provisions with respect to specified other indebtedness, giving the lenders the right to declare a default if we are in default under other loans in some circumstances. Joint venture investments could be materially and adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on our co-venturers’ financial condition and disputes between our co-venturers and us. Our properties located in Lawrence, Kansas, Moscow, Idaho, San Angelo and Huntsville, Texas, Conway, Arkansas and Statesboro, Georgia, comprising approximately 22.5% of our beds, are held in a joint venture with HSRE, in which we own a 49.9% interest. Additionally, we entered into a new joint venture with HSRE, in which we own a 20% interest and through which we are developing two properties with completion targeted for the 2011-2012 academic year. We anticipate that we may enter into other joint ventures with other parties in the future. We may not have a controlling interest in a joint venture and may share responsibility with our 15 Table of Contents co-venturer for managing the property held by the joint venture. Under such circumstances, we may not have sole decision-making authority regarding the joint venture’s property. Investments in joint ventures, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present when we invest in a property without the involvement of a third party. For example, our co-venturer may have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our preferences, policies or objectives. Additionally, it is possible that our co-venturer might become bankrupt, fail to fund its share of required capital contributions or block or delay decisions that we believe are necessary. Such investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as sales, because neither we nor our co-venturers may have full control over the joint venture. Disputes between us and our co-venturer may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and divert the attention of our officers and directors from other aspects of our business. Consequently, actions by or disputes with our co-venturers might result in subjecting properties owned by the joint venture vehicle to additional risk. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party co-venturers. Any of foregoing factors could materially and adversely affect our joint-venture investments. Our management team has not previously operated either a REIT or a public company, and this inexperience could materially and adversely affect us. Our management team has not operated a business that has sought to qualify for taxation as a REIT or in compliance with the numerous technical restrictions and limitations set forth in the Internal Revenue Code applicable to REITs. Furthermore, until our initial public offering in October 2010, our management team had not previously operated a public company. The regulatory requirements applicable to public companies involve a significant investment of management time, since these requirements were not previously applicable to us as a closely-held private company. Both federal laws and regulations and the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) rules impose numerous requirements relating to a public company’s corporate governance and disclosure obligations. We may be required to spend additional time addressing governance and disclosure obligations due to our inexperience, and we will be subject to fines and other penalties if we fail to comply in a timely manner with these obligations. We may not be able to operate a REIT or a public company as successfully or as efficiently as a more experienced management team. Our investment in properties subject to ground leases with unaffiliated third parties exposes us to the potential loss of such properties upon the expiration or termination of the ground leases, and the realization of such loss could materially and adversely affect us. Our properties at the University of South Alabama are also subject to a right of first refusal that may inhibit our ability to sell them. Our properties located on the campus of the University of South Alabama are subject to ground leases with affiliates of the university. Our joint venture property located in Moscow, Idaho is subject to a ground lease with an unaffiliated third party. In addition, we may invest in additional properties that are subject to ground leases with unaffiliated third parties. As the lessee under a ground lease with an unaffiliated third party, we are exposed to the possibility of losing our leasehold interest in the land on which our buildings are located. A ground lease may not be renewed upon the expiration of its current term or terminated by the lessor pursuant to the terms of the lease if we do not meet our obligations thereunder. In the event of an uncured default under any of our existing ground leases, the lessor may terminate our leasehold interest in the land on which our buildings are located. Any termination of our existing ground leases with unaffiliated third parties, unless in conjunction with the exercise of a purchase option, would also result in termination of our management agreement relating to the property. If we lose the leasehold interest in any of our properties, we could be materially and adversely affected. Our properties located at the University of South Alabama are also subject to a right of first refusal pursuant to which the ground lessor entity related to the university has a right to purchase our leasehold interest in the relevant property in the event we decide to accept an offer to sell either property to a third party. This may inhibit our ability to sell these properties. Further, our right to transfer one of the on-campus properties is subject to the consent of the ground lessor, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld. 16 Table of Contents We may incur losses on interest rate swap and hedging arrangements, which could materially and adversely affect us. We currently use, and may in the future enter into additional, agreements to reduce the risks associated with increases in interest rates. Although these agreements may partially protect against rising interest rates, they also may reduce the benefits to us if interest rates decline. If an arrangement is not indexed to the same rate as the indebtedness that is hedged, we may be exposed to losses to the extent the rate governing the indebtedness and the rate governing the hedging arrangement change independently of each other. Finally, nonperformance by the other party to the arrangement may subject us to increased credit risks. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect us. Our inability to pass-through increases in taxes or other real estate costs to our student-tenants could materially and adversely affect our financial performance and liquidity. Each of our properties is subject to real and personal property taxes. These taxes may increase as tax rates change and as the properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. We generally are not able to pass through to our student-tenants under existing leases any increases in taxes, including real estate and income taxes, or other real estate related costs, such as insurance or maintenance. Consequently, unless we are able to off-set any such increases with sufficient revenues, we may be materially and adversely affected by any such increases. The prior performance of our predecessor entities may not be indicative of our future performance. All of our properties have been acquired or developed by our predecessor entities within the past six years and have limited operating histories. Consequently, the historical operating results of our properties and the financial data we have disclosed may not be indicative of our future performance. The operating performance of the properties may decline and we could be materially and adversely affected. As a result of operating as a public company, we will incur significant increased costs and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance requirements, which could materially and adversely affect us. Prior to our initial public offering, we had never operated as a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses, as well as expend significant management time, relating to various requirements applicable to public companies that were not applicable to our predecessor as a closely held private company. The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) and the NYSE rules impose numerous requirements relating to a public company’s corporate governance and disclosure obligations. Compliance with these requirements will require us to hire additional employees, adopt new policies, procedures and controls, and cause us to incur significant costs. For example, we are required to have specified board committees, adopt internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, and file annual, quarterly and other reports and information with the SEC. If our prior history of incurring significant net losses continues, we will be unable to expend the funds necessary to hire additional employees and otherwise comply with our increased disclosure and reporting obligations. Our lack of prior experience in the operation of a public company may reduce the likelihood that we will be able to identify compliance and disclosure issues on a timely basis and our failure to address these issues could materially and adversely affect us due to fines and penalties associated with compliance failure, an inability to utilize certain SEC forms and offering methods to access the public equity and debt markets quickly and the inability to otherwise enjoy the benefits associated with our status as a public company. If we identify any issues in complying with requirements applicable to public companies, we would likely incur additional costs remediating those issues and such costs could be significant, and the existence of those issues could materially and adversely affect us, our reputation or investor perception of us. Failure to remediate compliance issues, whether due to cost or otherwise, may result in negative action against us, including fines, civil and criminal penalties or delisting from the NYSE. Identification of these types of compliance issues could also make it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we could be required to accept reduced policy limits and insurance coverage or incur substantially higher costs to 17 Table of Contents obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it could become more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. Any of the foregoing costs or factors could materially and adversely affect us. We will be subject to the requirements of Section 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which will be costly and challenging. Our management will be required to deliver a report that assesses the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as of December 31, 2011. Internal controls are intended to allow management or employees in the normal course of performing their functions to prevent or detect misstatements on a timely basis. A deficiency in internal controls exists when their design or operation does not permit such prevention or detection on a timely basis. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires our independent registered public accounting firm to deliver an attestation report on the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in conjunction with their opinion on our audited financial statements as of the same date. Substantial work on our part is required to implement appropriate processes, document the system of internal control over key processes, assess their design, remediate any deficiencies identified and test their operation. This process is expected to be both costly and challenging. Our predecessor had not previously prepared consolidated financial statements. Additionally, the financial statements of some of the entities that are included in our predecessor’s financial statements were not individually audited. Consequently, it was necessary to consolidate numerous financial statements, some of which were unaudited, in anticipation of the audit of our predecessor’s financial statements. In the course of such audit, it became necessary to prepare and record a number of adjustments to correct the initial combined financial statements. It was determined that these adjustments arose from weaknesses within our internal control over financial reporting, specifically our lack of policies, procedures and review controls with respect to consolidation and the financial reporting process and our lack of processes and procedures with respect to the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) to certain transactions. As a closely held private company, our predecessor had not been required to operate in compliance with the foregoing requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As a public company, we are required to design, implement and effectively execute and monitor additional controls in order to comply with these requirements and remediate any identified deficiencies. We have implemented measures to address weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and intend to bring our operations into compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act by December 31, 2011, and comply with the other mandates of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, but there can be no assurance that such compliance will be achieved or maintained. If we are unable to implement and monitor effective controls, we may be unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act within the required time period. We cannot give any assurances that we will successfully remediate any material weaknesses identified in connection with our compliance with the provisions of Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The existence of any material weakness would preclude a conclusion by management and our registered independent public accounting firm that we maintained effective internal control over financial reporting. Our management may be required to devote significant time and incur significant expense to remediate any material weaknesses that may be discovered and may not be able to remediate any material weaknesses in a timely manner. The existence of a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could also result in errors in our financial statements that could require us to restate our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause stockholders to lose confidence in our reported financial information, any of which could materially and adversely affect us. Reporting of on-campus crime statistics required of colleges and universities may negatively impact our properties. Federal and state laws require colleges and universities to publish and distribute reports of on-campus crime statistics, which may result in negative publicity and media coverage associated with crimes occurring 18 Table of Contents in the vicinity of, or on the premises of, our on-campus properties. Reports of crime or other negative publicity regarding the safety of the students residing on, or near, our properties may have an adverse effect on both our on-campus and off-campus properties. We may be subject to liabilities from litigation, which could materially and adversely affect us. We have been involved in legal proceedings in connection with our business, and may become involved in additional legal proceedings, including consumer, employment, tort or commercial litigation that, if decided adversely to or settled by us and not adequately covered by insurance, could result in liabilities that could materially and adversely affect us. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry Our performance and the value of our properties are subject to risks associated with real estate and with the real estate industry, which could materially and adversely affect us. Our ability to make distributions to our stockholders depends on our ability to generate cash revenues in excess of our expenses, including expenses associated with our development activities, indebtedness and capital expenditure requirements. The occurrence of certain events and conditions that are generally applicable to owners and operators of real estate, many of which are beyond our control, could materially and adversely affect us. These events and conditions include: • adverse national, regional and local economic conditions; • rising interest rates; • oversupply of student housing in our markets, increased competition for student-tenants or reduction in demand for student housing; • inability to collect rent from student-tenants; • vacancies at our properties or an inability to lease our properties on favorable terms; • inability to finance property development and acquisitions on favorable terms; • increased operating costs, including insurance premiums, utilities and real estate taxes; • the need for capital expenditures at our properties; • costs of complying with changes in governmental regulations; • the relative illiquidity of real estate investments; and • civil unrest, acts of God, including earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses, and acts of war or terrorism. In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession, such as the one the global economy is currently experiencing, rising interest rates or declining demand for real estate, or the public perception that any of these events may occur, could result in a general decline in occupancy rates and rental revenue or an increased incidence of defaults under our existing leases, which could impair the value of our properties or reduce our cash flow. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to sell our properties or otherwise respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties, which could materially and adversely affect us. From time to time, we may determine that it is in our best interest to sell one or more of our properties. However, because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, we may encounter difficulty in finding a buyer in a timely manner should we desire to sell one of our properties, especially if market conditions are poor at such time. Selling real estate has been difficult recently, since the availability of credit has become more limited, as lending standards have become more stringent. As a result, potential buyers have experienced 19 Table of Contents difficulty in obtaining financing necessary to purchase a property. In addition, our properties are specifically designed for use as student housing, which could limit their marketability or affect their values for alternative uses. Consequently, should we desire to sell one or more of our properties, our ability to do so promptly or on terms that we deem to be acceptable may be limited, which could materially and adversely affect us. We also may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct any such defects or to make any such improvements. In connection with any future property acquisitions, we may agree to provisions that materially restrict our ability to sell the property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be secured by or repaid with respect to such property. In addition, in order to qualify for taxation as a REIT and to maintain such qualification, the Internal Revenue Code limits our ability to sell properties held for less than two years, which may cause us to incur losses thereby reducing our cash flows. See “Federal Income Tax Risk Factors — The tax imposed on REITs engaging in “prohibited transactions” may limit our ability to engage in transactions which would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes.” These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of any of our properties or a need for liquidity could materially and adversely affect us. We could incur significant costs related to government regulation and private litigation over environmental matters, which could materially and adversely affect us. Under various environmental laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for contamination resulting from the release or threatened release of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum at that property. Additionally, an entity that arranges for the disposal or treatment of a hazardous or toxic substance or petroleum at another property may be held jointly and severally liable for the cost of investigating and cleaning up such property or other affected property. Such parties are known as potentially responsible parties (“PRPs”). These environmental laws often impose liability regardless of whether the PRP knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the contaminants, and the costs of any required investigation or cleanup of these substances can be substantial. PRPs may also be liable to parties who have claims for contribution in connection with any such contamination, such as other PRPs or state and federal governmental agencies. The liability is generally not limited under such laws and therefore could easily exceed the property’s value and the assets of the liable party. The presence of contamination, hazardous materials or environmental issues, or the failure to remediate such conditions, at a property may expose us to third-party liability for personal injury or property damage, remediation costs or adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or develop the property or to borrow using the property as collateral, which could materially and adversely affect us. Environmental laws also impose ongoing compliance requirements on owners and operators of real estate. Environmental laws potentially affecting us address a wide variety of matters, including, but not limited to, asbestos-containing building materials (“ACBMs”), storage tanks, storm water and wastewater discharges, lead-based paint, radon, wetlands and hazardous wastes. Failure to comply with these laws could result in fines and penalties or expose us to third-party liability, which could materially and adversely affect us. Some of our properties may have conditions that are subject to these requirements and we could be liable for such fines or penalties or liable to third parties. The conditions at some of our properties may expose us to liability and remediation costs related to environmental matters, which could materially and adversely affect us. Certain of our properties may contain, or may have contained, ACBMs. Environmental laws require that ACBMs be properly managed and maintained, and may impose fines and penalties on building owners and operators for failure to comply with these requirements. Also, some of our properties may contain, or may have contained, or are adjacent to or near other properties that may contain or may have contained storage tanks for the storage of petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. Any of these conditions 20 Table of Contents create the potential for the release of these contaminants. Third parties may be permitted by law to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury or property damage arising from such tanks. Additionally, third parties may be permitted by law to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to these or other contaminants that may be present on, at or under the properties. Furthermore, some of our properties include regulated wetlands on undeveloped portions of such properties and mitigated wetlands on or near our properties, the existence of which can delay or impede development or require costs to be incurred to mitigate the impact of any disturbance. Absent appropriate permits, we can be held responsible for restoring wetlands and be required to pay fines and penalties, which could materially and adversely affect us. Over the past several years there have been an increasing number of lawsuits against owners and operators of properties alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in real estate. Mold growth can occur when excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing as some molds have been shown to produce airborne toxins and irritants and exposure to these and other types of molds may lead to adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. Some of our properties may contain microbial matter such as mold and mildew. The presence of significant mold at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected property and could expose us to liability from student-tenants, employees and others if property damage or health concerns arise, which could materially and adversely affect us. If any of our properties are not properly connected to a water or sewer system, or if the integrity of such systems are breached, microbial matter or other contamination can develop. If this were to occur, we could incur significant remedial costs and we could also be subject to private damage claims and awards, which could be material. If we become subject to claims in this regard, it could materially and adversely affect us and our insurability for such matters in the future. Independent environmental consultants have conducted Phase I environmental site assessments on all of our properties. These Phase I environmental site assessments are intended to evaluate information regarding the environmental condition of the surveyed property and surrounding properties based generally on visual observations, interviews and the review of publicly available information. These assessments do not typically take into account all environmental issues including, but not limited to, testing of soil or groundwater, a comprehensive asbestos survey or an invasive inspection for the presence of lead-based paint, radon or mold contamination. As a result, these assessments may have failed to reveal all environmental conditions, liabilities, or other compliance issues affecting our properties. Material environmental conditions, liabilities, or compliance issues may have arisen after the assessments were conducted or may arise in the future. In addition, future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material additional environmental liabilities. We cannot assure you that the cost of future environmental compliance or remedial measures will not affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders or that such costs or other remedial measures will not be material to us. In the event we decided to sell one of our properties, the presence of hazardous substances on such property may limit our ability to sell it on favorable terms or at all, and we may incur substantial remediation costs. The discovery of material environmental liabilities at one or more of our properties could subject us to unanticipated significant costs, which could materially and adversely affect us. We may incur significant costs complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Fair Housing Act and similar laws, which could materially and adversely affect us. Under the ADA, all public accommodations must meet various federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with the ADA’s requirements may require modifications to our properties, such as the removal of access barriers or restrict our ability to renovate or develop our properties in the 21 Table of Contents manner we desire. In addition, in June 2008, the Department of Justice proposed a substantial number of changes to the accessibility guidelines under the ADA. In January of 2009, President Obama suspended final publication and implementation of these regulations, pending comprehensive review by his administration. If implemented as proposed, the new guidelines could cause some of our properties to incur costly measures to become fully compliant. Additional federal, state and local laws may also require us to make similar modifications or impose similar restrictions on us. For example, the Fair Housing Act (the “FHA”) requires apartment properties first occupied after March 13, 1990 to be accessible to the handicapped. We have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance with present requirements of the ADA, FHA or any similar laws. Noncompliance with any of these laws could result in us incurring significant costs to make substantial modifications to our properties or in the imposition of fines or an award or damages to private litigants. We cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with the ADA, FHA or other legislation. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA, FHA or any other legislation, we could be materially and adversely affected. We may incur significant costs complying with other regulatory requirements, which could materially and adversely affect us. Our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. If we fail to comply with these various requirements, we might incur governmental fines or private damage awards. Furthermore, existing requirements could change and require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures, which could materially and adversely affect us. Uninsured losses or losses in excess of insured limits could materially and adversely affect us. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage, terrorism and rental loss insurance covering all of the properties in our portfolio. Our insurance includes coverage for earthquake damage to properties located in seismically active areas, windstorm damage to properties exposed to hurricanes, and terrorism insurance on all of our properties. Our insurance policies are subject to coverage limits and applicable deductibles, and if we suffer a substantial loss, our coverage may be insufficient. All insurance policies are also subject to coverage extensions that we believe are typical for our business. We do not carry insurance for generally uninsured losses such as loss from riots or acts of God. In the event we experience a loss which is uninsured or which exceeds our policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged property as well as the anticipated future cash flows from such property. In addition, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might also keep us from using insurance proceeds to replace or renovate a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might be inadequate to restore our economic position with respect to the damaged or destroyed property. Furthermore, in the event of a substantial loss at one or more of our properties that is covered by one or more policies, the remaining insurance under these policies, if any, could be insufficient to adequately insure our other properties. In such event, securing additional insurance policies, if possible, could be significantly more expensive than our current policies. Any loss of these types may materially and adversely affect us. Future terrorist attacks in the U.S. or an increase in incidents of violence on college campuses could reduce the demand for, and the value of, our properties, which could materially and adversely affect us. Future terrorist attacks in the U.S., such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and acts of war, or threats of the same, could reduce the demand for, and the value of, our properties. Any such event in any of the markets in which our properties are located would make it difficult for us to maintain the affected property’s occupancy or to re-lease the property at rates equal to or above historical rates, which could materially and adversely affect us. 22 Table of Contents Incidents of violence on college campuses could pose similar problems, with respect to the potential for a reduction of demand for our properties if such an incident were to occur on a college campus in one of our markets. Such an event in any of our markets could not only adversely affect our occupancy rates, but would also likely lead to increased operating expenses for such properties due to increased security costs, which would likely be necessary to reassure our student-tenants in the wake of such an incident. Any such increase in operating expenses may have a material adverse effect on the results of operations of the affected property. In addition, terrorist attacks or violent incidents could directly impact the value of our properties through damage, destruction or loss and the availability of insurance for such acts may be limited or prohibitively expensive. If we receive casualty proceeds, we may not be able to reinvest such proceeds profitably or at all, and we may be forced to recognize taxable gain on the affected property, which could materially and adversely affect us. Risks Related to Our Company and Structure Provisions of our charter allow our board of directors to authorize the issuance of additional securities, which may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us through a transaction that our stockholders believe to be in their best interest. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 90,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. In addition, our board of directors may, without stockholder approval, amend our charter to increase the aggregate number of our shares or the number of shares of any class or series that we have the authority to issue and to classify or reclassify any unissued common stock or preferred stock and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified stock. As a result, our board of directors may authorize the issuance of additional stock or establish a series of common or preferred stock that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, including through a transaction at a premium over the market price of our common stock, even if our stockholders believe that a change in control through such a transaction is in their best interest. Provisions of Maryland law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, which, in turn, may negatively affect our stockholders’ ability to realize a premium over the market price of our common stock. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (the “MGCL”) may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price of our common stock, including: • The Maryland Business Combination Act that, subject to limitations, prohibits certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our voting capital stock) or an affiliate of any interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes special appraisal rights and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and • The Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act that provides that our “control shares” (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. By resolution of our board of directors, we have opted out of the business combination provisions of the MGCL and provided that any business combination between us and any other person is exempt from the business combination provisions of the MGCL, provided that the business combination is first approved by our board of directors (including a majority of directors who are not affiliates or associates of such persons). 23 Table of Contents Pursuant to a provision in our bylaws, we have opted out of the control share provisions of the MGCL. However, our board of directors may by resolution elect to opt in to the business combination provisions of the MGCL and we may, by amendment to our bylaws, opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future. Additionally, Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement certain takeover defenses, such as a classified board, some of which we do not yet have. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us that otherwise could provide our stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price of our common stock. The ownership limitations in our charter may restrict or prevent you from engaging in certain transfers of our common stock, which may delay or prevent a change in control of us that our stockholders believe to be in their best interest. In order for us to qualify as a REIT for each taxable year after 2010, no more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of our common stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the federal income tax laws to include various kinds of entities) during the last half of any taxable year. Attribution rules in the Internal Revenue Code determine if any individual or entity actually or constructively owns our common stock under this requirement. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own shares of our common stock during at least 335 days of a taxable year for each taxable year after 2010. To assist us in qualifying as a REIT, our charter contains a stock ownership limit which provides that, subject to certain exceptions, no person or entity may beneficially own, or be deemed to own by virtue of the applicable constructive ownership provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, more than 9.8% by vote or value, whichever is more restrictive, of either our outstanding common stock or our outstanding capital stock in the aggregate. Generally, any of our shares of common stock owned by affiliated owners will be added together for purposes of the stock ownership limit. If anyone transfers shares of our stock in a way that would violate the stock ownership limit or prevent us from qualifying as a REIT under the federal income tax laws, those shares instead will be transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary and will be either redeemed by us or sold to a person whose ownership of the shares will not violate the stock ownership limit or we will consider the transfer to be null and void from the outset, and the intended transferee of those shares will be deemed never to have owned the shares. Anyone who acquires shares of our common stock in violation of the stock ownership limit or the other restrictions on transfer in our charter bears the risk of suffering a financial loss when the shares are redeemed or sold if their market price falls between the date of purchase and the date of redemption or sale. The constructive ownership rules under the Internal Revenue Code are complex and may cause stock owned actually or constructively by a group of related individuals or entities to be owned constructively by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than 9.8% of our stock (or the acquisition of an interest in an entity that owns, actually or constructively, our stock) by an individual or entity, could, nevertheless cause that individual or entity, or another individual or entity, to own constructively in excess of 9.8% of our outstanding stock and therefore they would be subject to the stock ownership limit. Our charter, however, provides that our board of directors shall make an exception to this limitation if our board determines that such exception will not jeopardize our tax status as a REIT. In addition, the stock ownership limit and the other restrictions on transfer in our charter may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a third party from acquiring control of us, whether such a transaction involved a premium price for our common stock or otherwise was in the best interest of our stockholders. 24 Table of Contents Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit the recourse available in the event actions are taken that are not in the best interest of our stockholders. Maryland law provides that a director has no liability in connection with the director’s management of the business and affairs of a corporation if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in the best interests of the corporation and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. In addition, our charter exculpates our directors and officers from liability to us and our stockholders for money damages except for liability resulting from actual receipt of an improper benefit in money, property or services or active and deliberate dishonesty established by a final judgment and which is material to the cause of action. Our charter authorizes us to indemnify our directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Our bylaws require us to indemnify each director or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers, which could limit the recourse available in the event actions are taken that are not in our stockholders’ best interest. Our charter contains provisions that make removal of our directors difficult, which could make it difficult for our stockholders to effect changes to our management that our stockholders believe to be in their best interest. Our charter provides that a director may be removed only for cause (as defined in our charter) and then only by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors. Our charter also provides that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of the remaining directors in office, even if less than a quorum. These requirements prevent stockholders from removing directors except for cause and with a substantial affirmative vote and from replacing directors with their own nominees. As a result, a change in our management that our stockholders believe is in their best interest may be delayed, deferred or prevented. Our board of directors has approved very broad investment guidelines for us and does not review or approve each investment decision made by our management team. Our management team is authorized to follow broad investment guidelines and, therefore, has great latitude in determining which are the proper investments for us, as well as the individual investment decisions. Our management team may make investments with lower rates of return than those anticipated under current market conditions and/or may make investments with greater risks to achieve those anticipated returns. The ability of our board of directors to change some of our policies without the consent of our stockholders may lead to the adoption of policies that are not in the best interest of our stockholders. Our major policies, including our policies with respect to investments, leverage, financing, growth, debt and capitalization, are determined by our board of directors or those committees or officers to whom our board of directors may delegate such authority. Our board of directors also establishes the amount of any dividends or distributions that we may pay to our stockholders. Our board of directors or the committees or officers to which such decisions may be delegated have the ability to amend or revise these and our other policies at any time without stockholder vote. Accordingly, our stockholders may not have control over changes in our policies, and we may adopt policies that may not prove to be in the best interests of our stockholders. Members of our management and board of directors are holders of OP units, and their interests may differ from those of our stockholders. Members of our management and board of directors are direct or indirect holders of OP units. As holders of OP units, they may have conflicting interests with our stockholders. For example, they may have different 25 Table of Contents tax positions from our stockholders, which could influence their decisions regarding whether and when to dispose of assets, whether and when to incur new indebtedness or refinance existing indebtedness and how to structure future transactions. As a result, our management and board of directors may implement policies or make decisions that are not in the best interest of our stockholders. Members of our management are beneficiaries of a tax protection agreement that may require us to maintain indebtedness that we otherwise would not. MXT Capital entered into a tax protection agreement with us. Pursuant to the tax protection agreement, we agreed to maintain a minimum level of indebtedness of $56.0 million throughout the ten-year tax protection period in order to allow a sufficient amount of debt to be allocable to MXT Capital to avoid certain adverse tax consequences. If we fail to maintain such minimum indebtedness throughout the ten-year tax protection period, we will be required to make indemnifying payments to MXT Capital, in an amount equal to the federal, state and local taxes, if any, imposed on its members as a result of any income or gain recognized by them by reason of such failure. The amount of such taxes will be computed based on the highest applicable federal, state and local marginal tax rates, as well as any “grossed up” taxes imposed on such payments. This requirement may restrict our ability to reduce leverage when we otherwise might wish to do so and generally reduce our flexibility in managing our capital structure. The tax protection agreement does not require us to make indemnifying payments to MXT Capital by reason of any built-in gain allocated to its members upon the disposition of any of our properties. We have entered into employment agreements with certain of our executive officers that require us to make payments in the event such officer’s employment is terminated by us without cause or by such officer for good reason. This may make it difficult for us to effect changes to our management or limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us that would otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. The employment agreements that we entered into with certain of our executive officers provide benefits under certain circumstances that could make it more difficult for us to terminate these officers. Therefore, even if we sought to replace these officers, it may not be economically viable for us to do so. Furthermore, because an acquiring company would likely seek to replace these officers with their own personnel, these employment agreements could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of us that would otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our primary assets are our general partner interest in our operating partnership and OP units and, as a result, we depend on distributions from our operating partnership to pay dividends and expenses. We are a holding company and have no material assets other than our general partner interest and OP units. We intend to cause our operating partnership to make distributions to its limited partners, including us, in an amount sufficient to allow us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and to pay all our expenses. To the extent we need funds and our operating partnership is restricted from making distributions under applicable law, agreement or otherwise, or if our operating partnership is otherwise unable to provide such funds, the failure to make such distributions could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We operate through a partnership structure, which could materially and adversely affect us. Our primary property-owning vehicle is our operating partnership, of which we are the sole general partner. Our acquisition of properties through our operating partnership in exchange for OP units may permit certain tax deferral advantages to the sellers of those properties. If properties contributed to our operating partnership have unrealized gain attributable to the difference between the fair market value and adjusted tax basis in such properties prior to contribution, then the sale of such properties could cause material and adverse tax consequences to the limited partners who contributed such properties. Although we, as the sole general partner of our operating partnership, generally have no obligation to consider the tax consequences of our actions to any limited partner, in connection with our formation transactions, we agreed to indemnify MXT 26 Table of Contents Capital for certain tax consequences related to our properties. There can be no assurance that our operating partnership will not acquire properties in the future subject to material restrictions designed to minimize the adverse tax consequences to the limited partners who contribute such properties. Such restrictions could result in significantly reduced flexibility to manage our properties, which could materially and adversely affect us. We have fiduciary duties as sole general partner of our operating partnership which may result in conflicts of interest in representing your interests as our stockholders. Conflicts of interest could arise in the future as a result of the relationship between us, on the one hand, and our operating partnership or any partner thereof, on the other. We, as the sole general partner of our operating partnership, have fiduciary duties to the other limited partners in our operating partnership under Delaware law. At the same time, our directors and officers have duties to us and our stockholders under applicable Maryland law in connection with their management of us. Our duties as the sole general partner of our operating partnership may come in conflict with the duties of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders. For example, those persons holding OP units will have the right to vote on certain amendments to the partnership agreement (which require approval by a majority in interest of the limited partners, including us) and individually to approve certain amendments that would adversely affect their rights. These voting rights may be exercised in a manner that conflicts with the interests of our stockholders. We are unable to modify the rights of limited partners to receive distributions as set forth in the partnership agreement in a manner that adversely affects their rights without their consent, even though such modification might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our partnership agreement provides that if there is a conflict between the interests of our stockholders, on one hand, and the interests of the limited partners, on the other, we will endeavor in good faith to resolve the conflict in a manner not adverse to either our stockholders or the limited partners; provided, however, that for so long as we own a controlling interest in our operating partnership, we have agreed to resolve any conflict that cannot be resolved in a manner not adverse to either our stockholders or the limited partners in favor of our stockholders. Changes in accounting rules, assumptions and/or judgments could materially and adversely affect us. Accounting rules and interpretations for certain aspects of our operations are highly complex and involve significant assumptions and judgment. These complexities could lead to a delay in the preparation and public dissemination of our financial statements. Furthermore, changes in accounting rules and interpretations or in our accounting assumptions and/or judgments, such as asset impairments, could significantly impact our financial statements. Under any of these circumstances, we could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to maintain our initial, or any subsequent, distribution rate, and we may be required to fund the minimum distribution necessary to qualify for taxation as a REIT from sources that could reduce our cash flows. Our ability to fund any distributions will depend, in part, upon continued successful leasing of our existing portfolio, successful development activity and fee income from development, construction and management services. To the extent these sources are insufficient, we may use our working capital or borrowings under our revolving credit facility to fund distributions. If we need to fund future distributions with borrowings under our revolving credit facility or from working capital, or if we reduce our distribution rate, our stock price may be adversely affected. In addition, to the extent that we fund any distributions with borrowings under our revolving credit facility or from working capital, our cash available for investment in our business, including for property development and acquisition purposes, will decrease. In addition, in order to qualify for taxation as a REIT, among other requirements, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains. To the extent that, in respect of any calendar year, cash available for distribution to our stockholders is less than our REIT taxable income, we would be required to fund the minimum distribution necessary to qualify for taxation as a REIT from other sources, which could include asset sales or borrowings. Funding a distribution through asset sales or borrowings could reduce our cash flow from operations, increase our interest expense and decrease our cash available for investment in our business. We may also choose to meet this 27 Table of Contents distribution requirement by distributing a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. Under recent IRS guidance, up to 90% of any such distribution may be made in shares of our common stock. If we choose to make a distribution consisting in part of shares of our common stock, the holders of our common stock may be subject to adverse tax consequences. Any distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits will not be taxable to a holder to the extent that they do not exceed the adjusted basis of the holder’s shares in respect of which the distributions were made, but rather, will reduce the adjusted basis of these shares. To the extent that such distributions exceed the adjusted basis of a stockholder’s shares, they will generally be included in income as capital gains. A public market for our common stock may never develop and your ability to sell your shares of our common stock may be limited. Prior to our initial public offering, there had been no public market for our common stock. Our common stock is listed on the NYSE under the symbol “CCG.” However, an active trading market for our common stock may never develop or, even if one does develop, may not be sustained. In the absence of an active trading market, an investor may be unable to liquidate an investment in shares of our common stock at a favorable price or at all. The market price of our common stock may be volatile due to numerous circumstances, some of which are beyond our control. Even if an active trading market develops for our common stock, the market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Our financial performance, government regulatory action, tax laws, interest rates and market conditions in general could have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the market price or result in fluctuations in the market price of our common stock include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in our financial performance or earnings estimates; • increases in market interest rates (which, among other consequences, may lead purchasers of our common stock to require a higher dividend yield to make or maintain an investment); • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we incur in the future; • additions or departures of key personnel; • actions by our stockholders; • speculation in the press or investment community; • general market, economic and political conditions, including the recent economic slowdown and dislocation in the global credit markets; • our issuance of additional shares of common stock or other securities; • availability of outstanding shares of our common stock, including sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market (including shares held by our directors, officers or their affiliates); • the performance of other similar companies; • changes in accounting principles; • passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry; and 28 Table of Contents • the potential impact of the recent economic slowdown on the student housing industry and related budgets of colleges and universities. Future offerings of debt or equity securities ranking senior to our common stock may limit our operating and financial flexibility and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we decide to issue debt or equity securities in the future ranking senior to our common stock or otherwise incur indebtedness, it is possible that these securities or indebtedness will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility and limiting our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges, including with respect to distributions, more favorable than those of our common stock and may result in dilution to owners of our common stock. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering or otherwise incur indebtedness will depend on then current market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings or financings, any of which could adversely affect the market price (as discussed in the risk factor above), and dilute the value of, our common stock. Federal Income Tax Risk Factors Our failure to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT could have a material and adverse effect on us. We intend to operate in a manner that will allow us to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the Internal Revenue Code. We have not requested and do not plan to request a ruling from the IRS, that we qualify as a REIT. If we fail to qualify or lose our qualification as a REIT, we will face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders for each of the years involved because: • we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • we also could be subject to the U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and • unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following a year during which we were disqualified. In addition, if we lose our qualification as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to stockholders, and all distributions to our stockholders will be subject to tax as regular corporate dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. This means that our U.S. individual stockholders would be taxed on our dividends at a maximum U.S. federal income tax rate currently at 15%, and our corporate stockholders generally would be entitled to the dividends received deduction with respect to such dividends, subject, in each case, to applicable limitations under the Internal Revenue Code. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions and regulations promulgated thereunder for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our ability to qualify as a REIT. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable U.S. Treasury Department regulations (“Treasury Regulations”) that have been promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code is greater in the case of a REIT that, like us, holds its assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of requirements on a continuing basis, including requirements regarding the composition of our assets, sources of our gross income and stockholder ownership. Also, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains. As a result of these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could materially and adversely affect us and the market price of our common stock. 29 Table of Contents To qualify and remain qualified as a REIT, we will likely rely on the availability of equity and debt capital to fund our business. To qualify and remain qualified as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income each year, excluding net capital gains, and we will be subject to regular corporate income taxes to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income each year. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. Because of REIT distribution requirements, we may be unable to fund capital expenditures, such as our developments, future acquisitions or property upgrades or renovations from operating cash flow. Therefore, we may be dependent on the public equity and debt capital markets and private lenders to fund our growth and other capital expenditures. However, we may not be able to obtain this capital on favorable terms or at all. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on: • general market conditions; • our current debt levels and the number of properties subject to encumbrances; • our current performance and the market’s perception of our growth potential; • our cash flow and cash dividends; and • the market price of our common stock. If we cannot obtain capital from third-party sources, we may not be able to acquire or develop properties when strategic opportunities exist, satisfy our debt service obligations or make the cash distributions to our stockholders, including those necessary to qualify or maintain our qualification as a REIT, which could materially and adversely affect us. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that have a material and adverse affect on us. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. Any of these taxes would cause our operating costs to increase, and therefore we could be materially and adversely affected. In particular, various services provided at our properties are not permitted to be provided directly by our Operating Partnership, but must be provided through taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRSs”) that are treated as fully taxable corporations. Although we do not anticipate this to be the case, it is possible that the income that is derived by, and subject to corporate income tax in the hands of, such TRSs may be significant. To qualify or remain qualified as a REIT, we may be forced to limit the activities of our taxable REIT subsidiaries, which could materially and adversely affect us. To qualify or remain qualified as a REIT, no more than 25% of the value of our total assets may consist of the securities of one or more TRSs. Certain of our activities, such as our third-party development, construction, management and leasing services, must be conducted through our TRSs for us to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT. In addition, certain non-customary services must be provided by a TRS or an independent contractor. If the revenues from such activities create a risk that the value of our TRSs, based on revenues or otherwise, approaches the 25% threshold, we will be forced to curtail such activities or take other steps to remain under the 25% threshold. Since the 25% threshold is based on value, it is possible that the IRS could successfully contend that the value of our TRSs exceeds the 25% threshold even if our TRSs account for less than 25% of our consolidated revenues, income or cash flow. Our third-party services generally are performed by our TRSs. Consequently, income earned from our third-party services and non-customary services will be subject to regular federal income taxation and state and local income taxation where applicable, thus reducing the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders. 30 Table of Contents A TRS is not permitted to directly or indirectly operate or manage a “hotel, motel or other establishment more than one-half of the dwelling units in which are used on a transient basis.” We have been advised by counsel that the proposed method of operating our TRSs will not be considered to constitute such an activity. Future Treasury Regulations or other guidance interpreting the applicable provisions might adopt a different approach, or the IRS might disagree with the conclusion of our counsel. In such event we might be forced to change our method of operating our TRSs, or one or more of the TRSs could fail to qualify as a TRS, which could cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. Any of the foregoing circumstances could materially and adversely affect us. If our operating partnership failed to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, we would cease to qualify as a REIT and we could be materially and adversely affected. We believe that our operating partnership will qualify to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, our operating partnership will not be subject to federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of its partners, including us, will be required to pay tax on its allocable share of our operating partnership’s income. No assurance can be provided, however, that the IRS, will not challenge its status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating our operating partnership as a corporation for tax purposes, we would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, cease to qualify as a REIT. Also, the failure of the our operating partnership to qualify as a partnership would cause it to become subject to federal state and corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including us. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends, which could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The maximum tax rate applicable to income from “qualified dividends” payable to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates has been reduced by legislation to 15% (through the end of 2012). Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates. Although this does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could materially and adversely affect the market price of the stock of REITs, including shares of our common stock. We may in the future choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case you may be required to pay income taxes in excess of the cash dividends you receive. We may in the future distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash and shares of our common stock at the election of each stockholder. Under Revenue Procedure 2010-12 (which extends guidance previously issued by the IRS in Revenue Procedure 2009-15), up to 90% of any such taxable dividend through 2011 could be payable in our stock. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for federal income tax purposes. As a result, stockholders may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our common stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to certain non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. Further, while Revenue Procedure 2010-12 applies only to taxable dividends payable in cash or stock through 2011, it is unclear whether and to what extent we will be able to pay taxable dividends in cash and stock in later years. Moreover, various aspects of such a taxable cash/stock dividend are uncertain and have 31 Table of Contents not yet been addressed by the IRS. No assurance can be given that the IRS will not impose additional requirements in the future with respect to taxable cash/stock dividends, including on a retroactive basis, or assert that the requirements for such taxable cash/stock dividends have not been met. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect us. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code substantially limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. Any income from a hedging transaction we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets will not constitute “gross income” for purposes of the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test, if certain requirements are not met. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result, we might have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because a domestic TRS would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in our TRSs will generally not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward against future taxable income in the respective TRS. These increased costs could materially and adversely affect us. The tax imposed on REITs engaging in “prohibited transactions” may limit our ability to engage in transactions which would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% penalty tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property held in inventory primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Although we do not intend to hold any properties that would be characterized as inventory held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of our business, subject to certain statutory safe harbors, such characterization is a factual determination and no guarantee can be given that the IRS would agree with our characterization of our properties or that we will always be able to make use of the available safe harbors. Re-characterization of sale-leaseback transactions may cause us to lose our REIT status. We may purchase properties and lease them back to the sellers of such properties. While we will use our best efforts to structure any such sale-leaseback transaction so that the lease will be characterized as a “true lease,” thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for federal income tax purposes, the IRS could challenge such characterization. In the event that any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and re-characterized as a financing transaction or loan for federal income tax purposes, deductions for depreciation and cost recovery relating to such property would be disallowed. If a sale-leaseback transaction were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the REIT qualification “asset tests” or the “income tests” and, consequently, lose our REIT status effective with the year of re-characterization. Alternatively, the amount of our REIT taxable income could be recalculated, which might also cause us to fail to meet the distribution requirement for a taxable year. Liquidation of assets may jeopardize our REIT status. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. If we are compelled to liquidate our investments to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our status as a REIT, or we may be subject to a 100% tax on any resultant gain if we sell assets treated as dealer property or inventory. Foreign investors may be subject to “FIRPTA” tax upon the sale of their shares of our stock. A foreign investor disposing of a U.S. real property interest, including shares of stock of a U.S. corporation whose assets consist principally of U.S. real property interests, is generally subject to tax under the 32 Table of Contents Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act (“FIRPTA”) on the gain recognized on the disposition. Such FIRPTA tax does not apply, however, to the disposition of stock in a REIT if the REIT is “domestically controlled.” A REIT is “domestically controlled” if less than 50.0% of the REIT’s stock, by value, has been owned directly or indirectly by persons who are not qualifying U.S. persons during a continuous five-year period ending on the date of disposition or, if shorter, during the entire period of the REIT’s existence. While we intend to qualify as a “domestically controlled” REIT, we cannot assure you that we will. If we were to fail to qualify, gain realized by foreign investors on a sale of shares of our stock would be subject to FIRPTA tax, unless the shares of our stock were traded on an established securities market and the foreign investor did not at any time during a specified testing period directly or indirectly own more than 5.0% of the value of our outstanding common stock. Foreign investors may be subject to FIRPTA tax upon the payment of a capital gains dividend. Capital gain dividends attributable to U.S. real property interests paid by us to a foreign investor are not subject to tax under FIRPTA and are generally treated the same as an ordinary dividend from us if the capital gain dividends are paid with respect to a class of our shares of stock which is regularly traded on an established securities market located in the United States, if the foreign investor did not own more than 5% of such class of stock at any time during the one-year period ending on the date of the distribution. The shares of our common stock are regularly traded on an established securities market located in the United States, within the meaning of applicable Treasury regulations; however, we can provide no assurance that shares of our common stock will continue to be so regularly traded on an established securities market located in the United States in the future. To the extent the exception described in the immediately preceding paragraph does not apply, distributions to a foreign investor that are attributable to gain from our sale or exchange of U.S. real property interests (whether or not designated as capital gain dividends) will generally cause the foreign investor to be treated as recognizing such gain as income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business. In addition, we will be required to withhold and to remit to the IRS 35% of any distribution to foreign investors that is designated as a capital gain dividend, or, if greater, 35% of the amount treated as gain from the sale or exchange of a U.S. real property interest. The amount withheld is creditable against the foreign investor’s U.S. federal income tax liability and a foreign investor may seek a refund from the IRS of any amounts withheld if it is subsequently determined that such amounts exceed the foreign investor’s overall U.S. federal income tax liability. Any such dividends received by a foreign investor that is a corporation may also be subject to an additional branch profits tax at a 30% rate or such lower rate as may be specified by an applicable income tax treaty. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments or to forgo otherwise attractive investment opportunities, which could materially and adversely affect us. To qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we continually must satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the type and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter to avoid suffering adverse tax consequences, including potentially losing our REIT status. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments, which could materially and adversely affect us. In addition, we may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source-of-income, asset-diversification or distribution requirements for qualifying as a REIT. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments, which could materially and adversely affect us. The ability of our board of directors to revoke our REIT election without stockholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our stockholders. Our charter provides that our board of directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interests to continue 33 Table of Contents to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to qualify as a REIT, we would become subject to federal income tax on our taxable income and would no longer be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our stockholders, which may have adverse consequences on the total return to our stockholders. New legislation, regulation or administrative or judicial action, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of REITs may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, regulation, administrative or judicial action at any time, which could affect the U.S. federal income tax treatment of an investment in our common stock. The U.S. federal income tax rules that affect REITs are under constant review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent revisions to regulations and interpretations. Revisions in U.S. federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could cause us to change our investments and commitments, which could also affect the tax considerations of an investment in our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 