Item 1A. Risk Factors The following is a summary of risk factors relating to the operations of the Bank and the Company. These risk factors are not necessarily presented in order of significance. The United States economy remains weak and unemployment levels are high. A prolonged economic downturn, especially one affecting our geographic market area, will adversely affect our business and financial results. We are particularly exposed to downturns in the U.S. housing market. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past two years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional financial institutions such as the Bank. The Bank’s net loan charge-offs during the fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $4.0 million, $2.0 million and $441 thousand respectively. Historically, the Bank’s net loan charge-offs have been low due to the low level of non-performing loans and the amount of equity in the properties collateralizing the related loans. During fiscal years 2010 and 2009, the Bank recorded a provision for loan losses of $8.9 million and $6.4 million, respectively, compared to $2.1 million in fiscal year 2008. The increases in the provision for loan losses and net loan charge-offs were directly related to the increases in delinquent loans, non-performing loans, and losses on foreclosed property transactions, which were primarily a result of the decline in home prices and lingering negative economic conditions. & #160;The overall amount of the provision for loan losses and net loan charge-offs has not been significant to date because of the Bank’s traditional underwriting standards and the relative economic stability of the geographic areas in our primary lending areas. 39 Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. A worsening of these conditions, especially in our geographic market area, would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and could result in a material decrease in our interest income and/or a material increase in our loan losses. The geographic concentration of our loan portfolio and lending activities makes us vulnerable to a downturn in the local economy. We are currently one of the largest mortgage loan originators in the state of Kansas. Approximately 75% of our loan portfolio is comprised of loans secured by property located in Kansas, and approximately 15% is comprised of loans secured by property located in Missouri. This makes us vulnerable to a downturn in the local economy and real estate markets. Adverse conditions in the local economy such as inflation, unemployment, recession or other factors beyond our control could impact the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which could impact our net interest income. Decreases in local real e state values could adversely affect the value of the property used as collateral for our loans, which could cause us to realize a loss in the event of a foreclosure. Currently there is not a single employer or industry in the area on which the majority of our customers are dependent. For additional information on the local economy, see “Item 1. Business – Market Area and Competition.” If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our borrowers may not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans, and, as a result of the declines in home prices, the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. When determining the amount of the ALLL, we make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining th e amount of the ALLL, we rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our ALLL may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance which is maintained through provisions for loan losses. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. Our policies currently require that we maintain a higher ALLL on loans we purchase from nationwide lenders as compared to the ALLL maintained on those we originate. To the extent we increase our portfolio of purchased loans from nationwide lenders if our stock offering is completed, our ALLL will likely increase, through a provision for loan losses, which will have an adverse effect on net income. Our ALLL at September 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $14.9 million, $10.2 million and $5.8 million, respectively. The increase in our ALLL has primarily been a result of a decline in the performance of some of our mortgage loans due to lingering negative economic conditions and the related collateral values not being sufficient to pay the outstanding loan balance due to the decline in home values. The Bank’s non-performing loans at September 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $32.0 million, $30.9 million and $13.7 million, respectively. Non-performing loans as a percentage of total loans at September 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was 0.62%, 0.55% and 0.26%, respectively. Changes in interest rates could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations are primarily dependent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest earned on loans, MBS, and investment securities, and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in interest rates could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition because the majority of our interest-earning assets are long-term, fixed-rate loans, while the majority of our interest-bearing liabilities are shorter term, and therefore subject to a greater degree of interest rate fluctuation. This type of risk is known as interest rate risk, and is affected by prevailing economic and com petitive conditions. The impact of changes in interest rates on assets is generally observed on the balance sheet and income statement in later periods than the impact of changes on liabilities due to the duration of assets versus liabilities, and also to the time lag between our commitment to originate or purchase a loan and the time we fund the loan, during which time interest rates may change. Interest-bearing liabilities tend to reflect changes in interest rates closer to the time of market rate changes, so the difference in timing may have an adverse effect on our net interest income. 40 Changes in interest rates can also have an adverse effect on our financial condition, as our AFS securities are reported at their estimated fair value, and therefore are impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. We increase or decrease our stockholders’ equity, specifically accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), by the amount of change in the estimated fair value of the AFS securities, net of deferred taxes. Decreases in the fair value of AFS securities would, therefore, adversely impact our stockholders’ equity. The balance of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at September 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $31.9 million, $33.9 million and $(6.0) million, respectively. Changes in interest rates, as they relate to customers, can also have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In times of rising interest rates, default risk may increase among customers with ARM loans as the rates on their loans adjust upward and their payments increase. Rising interest rate environments also entice customers with ARM loans to refinance into fixed-rate loans further exposing the Bank to additional interest rate risk. If the loan is refinanced externally, we could be unable to reinvest cash received from the resulting prepayments at rates comparable to existing loans, which subjects us to reinvestment risk. In decreasing interest rate environments, payments received will likely be invested at the prevailing (decreased) market rate. An i nflux of prepayments can result in an excess of liquidity, which could impact our net interest income if profitable reinvestment opportunities are not immediately available. Prepayment rates are based on demographics, local economic factors, and seasonality, with the main factors affecting prepayment rates being prevailing interest rates and competition. Fluctuations in interest rates also affect customer demand for deposit products. Local competition for deposit dollars could affect our ability to attract deposits, or could result in us paying more for deposits. The Bank’s one-year cumulative excess of interest-earning assets over interest-bearing liabilities as a percentage of assets at September 30, 2010 was 21.06% which signifies a positive gap position, meaning we have more interest-earning assets expected to reprice over the next 12 months than interest-bearing liabilities. In a rising rate environment, a positive gap position would tend to result in an increase in our net interest income. In a decreasing rate environment, a positive gap position would tend to result in a decrease in our net interest income. For additional information about interest rate risk, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in the Annual Report to Stockholders attached as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our strategies to modify our interest rate risk profile may be difficult to implement. Our asset management strategies are designed to decrease our interest rate risk sensitivity. One such strategy is increasing the amount of adjustable-rate and/or short-term assets. We offer ARM loan products and work with correspondent lenders to purchase ARM loans as a means to achieve this strategy. However, lower interest rates would generally create a decrease in borrower demand for adjustable-rate assets, and there is no guarantee that any adjustable-rate assets obtained will not prepay. Conventional mortgage loans may be sold on a bulk basis for portfolio restructuring or on a flow basis as loans are originated, which also subjects us to pricing risk in the secondary market. Additionally, we attempt to invest in shorter-term assets in the investment portfolio as a way to reduce our interest rate sensitivity. We are also managing our liabilities to moderate our interest rate risk sensitivity. We are using our maturing FHLB advances and repurchase agreements to mitigate the impact of the customer demand for long-term fixed-rate mortgages in our local markets by lengthening the maturities of these advances and repurchase agreements, depending on the liquidity or investment opportunities at the time we undertake additional FHLB advances or repurchase agreements. In fiscal year 2010 and 2009, we refinanced $200.0 million and $875.0 million, respectively, of FHLB advances to decrease the interest rate and extend the maturities of the advances. FHLB advances and repurchase agreements will be entered into as liquidity is needed or to fund the purchase of assets that provide for spreads at levels acceptable to manageme nt. If we are unable to originate or purchase adjustable-rate assets at favorable rates or fund loan originations or securities purchases with long-term funding, we may have difficulty executing this asset management strategy and/or it may result in a reduction in profitability. We may have unanticipated credit risk in our investment and MBS portfolio. At September 30, 2010, $2.94 billion, or approximately 35% of our assets, consisted of investment and MBS securities, most of which were issued by, or have principal and interest payments guaranteed by FNMA or FHLMC. On September 7, 2008, the Federal Housing Finance Agency placed FNMA and FHLMC into federal conservatorship. Although the federal government has committed substantial capital to FNMA and FHLMC, there can be no assurance that these credit facilities and other capital infusions will be adequate for their needs. If the financial support is inadequate, or if additional support is not provided when needed, these companies could continue to suffer losses and could fail to honor their guarantees and other obligations. The U.S. Treasury Secretary has suggested that the guarantee payment structure of FNMA and FHLMC should be re-examined. The future roles of FNMA and FHLMC could be significantly reduced and the nature of their guarantees could be eliminated or considerably limited relative to historical measurements. A ny changes to the nature of the guarantees provided by FNMA and FHLMC could have a significant adverse affect on the market value and cash flows of the investment and MBS we hold, resulting in substantial losses. 41 Passage of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act will increase our operational and compliance costs. The Dodd-Frank Act will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Bank’s primary federal regulator, the OTS, will be eliminated and existing federal thrifts will be subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which supervises and regulates all national banks. Existing savings and loan holding companies will be subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various feder al agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorn eys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. The Company intends to complete the Plan of Conversion and Reorganization and may have assets in excess of $10 billion at some point after completing the conversion and reorganization. The Dodd-Frank Act requires minimum leverage (Tier 1) and risk-based capital requirements for savings and loan holding companies (effective in five years) and bank holding companies that are no less stringent than those applicable to banks, which will limit our ability to borrow at the holding company level and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in the Bank, and will exclude certain instruments that previously have been eligible for inclusion by bank holding companies as Tier 1 capital, such as trust preferred securities. A provision of the Dodd-Frank Act, which will become effective one year after enactment, eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest-bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC deposit insurance assessments. Assessments will now be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution, rather than deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250 thousand per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2008, and non-interest-bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The legislation also increases the required minimum reserve ratio for the DIF, from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits, and directs the FDIC to offset the effects of increased assessments on depository institutions with less than $10 billion in assets. The Dodd-Frank Act will require publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and authorizes the SEC to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and our income. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS and the FDIC. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on a bank’s operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of a bank’s ALLL and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws and applicable regulations are subject to frequent change. Any change in these regulations and oversight, whether in the form of r egulatory policy, new regulations or legislation or additional deposit insurance premiums could have a material impact on our operations. 42 In response to the financial crisis, Congress has taken actions that are intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions, and the FDIC has taken actions to increase insurance coverage on deposit accounts. In addition, there have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount delinquent borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit an institution’s ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. A number of the largest mortgage lenders in the United States have voluntarily suspended all foreclosures due to document verification deficiencies. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, or changes in policy, affecting lending and funding practices and liquidity standards. Moreover, bank regulatory agencies have been active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, and have issued many formal enforcement orders requiring capital ratios in excess of regulatory requirements. Bank regulatory agencies, such as the OTS and the FDIC, govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors, and not for the protection or benefit of potential investors. In addition, new laws and regulations may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws and regulations may significantly affect the market s in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, the fees we can charge and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premiums and special assessments will adversely affect our earnings. In 2009, the FDIC levied a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. We recorded an expense of $3.8 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2009, to reflect the special assessment. In addition, the FDIC increased the base assessment rate by seven basis points effective January 1, 2009, and effective April 1, 2009, included additional factors to be used in calculating a financial institution’s total assessment rate. This has resulted in our annual assessment rate increasing from five basis points prior to January 1, 2009 to a current rate of approximately 16 basis points and, therefore, our FDIC insurance premium expense increased compared to prior periods. The FDIC also required all insured institutions to prepay their estimated assessments for the fourth quarter of calendar year 2009, and for all of calendar years 2010, 2011 and 2012. This pre-payment was due on December 30, 2009. The assessment rate for the fourth quarter of calendar year 2009 and for calendar year 2010 was based on each institution’s total base assessment rate for the third quarter of calendar year 2009, modified to assume that the assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009 had been in effect for the entire calendar year third quarter, and the assessment rate for calendar years 2011 and 2012 was calculated as the modified third quarter assessment rate plus an additional three basis points. In addition, every institution’s assessment base for each period was calculated using its third quarter assessment base, adjusted quarterly for an estimated 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of calendar year 2012. We recorded the pre-payment as a prepaid expense, which will be amortized to expense based upon actual balances insured. Our prepayment amount for calendar years 2010, 2011 and 2012 was $25.7 million. Future increases in our assessment rate or special assessments would decrease our earnings. The Company’s ability to pay dividends is subject to the ability of the Bank to make capital distributions to the Company and the waiver of dividends by MHC. The long-term ability of the Company to pay dividends to its stockholders is based primarily upon the ability of the Bank to make capital distributions to the Company, and also on the availability of cash at the holding company level in the event earnings are not sufficient to pay dividends according to the cash dividend payout policy. Under OTS safe harbor regulations, the Bank may distribute to the Company capital not exceeding net income for the current calendar year and the prior two calendar years. At September 30, 2010, the Bank was in compliance with the OTS safe harbor regulations. Currently, the Bank has authorization from the OTS to distribute capital from the Bank to the Company through the quarter ending December 31, 2010. At September 30, 2010, MHC owned 71% of the Company’s outstanding stock. MHC waives its right to dividends on the shares that it owns, which means the amount of dividends paid to public stockholders is significantly higher than it would be if MHC accepted dividends. MHC is not required to waive dividends, but the Company expects this practice to continue. As such, MHC is required to obtain a waiver from the OTS allowing it to waive its right to dividends. The current waiver is effective through December 31, 2010. It is expected that MHC will continue to waive future dividends, except to the extent dividends are needed to fund MHC’s continuing operations, subject to the following. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, effective after the transfer date, a mutual holding company may waive its right to dividends on shares of its subsidiary if either no insider (or associate of an insider) or stock benefit plan of the company holds any share of stock of the class to which the waiver would apply, or if the company gives written notice of the waiver to the Federal Reserve and the Federal Reserve does not object. For a company that waived dividends prior to December 1, 2009, the Federal Reserve may not object to such a waiver if the company's Board of Directors has determined that the waiver is consistent with its fiduciary duties to the members of the company and has included the board resolution and supporting materials for the determination in the notice, provided that the waiver would not be detrimental to the safety a nd soundness of the savings association subsidiary. However, due to reservations expressed by the Federal Reserve about the effect of such waivers, it is uncertain whether the Federal Reserve will permit such waivers in the future. 43 Our stock value may be negatively affected by our corporate structure as an MHC, which may impede takeovers. MHC, as the majority stockholder of the Company, is able to control the outcome of virtually all matters presented to stockholders for their approval, including a proposal to acquire the Company. Accordingly, MHC may prevent the sale of control or merger of the Company or its subsidiaries even if such a transaction were favored by a majority of the public stockholders of the Company, which may have a negative impact on the Company’s stock price. Strong competition may limit growth and profitability. While we are one of the largest mortgage loan originators in the state of Kansas, we compete in the same market areas as local, regional, and national banks, credit unions, mortgage brokerage firms, investment banking firms, investment brokerage firms and savings institutions. We must also compete with online investment and mortgage brokerages and online banks that are not confined to any specific market area. Many of these competitors operate on a national or regional level, are a conglomerate of various financial services providers housed under one corporation, or otherwise have substantially greater financial or technological resources than the Bank. We compete primarily on the basis of the interest rates offered to depositors and the terms of loans offered to borrowers. Should we face competitive pressure to increase deposit rates or decrease loan rates, our net interest income could be adversely affected. Additionally, our competitors may offer products and services that we do not or cannot provide, as certain deposit and loan products fall outside of our accepted level of risk. Our profitability depends upon our ability to compete in our local market areas. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 