Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a number of significant risks. In addition to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, you should consider carefully the following information before making an investment in our securities. The risks set out below are the principal risks with respect to an investment in our securities, and with respect to business development companies. They may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or not presently deemed material by us might also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business and Structure Our investment portfolio is recorded at fair value, with our Board of Directors having final responsibility for overseeing, reviewing and approving, in good faith, its estimate of fair value and, as a result, there is uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. Under the 1940 Act, we are required to carry our portfolio investments at market value or, if there is no readily available market value, at fair value as determined by us in accordance with our written valuation policy, with our Board of Directors having final responsibility for overseeing, reviewing and approving, in good faith, our estimate of fair value. Typically, there will not be a public market for the securities of the privately held companies in which we invest. As a result, we value these securities quarterly at fair value based on input from management, third party independent valuation firms and our audit committee, with the oversight, review and approval of our Board of Directors. The determination of fair value and consequently, the amount of unrealized gains and losses in our portfolio, are to a certain degree, subjective and dependent on a valuation process approved by our Board of Directors. Certain factors that may be considered in determining the fair value of our investments include estimates of the collectability of the principal and interest on our debt investments and expected realization on our equity investments, as well as external events, such as private mergers, sales and acquisitions involving comparable companies. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, they may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates. Our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. Due to this uncertainty, our fair value determinations may cause our net asset value on a given date to materially understate or overstate the value that we may ultimately realize on one or more of our investments. As a result, investors purchasing our securities based on an overstated net asset value would pay a higher price than the value of our investments might warrant. Conversely, investors selling securities during a period in which the net asset value understates the value of our investments will receive a lower price for their securities than the value of our investments might warrant. Our financial condition and results of operations depend on our ability to effectively manage and deploy capital. Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on our ability to effectively manage and deploy capital, which depends, in turn, on our investment adviser’s ability to identify, evaluate and monitor, and our ability to finance and invest in, companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing our investment objective on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our investment adviser’s handling of the investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services and our access to investments offering acceptable terms. In addition to monitoring the performance of our existing investments, our investment adviser’s investment committee may also be called upon, from time to time, to provide managerial assistance to some of our portfolio companies. These demands on their time may distract them or slow the rate of investment. 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS Even if we are able to grow and build upon our investment operations, any failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The results of our operations will depend on many factors, including the availability of opportunities for investment, readily accessible short and long-term funding alternatives in the financial markets and economic conditions. Furthermore, if we cannot successfully operate our business or implement our investment policies and strategies as described herein, it could negatively impact our ability to pay dividends. We may face increasing competition for investment opportunities. We compete for investments with other business development companies and investment funds (including private equity funds, mezzanine funds and small business investment companies), as well as traditional financial services companies such as commercial banks and other sources of funding. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. For example, some competitors have a lower cost of capital and access to funding sources that are not available to us, including from federal government agencies through federal rescue programs such as the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Financial Stability Plan (formerly known as the Troubled Asset Relief Program) or the Small Business Administration. In addition, some of our competitors have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments than we have. These characteristics could allow our competitors to consider a wider variety of investments, establish more relationships and offer better pricing and more flexible structuring than we are able to offer. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. If we are forced to match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure, we may not be able to achieve acceptable returns on our investments or may bear substantial risk of capital loss. A significant part of our competitive advantage stems from the fact that the market for investments in lower middle-market companies is underserved by traditional commercial banks and other financing sources. A significant increase in the number and/or the size of our competitors in this target market could force us to accept less attractive investment terms. Furthermore, many of our competitors have greater experience operating under, or are not subject to, the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company. We believe that certain of our competitors will make first and second lien loans with interest rates and returns that are comparable to or lower than the rates and returns that we target. Therefore, we do not seek to compete solely on the interest rates and returns that we offer to potential portfolio companies. We are dependent upon Full Circle Advisors’ key personnel for our future success. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of Messrs. Stuart and Felton, who serve with Messrs. Chua and Deery as members of the investment committee of Full Circle Advisors. Messrs. Stuart and Felton, together with the other dedicated senior investment professionals available to Full Circle Advisors, evaluate, negotiate, structure, close and monitor our investments. Our future success depends on the continued service of Messrs. Stuart and Felton and the other senior investment professionals available to Full Circle Advisors. We cannot assure you that unforeseen business, medical, personal or other circumstances would not lead Messrs. Stuart or Felton or any other such individual to terminate his relationship with us. The loss of Mr. Stuart, Mr. Felton or any of the other senior investment professionals who serve on Full Circle Advisors’ investment committee, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective as well as on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we can offer no assurance that Full Circle Advisors will continue indefinitely as our investment adviser. The members of Full Circle Advisors’ investment committee are and may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us, and may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time. We expect that Messrs. Stuart and Felton will dedicate a significant portion of their time to the activities of Full Circle Capital; however, they may be engaged in other business activities which could divert their time and attention in the future. Our success depends on the ability of Full Circle Advisors to attract and retain qualified personnel in a competitive environment. Our growth requires that Full Circle Advisors retain and attract new investment and administrative personnel in a competitive market. Its ability to attract and retain personnel with the requisite credentials, experience and skills depends on several factors including, but not limited to, its ability to offer competitive 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS wages, benefits and professional growth opportunities. Many of the entities, including investment funds (such as private equity funds and mezzanine funds) and traditional financial services companies, with which it competes for experienced personnel have greater resources than it has. There are significant potential conflicts of interest which could impact our investment returns. Our executive officers and directors, as well as the current and any future members of our investment adviser, Full Circle Advisors, may serve as officers, directors or principals of other entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do. Accordingly, they may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which obligations may not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. In addition, certain members of Full Circle Advisors’ investment committee presently manage Full Circle Funding, LP, a specialty lender serving lower middle-market companies. Although the existing investment funds managed by Full Circle Funding, LP, which currently consist of the Legacy Funds, are no longer making new investments, any affiliated investment vehicle formed in the future and managed by our investment adviser or its affiliates may, notwithstanding different stated investment objectives, have overlapping investment objectives with our own and, accordingly, may invest in asset classes similar to those targeted by us. As a result, Full Circle Advisors may face conflicts in allocating investment opportunities between us and such other entities. Although Full Circle Advisors will endeavor to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner, it is possible that, in the future, we may not be given the opportunity to participate in investments made by investment funds managed by our investment adviser or an investment manager affiliated with our investment adviser. In any such case, when Full Circle Advisors identifies an investment, it will be forced to choose which investment fund should make the investment. Full Circle Advisors has implemented an allocation policy to ensure the equitable distribution of such investment opportunities consistent with the requirements of the 1940 Act. If our investment adviser forms other affiliates in the future, we may co-invest on a concurrent basis with such other affiliates, subject to compliance with applicable regulations and regulatory guidance and our allocation procedures. In the course of our investing activities, we pay management and incentive fees to Full Circle Advisors and reimburse Full Circle Advisors for certain expenses it incurs. As a result, investors in our common stock invest on a “gross” basis and receive distributions on a “net” basis after expenses, resulting in a lower rate of return than an investor might achieve through direct investments. Accordingly, there may be times when the management team of Full Circle Advisors will have interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict. Full Circle Advisors is not reimbursed for any performance-related compensation for its employees. We have entered into a royalty-free license agreement with our investment adviser, pursuant to which Full Circle Advisors grants us a non-exclusive royalty-free license to use the name “Full Circle.” Under the license agreement, we have the right to use the “Full Circle” name for so long as Full Circle Advisors or one of its affiliates remains our investment adviser. In addition, we will pay Full Circle Service Company, an affiliate of Full Circle Advisors, our allocable portion of overhead and other expenses incurred by Full Circle Service Company in performing its obligations under the Administration Agreement, including rent, the fees and expenses associated with performing compliance functions, and our allocable portion of the compensation of our Chief Financial Officer and any administrative support staff. These arrangements create conflicts of interest that our Board of Directors must monitor. In the ordinary course of business, we may enter into transactions with portfolio companies that may be considered related party transactions. In order to ensure that we do not engage in any prohibited transactions with any persons affiliated with us, we have implemented certain written policies and procedures whereby our executive officers screen each of our transactions for any possible affiliations between the proposed portfolio investment, us, companies controlled by us and our executive officers and directors. We will not enter into any agreements unless and until we are satisfied that doing so will not raise concerns under the 1940 Act or, if such concerns exist, we have taken appropriate actions to seek board review and approval or exemptive relief for such transaction. Our Board of Directors reviews these procedures on an annual basis. 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS We have also adopted a Code of Ethics which applies to, among others, our senior officers, including our Co-Chief Executive Officers and Chief Financial Officer, as well as all of our officers, directors and employees. Our Code of Ethics requires that all employees and directors avoid any conflict, or the appearance of a conflict, between an individual’s personal interests and our interests. Pursuant to our Code of Ethics, each employee and director must disclose any conflicts of interest, or actions or relationships that might give rise to a conflict, to our Chief Compliance Officer. Our Audit Committee is charged with approving any waivers under our Code of Ethics. As required by the NASDAQ corporate governance listing standards, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors is also required to review and approve any transactions with related parties (as such term is defined in Item 404 of Regulation S-K). There are potential conflicts of interest between us and FC Capital Investment Partners (“FCIP”) which could impact our investment returns. FCIP is a multiple series private fund for which we will serve as the managing member and investment adviser. Certain of our officers serve or may serve in an investment management capacity to FCIP. As a result, investment professionals may allocate such time and attention as is deemed appropriate and necessary to carry out operations of FCIP. In this respect, they may experience diversions of their attention from us and potential conflicts of interest between their work for us and their work for FCIP in the event that the interests of FCIP run counter to our interests. FCIP invests in the same or similar asset classes that we target. These investments may be made at the direction of the same individuals acting in their capacity on behalf of us and FCIP. As a result, there may be conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities between us and FCIP. We may or may not participate in investments made by funds managed by us or one of our affiliates. Our incentive fee structure and the formula for calculating the management fee may incentivize Full Circle Advisors to pursue speculative investments, use leverage when it may be unwise to do so, or refrain from delevering when it would otherwise be appropriate to do so. The incentive fee payable by us to Full Circle Advisors may create an incentive for Full Circle Advisors to pursue investments on our behalf that are riskier or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The incentive fee payable to our investment adviser is calculated based on a percentage of our return on invested capital. In addition, our base management fee is calculated on the basis of our gross assets, including assets acquired through the use of leverage. This may encourage our investment adviser to use leverage to increase the aggregate amount of and the return on our investments, even when it may not be appropriate to do so, and to refrain from delevering when it would otherwise be appropriate to do so. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the Company’s likelihood of default, which would impair the value of our securities. In addition, the investment adviser will receive the incentive fee based, in part, upon net capital gains realized on our investments. Unlike that portion of the incentive fee based on income, there will be no hurdle rate applicable to the portion of the incentive fee based on net capital gains. As a result, the investment adviser may have a tendency to invest more capital in investments that are likely to result in capital gains as compared to income producing securities. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns. The incentive fee payable by us to our investment adviser also may induce Full Circle Advisors to invest on our behalf in instruments that have a deferred interest feature, even if such deferred payments would not provide cash necessary to enable us to pay current distributions to our stockholders. Under these investments, we would accrue interest over the life of the investment but would not receive the cash income from the investment until the end of the term. Our net investment income used to calculate the income portion of our investment fee, however, will include accrued interest. Thus, a portion of this incentive fee would be based on income that we have not yet received in cash. In addition, the “catch-up” portion of the incentive fee may encourage Full Circle Advisors to accelerate or defer interest payable by portfolio companies from one calendar quarter to another, potentially resulting in fluctuations in timing and dividend amounts. We may invest, to the extent permitted by law, in the securities and instruments of other investment companies, including private funds, and, to the extent we so invest, will bear our ratable share of any such 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS investment company’s expenses, including management and performance fees. We will also remain obligated to pay management and incentive fees to Full Circle Advisors with respect to the assets invested in the securities and instruments of other investment companies. With respect to each of these investments, each of our stockholders will bear his or her share of the management and incentive fee of Full Circle Advisors as well as indirectly bearing the management and performance fees and other expenses of any investment companies in which we invest. In addition, if we repurchase our debt securities that are outstanding and such repurchase results in our recording a net gain on the extinguishment of debt for financial reporting and tax purposes, such net gain will be included in our pre-incentive fee net investment income for purposes of determining the income incentive fee payable to our investment adviser under the Investment Advisory Agreement. A general increase in interest rates will likely have the effect of making it easier for our investment adviser to receive incentive fees, without necessarily resulting in an increase in our net earnings. Given the structure of our Investment Advisory Agreement with Full Circle Advisors, any general increase in interest rates will likely have the effect of making it easier for Full Circle Advisors to meet the quarterly hurdle rate for payment of income incentive fees under the Investment Advisory Agreement without any additional increase in relative performance on the part of our investment adviser. In addition, in view of the catch-up provision applicable to income incentive fees under the Investment Advisory Agreement, our investment adviser could potentially receive a significant portion of the increase in our investment income attributable to such a general increase in interest rates. If that were to occur, our increase in net earnings, if any, would likely be significantly smaller than the relative increase in our investment adviser’s income incentive fee resulting from such a general increase in interest rates. Our investment adviser has the right to resign on 60 days’ notice, and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. Our investment adviser has the right, under the Investment Advisory Agreement, to resign at any time upon not more than 60 days’ written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If our investment adviser resigns, we may not be able to find a new investment adviser or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, business and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and investment activities is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by our investment adviser and its affiliates. Even if we are able to retain comparable management, whether internal or external, the integration of such management and their lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. We have a limited operating history as a business development company. As a result of our limited operating history as a business development company, we are subject to many of the business risks and uncertainties associated with recently formed businesses, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objective and that the value of your investment could decline substantially. Our investment adviser may not be able to achieve the same or similar returns as those achieved by Messrs. Stuart and Felton while they were employed at prior positions. Although in the past Messrs. Stuart and Felton held senior positions at a number of investment firms, their track record and achievements are not necessarily indicative of future results that will be achieved by our investment adviser. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve the results realized by prior vehicles managed by Messrs. Stuart or Felton. 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS Any failure on our part to maintain our status as a business development company would reduce our operating flexibility. We have elected to be regulated as a business development company under the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of business development companies. For example, business development companies are required to invest at least 70% of their gross assets in specified types of securities, primarily in private companies or thinly-traded U.S. public companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. Furthermore, any failure to comply with the requirements imposed on business development companies by the 1940 Act could cause the SEC to bring an enforcement action against us and/or expose us to claims of private litigants. In addition, upon approval of a majority of our stockholders, we may elect to withdraw our status as a business development company. If we decide to withdraw our election, or if we otherwise fail to qualify, or maintain our qualification, as a business development company, we may be subject to the substantially greater regulation under the 1940 Act as a closed-end investment company. Compliance with such regulations would significantly decrease our operating flexibility, and could significantly increase our costs of doing business. Regulations governing our operation as a business development company affect our ability to raise additional capital and the way in which we do so. As a business development company, the necessity of raising additional capital may expose us to risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we will be permitted, as a business development company, to issue senior securities in amounts such that our asset coverage ratio, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% of gross assets less all liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities, after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. Also, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness would not be available for distributions to our common stockholders. Furthermore, as a result of issuing senior securities, we would also be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss. As of September 22, 2014, we had approximately $33.6 million principal amount of 8.25% Notes due 2020 (the “Notes”) outstanding. As of June 30, 2014, we had approximately $8.4 million outstanding under our $45 million senior secured credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) with Santander Bank, N.A. f/k/a Sovereign Bank. N.A. (“Santander Bank”), subject to borrowing base requirements. If we issue preferred stock, the preferred stock would rank “senior” to common stock in our capital structure, preferred stockholders would have separate voting rights on certain matters and might have other rights, preferences, or privileges more favorable than those of our common stockholders, and the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in your best interest. We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the then-current net asset value per share of our common stock if our Board of Directors determines that such sale is in the best interests of Full Circle Capital and its stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price that, in the determination of our Board of Directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, then the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time will decrease, and you may experience dilution. We borrow money, which magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and increases the risk of investing in us. The use of leverage magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and, therefore, increases the risks associated with investing in our securities. We borrow from and issue senior debt securities to banks, insurance companies and/or other lenders. Holders of these senior securities will have fixed dollar claims on 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS our assets that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders, and we would expect such lenders to seek recovery against our assets in the event of a default. If the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any decrease in our income would cause net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline could also negatively affect our ability to make dividend payments on our common stock. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique. Our ability to service any debt that we incur will depend largely on our financial performance and will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. Moreover, as the management fee payable to our investment adviser, Full Circle Advisors, is payable based on our gross assets, including those assets acquired through the use of leverage, Full Circle Advisors has a financial incentive to incur leverage which may not be consistent with our stockholders’ interests. In addition, our common stockholders bear the burden of any increase in our expenses as a result of leverage, including any increase in the management fee payable to Full Circle Advisors. As a business development company, we are generally required to meet an asset coverage ratio, defined under the 1940 Act as the ratio of our gross assets (less all liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities) to our outstanding senior securities, of at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. If this ratio declines below 200%, we may not be able to incur additional debt and could be required by law to sell a portion of our investments to repay some debt when it is disadvantageous to do so, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, and we may not be able to make distributions. The amount of leverage that we employ depends on our investment adviser’s and our Board of Directors’ assessment of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. In addition, the Credit Facility and Notes impose, and any other debt facility into which we may enter would likely impose, financial and operating covenants that restrict our business activities, including limitations that could hinder our ability to finance additional loans and investments or to make the distributions required to maintain our status as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. For example, the Credit Facility requires us to maintain a minimum balance sheet leverage ratio and subjects us to prepayment fees in certain circumstances. Illustration. The following table illustrates the effect of leverage on returns from an investment in our common stock assuming various annual returns, net of expenses. The calculations in the table below are hypothetical and actual returns may be higher or lower than those appearing below. Assumed Return on Our Portfolio(1)(2) (net of expenses) (10.0)% (5.0)% 0.0% 5.0% 10.0% Corresponding net return to common stockholder (20.84 )% (12.27 )% (3.69 )% 4.89 % 13.46 % (1) Assumes $125.2 million in total portfolio assets, $33.6 million in average debt outstanding, $73.0 million in net assets, and an average cost of funds of 8.01%. Actual interest payments may be different. (2) In order for us to cover our annual interest payments on indebtedness, we must achieve annual returns on our June 30, 2014 total assets of at least 2.15%. Pending legislation may allow us to incur additional leverage. As a BDC, under the 1940 Act we generally are not permitted to incur indebtedness unless immediately after such borrowing we have an asset coverage for total borrowings of at least 200% (i.e., the amount of debt may not exceed 50% of the value of our assets). Recent legislation introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives, if passed, would modify this section of the 1940 Act and increase the amount of debt that BDCs may incur by modifying the asset coverage percentage from 200% to 150%. As a result, we may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future and therefore your risk of an investment may increase. An inability to raise capital or access debt financing could negatively affect our business. We will need to periodically access the capital markets to raise cash to fund new investments. We have elected to be treated as a RIC and operate in a manner so as to qualify for the U.S. federal income tax 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS treatment applicable to RICs. Among other things, in order to maintain our RIC status, we must distribute to our stockholders on a timely basis generally an amount equal to at least 90% of our investment company taxable income (as defined by the Code), and, as a result, such distributions will not be available to fund investment originations. As a result, we must continue to borrow from financial institutions and issue additional securities to fund our growth. Unfavorable economic or capital market conditions may increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or could result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. Over the past several years, the capital markets and the credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption and, accordingly, there has been and will continue to be uncertainty in the financial markets in general. An inability to successfully access the capital or credit markets for either equity or debt could limit our ability to grow our business and fully execute our business strategy and could decrease our earnings, if any. If the fair value of our assets declines substantially, we may fail to maintain the asset coverage ratios imposed upon us by the 1940 Act. Any such failure, or a tightening or general disruption of the credit markets, would affect our ability to issue senior securities, including borrowings, and pay dividends, which could materially impair our business operations. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including our ability or inability to make investments in companies that meet our investment criteria, the interest rate payable on the debt securities we acquire, the level of portfolio dividend and fee income, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Our Board of Directors is authorized to reclassify any unissued shares of common stock into one or more classes of preferred stock, which could convey special rights and privileges to its owners. Under Maryland General Corporation Law and our charter, our Board of Directors is authorized to classify and reclassify any authorized but unissued shares of stock into one or more classes of stock, including preferred stock. Prior to issuance of shares of each class or series, the Board of Directors will be required by Maryland law and our charter to set the terms, preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or other distributions, qualifications and terms or conditions of redemption for each class or series. Thus, the Board of Directors could authorize the issuance of shares of preferred stock with terms and conditions which could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in their best interest. The cost of any such reclassification would be borne by our common stockholders. Certain matters under the 1940 Act require the separate vote of the holders of any issued and outstanding preferred stock. For example, holders of preferred stock would vote as a separate class from the holders of common stock on a proposal to cease operations as a business development company. In addition, the 1940 Act provides that holders of preferred stock are entitled to vote separately from holders of common stock to elect two preferred stock directors. We currently have no plans to issue preferred stock. The issuance of preferred shares convertible into shares of common stock may also reduce the net income and net asset value per share of our common stock upon conversion, provided, that we will only be permitted to issue such convertible preferred stock to the extent we comply with the requirements of Section 61 of the 1940 Act, including obtaining common stockholder approval. These effects, among others, could have an adverse effect on your investment in our common stock. Our Board of Directors may change our investment objective, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval, the effects of which may be adverse. Our Board of Directors has the authority to modify or waive our investment objective, current operating policies, investment criteria and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies, investment criteria and strategies would have on our business, net asset value, operating results and value of our stock. However, the effects might be adverse, which could negatively impact our ability to pay you dividends and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. Although we have elected to be treated as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code, no assurance can be given that we will be able to continue to qualify for and maintain RIC status. To maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code, we must meet the following annual distribution, income source and asset diversification requirements. The annual distribution requirement for a RIC will be satisfied if we distribute to our stockholders on an annual basis at least 90% of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any. Because we use debt financing, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to satisfy the distribution requirement. If we are unable to make the required distributions, we could fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. The income source requirement will be satisfied if we obtain at least 90% of our income for each year from dividends, interest, gains from the sale of stock or securities or similar sources. The asset diversification requirement will be satisfied if we meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. Failure to meet those requirements may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, and therefore will be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses. Further, the illiquidity of our investments may make them difficult or impossible to dispose in a timely manner. If we fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment for any reason and become subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. There is a risk that our stockholders may not receive distributions or that our distributions may not grow over time. We intend to make distributions on a monthly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a business development company, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. See “Business — Regulation.” We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. For federal income tax purposes, we include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the origination of a loan or possibly in other circumstances, or contractual PIK interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. Such original issue discounts or increases in loan balances as a result of contractual PIK arrangements will be included in income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We are also required to include in income certain other amounts that we do not receive in cash. Since, in certain cases, we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the annual distribution requirement necessary to maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code. In addition, since our incentive fee is payable on our income recognized, rather than cash received, we may be required to pay advisory fees on income before or without receiving cash representing such income. The base management fee we pay to our adviser may also increase in the event that the accrual of non-cash income results in an increase to the fair value of our investments. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times and/or at prices we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or forgo new investment opportunities in order to pay advisory fees. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. For additional discussion regarding the tax implications of a RIC, please see “Business — Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations.” 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may in the future choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case you may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash you receive. We may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in part in our stock. Under certain applicable provision of the Code and the Treasury regulations, distributions payable in cash or in shares of stock at the election of shareholders are treated as taxable dividends. The Internal Revenue Service has issued private rulings indicating that this rule will apply even if the total amount of cash that may be distributed is limited to no more than 20% of the total distribution. Under these rulings, if too many shareholders elect to receive their distributions in cash, each such shareholder would receive a pro rata share of the total cash to be distributed and would receive the remainder of their distribution in shares of stock. If we decide to make any distributions consistent with these rulings that are payable in part in our stock, taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend (whether received in cash, our stock, or combination thereof) as ordinary income (or as long-term capital gain to the extent such distribution is properly designated as a capital gain dividend) to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for United States federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. stockholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of any cash received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business or cause us to alter our business strategy. We and our portfolio companies are subject to applicable local, state and federal laws and regulations, including, without limitation, federal immigration laws and regulations. New legislation may be enacted or new interpretations, rulings or regulations could be adopted, including those governing the types of investments we are permitted to make, any of which could harm us and our stockholders, potentially with retroactive effect. Additionally, any changes to the laws and regulations governing our operations relating to permitted investments may cause us to alter our investment strategy in order to avail ourselves of new or different opportunities. Such changes could result in material differences to the strategies and plans set forth herein and may result in our investment focus shifting from the areas of expertise of our investment adviser’s investment committee to other types of investments in which the investment committee may have less expertise or little or no experience. Thus, any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. We incur significant costs as a result of being a publicly traded company. As a publicly traded company, we incur legal, accounting and other expenses, including costs associated with the periodic reporting requirements applicable to a company whose securities are registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, as well as additional corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and other rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Terrorist attacks, acts of war or natural disasters may affect any market for our common stock, impact the businesses in which we invest and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Terrorist acts, acts of war or natural disasters may disrupt our operations, as well as the operations of the businesses in which we invest. Such acts have created, and continue to create, economic and political uncertainties and have contributed to global economic instability. Future terrorist activities, military or security operations, or natural disasters could further weaken the domestic/global economies and create additional uncertainties, which may negatively impact the businesses in which we invest directly or indirectly and, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Losses from terrorist attacks and natural disasters are generally uninsurable. 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS Uncertainty about the financial stability of the United States and of several countries in the European Union (EU) could have a significant adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to federal budget deficit concerns, S&P downgraded the federal government’s credit rating from AAA to AA+ for the first time in history on August 5, 2011. Further, Moody’s and Fitch have warned that they may downgrade the federal government’s credit rating. Further downgrades or warnings by S&P or other rating agencies, and the government’s credit and deficit concerns in general, could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact both the perception of credit risk associated with our debt portfolio and our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. In addition, a decreased credit rating could create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which may weigh heavily on our financial performance and the value of our common stock. In 2010, a financial crisis emerged in Europe, triggered by high budget deficits and rising direct and contingent sovereign debt in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, which created concerns about the ability of these nations to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. Risks and ongoing concerns resulting from the debt crisis in Europe could have a detrimental impact on the global economic recovery, sovereign and non-sovereign debt in these countries and the financial condition of European financial institutions. Market and economic disruptions have affected, and may continue to affect, consumer confidence levels and spending, personal bankruptcy rates, levels of incurrence and default on consumer debt and home prices, among other factors. We cannot assure you that the market disruptions in Europe, including the increased cost of funding for certain governments and financial institutions, will not spread, and we cannot assure you that future assistance packages will be available, or if available, sufficient to stabilize the affected countries and markets in Europe or elsewhere. To the extent uncertainty regarding any economic recovery in Europe continues to negatively impact consumer confidence and consumer credit factors, our business and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. On December 18, 2013, the U.S. Federal Reserve announced that it would scale back its bond-buying program, or quantitative easing, which is designed to stimulate the economy and expand the Federal Reserve’s holdings of long-term securities until key economic indicators, such as the unemployment rate, show signs of improvement. The Federal Reserve signaled it would reduce its purchases of long-term Treasury bonds and would scale back on its purchases of mortgage-backed securities. It is unclear what effect, if any, the incremental reduction in the rate of the Federal Reserve’s monthly purchases will have on the value of our investments. However, it is possible that absent continued quantitative easing by the Federal Reserve, these developments, along with the European sovereign debt crisis, could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. A failure or the perceived risk of a failure to raise the statutory debt limit of the United States could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As has been widely reported, the United States Treasury Secretary has stated that the federal government may not be able to meet its debt payments in the relatively near future unless the federal debt ceiling is raised. If legislation increasing the debt ceiling is not enacted and the debt ceiling is reached, the federal government may stop or delay making payments on its obligations. A failure by Congress to raise the debt limit would increase the risk of default by the United States on its obligations, as well as the risk of other economic dislocations. If the U.S. government fails to complete its budget process or to provide for a continuing resolution before the expiration of the current continuing resolution, another federal government shutdown may result. Such a failure or the perceived risk of such a failure, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on the financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and throughout the world. It could also limit our ability and the ability of our portfolio companies to obtain financing, and it could have a material adverse effect on the valuation of our portfolio companies. Consequently, the continued uncertainty in the general economic environment, including the recent government shutdown and potential debt ceiling implications, as well in specific economies of several individual geographic markets in which our portfolio companies operate, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Relating to Our Investments Our investments are very risky and highly speculative, and the lower middle-market companies we target may have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet their future capital needs, which may limit their ability to grow or to repay their outstanding indebtedness upon maturity. We invest primarily in senior secured term loans, mezzanine debt and select equity investments issued by leveraged companies. Senior Secured Loans. There is a risk that the collateral securing our loans may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business and market conditions, including as a result of the inability of the portfolio company to raise additional capital, and, in some circumstances, our lien could be subordinated to claims of other creditors. In addition, deterioration in a portfolio company’s financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the collateral for the loan. Consequently, the fact that a loan is secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the loan’s terms, or at all, or that we will be able to collect on the loan should we be forced to enforce our remedies. Mezzanine Loans. Our mezzanine debt investments are generally subordinated to senior loans and are generally unsecured. As such, other creditors may rank senior to us in the event of an insolvency, which could likely in many cases result in a substantial or complete loss on such investment in the case of such insolvency. This may result in an above average amount of risk and loss of principal. Equity Investments. When we invest in senior secured loans or mezzanine loans, we may acquire equity securities, including warrants, as well. In addition, we may invest directly in the equity securities of portfolio companies. The equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. In addition, investing in lower middle-market companies involves a number of significant risks, including: • these companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; • they typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; • they are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; • they generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. In addition, our executive officers, directors and our investment adviser may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies; • they may have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs, which may limit their ability to grow or to repay their outstanding indebtedness upon maturity; and 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS • a portion of our income may be non-cash income, such as contractual PIK interest, which represents interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. Instruments bearing PIK interest typically carry higher interest rates as a result of their payment deferral and increased credit risk. When we recognize income in connection with PIK interest, there is a risk that such income may become uncollectable if the borrower defaults. Investing in lower middle-market companies involves a high degree of risk and our financial results may be affected adversely if one or more of our significant portfolio investments defaults on its loans or fails to perform as we expect. Our portfolio consists primarily of debt and equity investments in privately owned lower middle-market companies. Investing in lower middle-market companies involves a number of significant risks. Typically, the debt in which we invest is not initially rated by any rating agency; however, we believe that if such investments were rated, they would be below investment grade. Compared to larger publicly owned companies, these lower middle-market companies may be in a weaker financial position and experience wider variations in their operating results, which may make them more vulnerable to economic downturns and other business disruptions. Typically, these companies need more capital to compete; however, their access to capital is limited and their cost of capital is often higher than that of their competitors. Our portfolio companies face intense competition from larger companies with greater financial, technical and marketing resources and their success typically depends on the managerial talents and efforts of an individual or a small group of persons. Therefore, the loss of any of their key employees could affect a portfolio company’s ability to compete effectively and harm its financial condition. Further, some of these companies conduct business in regulated industries that are susceptible to regulatory changes. These factors could impair the cash flow of our portfolio companies and result in other events, such as bankruptcy. These events could limit a portfolio company’s ability to repay its obligations to us, which may have an adverse effect on the return on, or the recovery of, our investment in these businesses. Deterioration in a borrower’s financial condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the loan’s collateral and the fair market value of the loan. Most of the loans in which we invest are not structured to fully amortize during their lifetime. Accordingly, if a borrower has not previously pre-paid its loan to us, a significant portion of the principal amount due on such a loan may be due at maturity. As of June 30, 2014, none of the Level 3 debt instruments in our portfolio, on a fair value basis, will fully amortize prior to maturity. In order to create liquidity to pay the final principal payment, borrowers typically must raise additional capital or sell their assets, which could potentially result in the collateral being sold for less than its fair market value. If they are unable to raise sufficient funds to repay us or we have not elected to enter into a new loan agreement providing for an extended maturity, the loan will go into default, which will require Full Circle Capital to foreclose on the borrower’s assets, even if the loan was otherwise performing prior to maturity. This will deprive Full Circle Capital from immediately obtaining full recovery on the loan and prevent or delay the reinvestment of the loan proceeds in other, more profitable investments. Some of these companies cannot obtain financing from public capital markets or from traditional credit sources, such as commercial banks. Accordingly, loans made to these types of companies pose a higher default risk than loans made to companies that have access to traditional credit sources. An investment strategy focused primarily on privately held companies presents certain challenges, including the lack of available information about these companies, a dependence on the talents and efforts of only a few key portfolio company personnel and a greater vulnerability to economic downturns. We invest primarily in privately held companies. Generally, little public information exists about these companies, and we are required to rely on the ability of Full Circle Advisors’ investment committee to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. Also, privately held companies frequently have less diverse product lines and smaller market presence than larger competitors. These factors could adversely affect our investment returns as compared to companies investing primarily in the securities of public companies. 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We invest primarily in senior secured term debt issued by lower middle-market companies. Our portfolio companies may have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or in some cases senior to, the debt in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may entitle the holders to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments with respect to the debt instruments in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt instruments in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. There may be circumstances where our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims. Even though we may have structured most of our investments as secured loans, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances, and based upon principles of equitable subordination as defined by existing case law, a bankruptcy court could subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors and transfer any lien securing such subordinated claim to the bankruptcy estate. The principles of equitable subordination defined by case law have generally indicated that a claim may be subordinated only if its holder is guilty of misconduct or where the senior loan is re-characterized as an equity investment and the senior lender has actually provided significant managerial assistance to the bankrupt debtor. We may also be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by us with respect to a borrower’s business or instances where we exercise control over the borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender’s liability claim, including as a result of actions taken in rendering significant managerial assistance or actions to compel and collect payments from the borrower outside the ordinary course of business. Second priority liens on collateral securing loans that we make to our portfolio companies may be subject to control by senior creditors with first priority liens. If there is a default, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to repay in full both the first priority creditors and us. Certain loans that we make are secured by a second priority security interest in the same collateral pledged by a portfolio company to secure senior debt owed by the portfolio company to commercial banks or other traditional lenders. Often the senior lender has procured covenants from the portfolio company prohibiting the incurrence of additional secured debt without the senior lender’s consent. Prior to and as a condition of permitting the portfolio company to borrow money from us secured by the same collateral pledged to the senior lender, the senior lender will require assurances that it will control the disposition of any collateral in the event of bankruptcy or other default. In many such cases, the senior lender will require us to enter into an “intercreditor agreement” prior to permitting the portfolio company to borrow from us. Typically the intercreditor agreements we will be requested to execute expressly subordinate our debt instruments to those held by the senior lender and further provide that the senior lender shall control: (1) the commencement of foreclosure or other proceedings to liquidate and collect on the collateral; (2) the nature, timing and conduct of foreclosure or other collection proceedings; (3) the amendment of any collateral document; (4) the release of the security interests in respect of any collateral; and (5) the waiver of defaults under any security agreement. Because of the control we may cede to senior lenders under intercreditor agreements we may enter, we may be unable to realize the proceeds of any collateral securing some of our loans. Capital markets have recently been in a period of disruption and instability. These market conditions have materially and adversely affected debt and equity capital markets in the United States and abroad, which had, and may in the future have, a negative impact on our business and operations. The global capital markets have recently been in a period of disruption as evidenced by a lack of liquidity in the debt capital markets, significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of 43 TABLE OF CONTENTS credit risk in the broadly syndicated credit market and the failure of certain major financial institutions. Despite actions of the United States federal government and foreign governments, these events contributed to worsening general economic conditions that materially and adversely impacted the broader financial and credit markets and reduced the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole and financial services firms in particular. While recent indicators suggest improvement in the capital markets, we cannot provide any assurance that these conditions will not worsen. Under current conditions, we and other companies in the financial services sector may have to access, if available, alternative markets for debt and equity capital. Equity capital may be difficult to raise because as a business development company we are generally not able to issue additional shares of our common stock at a price less than net asset value. In addition, our ability to incur indebtedness (including by issuing preferred stock) is limited by applicable regulations such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, must equal at least 200% immediately after each time we incur indebtedness. The debt capital that will be available, if at all, may be at a higher cost and on less favorable terms and conditions in the future. Any inability to raise capital could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if required. As a result, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have recorded our investments. In addition, significant changes in the capital markets, including the recent extreme volatility and disruption, have had, and may in the future have, a negative effect on the valuations of our investments and on the potential for liquidity events involving our investments. An inability to raise capital, and any required sale of our investments for liquidity purposes, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Uncertainty relating to the LIBOR calculation process may adversely affect the value of our portfolio of the LIBOR-indexed, floating-rate debt securities. Concerns have been publicized that some of the member banks surveyed by the British Bankers’ Association (“BBA”) in connection with the calculation of LIBOR across a range of maturities and currencies may have been under-reporting or otherwise manipulating the inter-bank lending rate applicable to them in order to profit on their derivatives positions or to avoid an appearance of capital insufficiency or adverse reputational or other consequences that may have resulted from reporting inter-bank lending rates higher than those they actually submitted. A number of BBA member banks have entered into settlements with their regulators and law enforcement agencies with respect to alleged manipulation of LIBOR, and investigations by regulators and governmental authorities in various jurisdictions are ongoing. Actions by the BBA, regulators or law enforcement agencies may result in changes to the manner in which LIBOR is determined. Uncertainty as to the nature of such potential changes may adversely affect the market for LIBOR-based securities, including our portfolio of LIBOR-indexed, floating-rate debt securities. In addition, any further changes or reforms to the determination or supervision of LIBOR may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in reported LIBOR, which could have an adverse impact on the market for LIBOR-based securities or the value of our portfolio of LIBOR-indexed, floating-rate debt securities. Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results. In recent years, the economy was in the midst of a recession and in a difficult part of a credit cycle. Many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets may increase and the value of our portfolio may decrease during these periods as we are required to record the values of our investments. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments at fair value. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results. 44 TABLE OF CONTENTS A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, acceleration of the time when the loans are due and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize the portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt that we hold. We may incur additional expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided significant managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. Generally, we invest in companies whose securities are not publicly traded, and whose securities will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell these investments when desired. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded these investments. As a result, we do not expect to achieve liquidity in our investments in the near-term. Our investments will usually be subject to contractual or legal restrictions on resale or are otherwise illiquid because there is usually no established trading market for such investments. The illiquidity of most of our investments may make it difficult for us to dispose of them at a favorable price, and, as a result, we may suffer losses. Our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our portfolio. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as “follow-on” investments, in order to: (i) increase or maintain in whole or in part our equity ownership percentage; (ii) exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or a subsequent financing; or (iii) attempt to preserve or enhance the value of our investment. We may elect not to make follow-on investments or otherwise lack sufficient funds to make those investments. We will have the discretion to make any follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources. The failure to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we do not want to increase our concentration of risk, we prefer other opportunities, we are subject to business development company requirements that would prevent such follow-on investments, or the follow-on investment would affect our RIC tax status. Our portfolio may lack diversification among portfolio companies which may subject us to a risk of significant loss if one or more of these companies defaults on its obligations under any of its debt instruments. Our portfolio may hold a limited number of portfolio companies. For example, the 5 largest investments in our portfolio as of June 30, 2014 represented 33.1% of the portfolio assets of the Company. Such percentage is not inclusive of our holdings of United States Treasury Bills. Beyond the asset diversification requirements associated with our qualification as a RIC under the Code, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments may be concentrated in relatively few companies. As our portfolio is less diversified than the portfolios of some larger funds, we are more susceptible to failure if a single loan fails. Similarly, the aggregate returns we realize may be significantly adversely affected if a small number of investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. Our portfolio may be concentrated in a limited number of industries, which may subject us to a risk of significant loss if there is a downturn in a particular industry in which a number of our investments are concentrated. Our portfolio may be concentrated in a limited number of industries. A downturn in any particular industry in which we are invested could significantly impact the aggregate returns we realize. 45 TABLE OF CONTENTS As of June 30, 2014, our investments in the business services industry (such as companies that provide services related to data and information, information retrieval, asset recovery, and energy efficiency services) represented approximately 30% of the fair value of our portfolio, our investments in the financial services industry represented approximately 19% of the fair value of our portfolio, our investments in the communications industry represented approximately 12% of our portfolio, our investments in the healthcare industry represented approximately 10% of the fair value of our portfolio, and our investments in the media industry represented approximately 9% of the fair value of our portfolio. Such percentages are not inclusive of our holdings of United States Treasury Bills. In addition, we may from time to time invest a relatively significant percentage of our portfolio in industries we do not necessarily target. If an industry in which we have significant investments suffers from adverse business or economic conditions, as these industries have to varying degrees, a material portion of our investment portfolio could be affected adversely, which, in turn, could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Because we generally do not hold controlling equity interests in our portfolio companies, we may not be in a position to exercise control over our portfolio companies or to prevent decisions by management of our portfolio companies that could decrease the value of our investments. We generally do not hold controlling equity positions in our portfolio companies. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and that the management and/or stockholders of a portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity of the debt and equity investments that we typically hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company and may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments. Defaults by our portfolio companies will harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize a portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt or equity securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company. If any of these occur, it could materially and adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Any unrealized losses we experience on our loan portfolio may be an indication of future realized losses, which could reduce our income available for distribution. As a business development company, we are required to carry our investments at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors. Decreases in the fair values of our investments are recorded as unrealized depreciation. Any unrealized losses in our loan portfolio could be an indication of a portfolio company’s inability to meet its repayment obligations to us with respect to the affected loans. This could result in realized losses in the future and ultimately in reductions of our income available for distribution in future periods. Prepayments of our debt investments by our portfolio companies could adversely impact our results of operations and reduce our return on equity. We are subject to the risk that the investments we make in our portfolio companies may be repaid prior to maturity. When this occurs, we will generally reinvest these proceeds in temporary investments or repay our Credit Facility, depending on future investment in new portfolio companies. These temporary investments will typically have substantially lower yields than the debt being prepaid and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. Any future investment in a new portfolio company may also be at lower yields than the debt that was repaid. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our portfolio companies elect to prepay amounts owed to us. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact our return on equity, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. The investments in our portfolio have historically experienced only limited prepayments. 46 TABLE OF CONTENTS Because we use debt to finance our investments, changes in interest rates will affect our cost of capital and net investment income. Because we borrow money to make investments, our net investment income will depend, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest those funds. As a result, we can offer no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income in the event we use debt to finance our investments. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds would increase, which could reduce our net investment income. We expect that our long-term fixed-rate investments will be financed primarily with equity and long-term debt. We may use interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Such techniques may include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. Our investment adviser does not have significant experience with utilizing these techniques and did not implement these techniques to any significant extent with the Legacy Portfolio. If we do not implement these techniques properly, we could experience losses on our hedging positions, which could be material. You should also be aware that a rise in the general level of interest rates can be expected to lead to higher interest rates applicable to our debt investments. Accordingly, an increase in interest rates would make it easier for us to meet or exceed the incentive fee hurdle rate and may result in a substantial increase in the amount of incentive fees payable to our investment adviser with respect to our pre-incentive fee net investment income. We may not realize gains from our equity investments. Certain investments that we may make include warrants or other equity securities. Investments in equity securities involve a number of significant risks, including the risk of further dilution as a result of additional issuances, inability to access additional capital and failure to pay current distributions. Investments in preferred securities involve special risks, such as the risk of deferred distributions, credit risk, illiquidity and limited voting rights. In addition, we may from time to time make non-control, equity investments in portfolio companies. Our goal is ultimately to realize gains upon our disposition of such equity interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. We also may be unable to realize any value if a portfolio company does not have a liquidity event, such as a sale of the business, recapitalization or public offering, which would allow us to sell the underlying equity interests. We often seek puts or similar rights to give us the right to sell our equity securities back to the portfolio company issuer. We may be unable to exercise these puts rights for the consideration provided in our investment documents if the issuer is in financial distress. Investments in foreign securities may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments. Our investment strategy contemplates possible investments in debt securities of foreign companies. Our investment adviser does not have significant experience with investments in foreign securities and did not acquire such investments to any significant extent in connection with its management of the Legacy Portfolio. Investing in foreign companies may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. Although all of our investments are U.S. dollar-denominated, any investments denominated in a foreign currency will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency will change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation, and political developments. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but we can offer no assurance that we will, in fact, hedge currency risk, or that if we do, such strategies will be effective. 47 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may expose ourselves to risks if we engage in hedging transactions. If we engage in hedging transactions, we may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. We may utilize instruments such as forward contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in currency exchange rates and market interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the underlying portfolio positions increase. It may not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. In addition, it may not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against currency fluctuations affecting the value of securities denominated in non-U.S. currencies because the value of those securities is likely to fluctuate as a result of factors not related to currency fluctuations. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Shares of closed-end investment companies, including business development companies, may trade at a discount to their net asset value. Shares of closed-end investment companies, including business development companies, may trade at a discount from net asset value. This characteristic of closed-end investment companies and business development companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share may decline. Our common stock price may be volatile and may decrease substantially, and our stockholders may lose money in connection with an investment in our shares. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The price of our common stock may increase or decrease, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • investor demand for our shares; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of business development companies or other companies in our sector, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; • exclusion of our common stock from certain market indices, such as the Russell 2000 Financial Services Index, which could reduce the ability of certain investment funds to own our common stock and put short-term selling pressure on our common stock; • changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines with respect to RICs or business development companies; • failure to qualify as a RIC, or the loss of RIC status; • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; • changes, or perceived changes, in the value of our portfolio investments; • departures of Full Circle Advisors’ key personnel; • operating performance of companies comparable to us; or • general economic conditions and trends and other external factors. In the event our common stock price decreases, our stockholders may lose money. 48 TABLE OF CONTENTS In addition, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price once a market for our stock is established, we may become the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. Existing stockholders may incur dilution if we sell shares of our common stock in one or more offerings at prices below the then current net asset value per share of our common stock or issue securities to subscribe to, convert to or purchase shares of our common stock. The 1940 Act prohibits us from selling shares of our common stock at a price below the current net asset value per share of such stock, with certain exceptions. One such exception is prior stockholder approval of issuances below net asset value provided that our Board of Directors makes certain determinations. At our most recent Annual Stockholders Meeting, our stockholders approved a proposal that authorizes us to sell shares of our common stock below the then current net asset value per share of our common stock in one or more offerings for a period of one year ending on the earlier of January 17, 2015 or our next Annual Stockholders Meeting. Continued access to this exception will require approval of similar proposals at future stockholder meetings. Any decision to sell shares of our common stock below the then current net asset value per share of our common stock would be subject to the determination by our Board of Directors that such issuance is in our and our stockholders’ best interests. If we were to sell shares of our common stock below net asset value per share, such sales would result in an immediate dilution to the net asset value per share held by our existing stockholders. This dilution would occur as a result of the sale of shares at a price below the then current net asset value per share of our common stock and a proportionately greater decrease in a stockholder’s interest in our earnings and assets and voting interest in us than the increase in our assets resulting from such issuance. In addition, if we issue securities to subscribe to, convert to or purchase shares of common stock, the exercise or conversion of such securities would increase the number of outstanding shares of our common stock. Any such exercise would be dilutive on the voting power of existing stockholders, and could be dilutive with regard to dividends and our net asset value, and other economic aspects of the common stock. Because the number of shares of common stock that could be so issued and the timing of any issuance is not currently known, the actual dilutive effect cannot be predicted; however, the example below illustrates the effect of dilution to existing stockholders resulting from the sale of common stock at prices below the net asset value of such shares. Illustration: Example of Dilutive Effect of the Issuance of Shares Below Net Asset Value. Assume that Company XYZ has 1,000,000 total shares outstanding, $15,000,000 in total assets and $5,000,000 in total liabilities. The net asset value per share of the common stock of Company XYZ is $10.00. The following table illustrates the reduction to net asset value, or NAV, and the dilution experienced by Stockholder A following the sale of 40,000 shares of the common stock of Company XYZ at $9.50 per share, a price below its NAV per share. Prior to Sale Below NAV Following Sale Below NAV Percentage Change Reduction to NAV Total Shares Outstanding 1,000,000 1,040,000 4.0 % NAV per share $ 10.00 $ 9.98 (0.2 )% Dilution to Existing Stockholder Shares Held by Stockholder A 10,000 10,000 (1) 0.0 % Percentage Held by Stockholder A 1.00 % 0.96 % (3.8 )% Total Interest of Stockholder A in NAV $ 100,000 $ 99,808 (0.2 )% (1) Assumes that Stockholder A does not purchase additional shares in the sale of shares below NAV. 49 TABLE OF CONTENTS Provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law and of our charter and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. The Maryland General Corporation Law and our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or make more difficult a change in control of Full Circle Capital or the removal of our directors. We are subject to the Maryland Business Combination Act, subject to any applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. Our Board of Directors has adopted a resolution exempting from the Business Combination Act any business combination between us and any other person, subject to prior approval of such business combination by our board, including approval by a majority of our independent directors. If the resolution exempting business combinations is repealed or our board does not approve a business combination, the Business Combination Act may discourage third parties from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating such an offer. Our bylaws provide that the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act shall not restrict acquisitions of our stock by any person. If we amend our bylaws to repeal the exemption from the Control Share Acquisition Act, the Control Share Acquisition Act also may make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating such a transaction. We have also adopted measures that may make it difficult for a third party to obtain control of us, including provisions of our charter classifying our Board of Directors in three classes serving staggered three-year terms, and authorizing our Board of Directors to classify or reclassify shares of our stock in one or more classes or series, to cause the issuance of additional shares of our stock, to amend our charter without stockholder approval and to increase or decrease the number of shares of stock that we have authority to issue. These provisions, as well as other provisions of our charter and bylaws, may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Risks Relating to our Notes Our Notes are unsecured and therefore are effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness we have currently incurred or may incur in the future. Our Notes are not secured by any of our assets or any of the assets of our subsidiaries. As a result, our Notes are effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness we or our subsidiaries have currently incurred, such as indebtedness under the Credit Facility, and may incur in the future (or any indebtedness that is initially unsecured to which we subsequently grant security). In any liquidation, dissolution, bankruptcy or other similar proceeding, the holders of any of our existing or future secured indebtedness and the secured indebtedness of our subsidiaries may assert rights against the assets pledged to secure that indebtedness in order to receive full payment of their indebtedness before the assets may be used to pay other creditors, including the holders of our Notes. As of June 30, 2014, we had $8.4 million of outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility. Our Notes will be structurally subordinated to the indebtedness and other liabilities of our subsidiaries. Our Notes are obligations exclusively of Full Circle Capital Corporation and not of any of our subsidiaries. None of our subsidiaries is a guarantor of our Notes and our Notes are not required to be guaranteed by any subsidiaries we may acquire or create in the future. Any assets of our subsidiaries will not be directly available to satisfy the claims of our creditors, including holders of our Notes. Except to the extent we are a creditor with recognized claims against our subsidiaries, all claims of creditors (including trade creditors) and holders of preferred stock, if any, of our subsidiaries will have priority over our equity interests in such subsidiaries (and therefore the claims of our creditors, including holders of our Notes) with respect to the assets of such subsidiaries. Even if we are recognized as a creditor of one or more of our subsidiaries, our claims would still be effectively subordinated to any security interests in the assets of any such subsidiary and to any indebtedness or other liabilities of any such subsidiary senior to our claims. Consequently, our Notes are structurally subordinated to all indebtedness and other liabilities (including trade payables) of any of our subsidiaries and any subsidiaries that we may in the future acquire or establish as financing vehicles or otherwise. As of June 30, 2014, none of our subsidiaries had outstanding borrowings to third parties. However, our subsidiaries may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, all of which would be structurally senior to our Notes. 50 TABLE OF CONTENTS The indenture under which our Notes are issued contains limited protection for holders of our Notes. The indenture under which our Notes are issued offers limited protection to holders of our Notes. The terms of the indenture and our Notes do not restrict our or any of our subsidiaries’ ability to engage in, or otherwise be a party to, a variety of corporate transactions, circumstances or events that could have a material adverse impact on investments in our Notes. In particular, the terms of the indenture and our Notes do not place any restrictions on our or our subsidiaries’ ability to: • issue securities or otherwise incur additional indebtedness or other obligations, including (1) any indebtedness or other obligations that would be equal in right of payment to our Notes, (2) any indebtedness or other obligations that would be secured and therefore rank effectively senior in right of payment to our Notes, (3) indebtedness of ours that is guaranteed by one or more of our subsidiaries and which therefore is structurally senior to our Notes and (4) securities, indebtedness or obligations issued or incurred by our subsidiaries that would be senior to our equity interests in our subsidiaries and therefore rank structurally senior to our Notes with respect to the assets of our subsidiaries, in each case other than an incurrence of indebtedness or other obligation that would cause a violation of Section 18(a)(1)(A) as modified by Section 61(a)(1) of the 1940 Act or any successor provisions, whether or not we continue to be subject to such provisions of the 1940 Act, but giving effect, in either case, to any exemptive relief granted to us by the SEC (currently, these provisions generally prohibit us from making additional borrowings, including through the issuance of additional debt or the sale of additional debt securities, unless our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after such borrowings); • pay dividends on, or purchase or redeem or make any payments in respect of, capital stock or other securities ranking junior in right of payment to our Notes; • sell assets (other than certain limited restrictions on our ability to consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets); • enter into transactions with affiliates; • create liens (including liens on the shares of our subsidiaries) or enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • make investments; or • create restrictions on the payment of dividends or other amounts to us from our subsidiaries. In addition, the indenture does not require us to offer to purchase our Notes in connection with a change of control or any other event. Furthermore, the terms of the indenture and our Notes do not protect holders of our Notes in the event that we experience changes (including significant adverse changes) in our financial condition, results of operations or credit ratings, as they do not require that we or our subsidiaries adhere to any financial tests or ratios or specified levels of net worth, revenues, income, cash flow or liquidity. Our ability to recapitalize, incur additional debt and take a number of other actions that are not limited by the terms of our Notes may have important consequences for you as a holder of our Notes, including making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our Notes or negatively affecting the trading value of our Notes. Certain of our current debt instruments include more protections for their holders than the indenture and our Notes. In addition, other debt we issue or incur in the future could contain more protections for its holders than the indenture and our Notes, including additional covenants and events of default. The issuance or incurrence of any such debt with incremental protections could affect the market for and trading levels and prices of our Notes. 51 TABLE OF CONTENTS An active trading market for the Notes may not exist, which could limit your ability to sell the Notes or affect the market price of the Notes. The Notes are listed on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol “FULLL.” However, we cannot provide any assurances that an active trading market for the Notes will exist in the future or that you will be able to sell your Notes. Even if an active trading market does exist, the Notes may trade at a discount from their par value depending on prevailing interest rates, the market for similar securities, our credit ratings, if any, general economic conditions, our financial condition, performance and prospects and other factors. To the extent an active trading market does not exist, the liquidity and trading price for the Notes may be harmed. Accordingly, you may be required to bear the financial risk of an investment in the Notes for an indefinite period of time. If we default on our obligations to pay our other indebtedness, we may not be able to make payments on our Notes. Any default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, including a default under the Credit Facility or other indebtedness to which we may be a party that is not waived by the required lenders or holders, and the remedies sought by the holders of such indebtedness could make us unable to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on our Notes and substantially decrease the market value of our Notes. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants, in the instruments governing our indebtedness, including our Notes, we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under the Credit Facility or other debt we may incur in the future could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. In addition, any such default may constitute a default under our Notes, which could further limit our ability to repay our debt, including our Notes. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to seek to obtain waivers from the lenders under the Credit Facility or other debt that we may incur in the future to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under the Credit Facility or other debt and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders or holders. If this occurs, we would be in default and our lenders or debt holders could exercise their rights as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If we are unable to repay debt, lenders having secured obligations, including Santander Bank under the Credit Facility, could proceed against the collateral securing the debt. Because the Credit Facility has, and any future credit facilities will likely have, customary cross-default provisions, if the indebtedness thereunder or under any future credit facility is accelerated, we may be unable to repay or finance the amounts due. We may choose to redeem our Notes when prevailing interest rates are relatively low. On or after June 30, 2016, we may choose to redeem our Notes from time to time, especially when prevailing interest rates are lower than the interest rate on our Notes. If prevailing rates are lower at the time of redemption, an investor in our Notes would not be able to reinvest the redemption proceeds in a comparable security at an effective interest rate as high as the interest rate on our Notes being redeemed. Our redemption right also may adversely impact an investor’s ability to sell our Notes as the optional redemption date or period approaches. 52 TABLE OF CONTENTS Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 