D. Risk Factors An investment in the ADSs involves significant risks. You should consider carefully the material risks described below and all of the information contained in this annual report before deciding whether to purchase any ADSs. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by these risks if any of them actually occur. The trading price of the ADSs could decline due to any of these risks, and an investor may lose all or part of his investment. This filing also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this annual report. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMPANY If we fail to accurately project demand for our products, we may encounter problems of over capacity, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as damage our reputation and brand. Historically, edible alcohol production capacity has exceeded actual market demand. Due to the rapid growth of market demand, we believe market demand for edible alcohol is likely to exceed production capacity in the PRC in the next few years. We have planned our expansion assuming a reduction in market supply based on the national industry policies to close “backward” smaller manufacturers with a production capacity of less than 30,000 tons per year (see Item 4.B, “Information on the Company — Business Overview — Regulation”), the halt in approvals for new corn deep-processing production capacities in principle, and the growth in demand for edible alcohol driven by the PRC Chinese baijiu industry. If supply of edible alcohol in the PRC is not in fact reduced or if the PRC government began to approve new production capacities or there is no, or little, growth in demand for edible alcohol as we have expected, we may encounter difficulties in selling our increased production capacity, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Shouguang and Daqing facilities have signed pre-sales contracts and letters of intent with major customers worth a total of approximately 90% of our total edible alcohol production capacity for the year ending December 31, 2012 that provide for minimum purchases equal to an aggregate of 340,000 tons of edible alcohol. However, these sales are made through monthly purchase orders similar to those placed by our other customers (see Item 4.B, “Information on the Company — Business Overview — Our Customers and Methods of Distribution of Our Products”). Purchase orders are typically placed on a monthly basis, and we take such orders into account when we formulate our overall operation plans. We project demand for our products based on rolling projections from our customers and customer inventory levels. The varying sales and purchasing cycles of our customers, however, make it difficult for us to accurately forecast future demand for our products. Our inability to accurately predict and to timely meet demand, or the failure of our 2012 contract purchasers to take up their contracted volume of our products, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to expand or to manage the expansion of our production capacity and growth could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and result in a loss of business opportunities. We plan to continue to expand our production capacity at our Daqing facility. However, we may be unsuccessful in the timely or cost-efficient expansion of our production capacity. This project and others may not be constructed on the anticipated timetable or within budget. Any material delay in completing these projects, or any substantial increase in costs or quality issues in connection with these projects, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and result in a loss of business opportunities. 9 Furthermore, we have limited operational, administrative and financial resources, which may be inadequate to sustain the growth we want to achieve. We have experienced a period of rapid growth and expansion that has placed, and will continue to place, strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. To accommodate our growth pursuant to our strategies, we anticipate that we will need to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and improve our accounting and other internal management systems, all of which require substantial management efforts and financial resources. We will also need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce, and effectively manage our relationships with our customers and suppliers. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort and skills and the incurrence of additional expenditures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to efficiently or effectively implement our growth strategies and manage the growth of our operations, and any failure to do so may limit our future growth and hamper our business strategy. In addition, in Daqing, we rely on the use of a government-owned rail station in close proximity to our Daqing facility to transport our products, including our planned expanded production, to our customers. Although we have not previously been restricted from its use, the government may prohibit our use of such station at anytime. If this were to occur, or if we were to lose access to the station for any reason, we would be required to transport our products to the next closest rail station by truck, which would increase our costs of transportation, have an adverse effect on our profit margin and inhibit our expansion and growth. Rising prices of our raw materials could yield lower margins for our products if we are unable to pass such rising prices on to our customers, which could reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business. The key raw materials used in the production of our products are corn and coal. Changes in the prices for these raw materials would significantly affect our cost of goods sold. In general, rising prices of corn and coal will produce lower profit margins for us if we are unable to pass such rising costs on to our customers. Whether we can pass such rising costs on to our customers depends on a variety of factors, including but not limited to corn and coal pricing and consumer market conditions. The price of corn is influenced by weather conditions and other factors affecting crop yields, farmer planting decisions and general economic, market and regulatory factors. These factors include government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade, and global and local demand and supply. The price of coal is influenced by a variety of factors, including market conditions, mine operating costs, coal quality, transportation costs, fluctuations in demand by other industry sectors, such as power plants, and the cost of alternative fuels. The significance and relative effect of these factors on the price of corn and coal is difficult to predict. In addition, although our supply contracts provide us access to corn at prices which we believe have historically been below the spot market price in the off season and times of high price volatility (due to crop failure and other factors), we have no contracts or derivative instruments in place that effectively hedge against the fluctuations in the price of our raw materials as our corn purchase and edible alcohol sales contracts are priced based on market conditions. Any event that tends to negatively affect the supply of these raw materials could increase prices and potentially harm our business. To the extent that we cannot fully pass on the price increases in raw materials to our customers, or at all, our business and profitability would be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to access corn of the quality required to meet our production standards, or if we are unable to obtain a sufficient supply of raw materials from our suppliers, or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. From time to time we may be unable to access corn of the quality and type that meets our production standards, which could adversely affect our financial performance. For example, if the corn is too wet or if the starch content of the corn is too low, we would be required to purchase and then process larger quantities of such lower-quality corn in order to maintain the same quality in the production of our edible alcohol, and such increased raw material cost, as well as increased energy costs of burning more coal in order to process the increased amount of corn, would reduce our profit margins. Furthermore, our extended inability to obtain and process corn of the required quality would also reduce our annual production. 10 If we experience a shortage in the supply of corn in the future, irrespective of quality, our production capacities and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We intend to source corn for at least five months’ demand in the non-harvest season of 2012 through framework agreements with local granaries in Heilongjiang Province (where we believe corn prices are the lowest in Northeastern China). According to such framework agreements, we engage the granaries to purchase corn from local farmers in order to satisfy corn requirements of our Shouguang and Daqing facilities during the non-harvest season in 2012. The granaries also store the corn for us and obtain loans from the Agricultural Development Bank(“ADB”), to carry out the purchase of corn on our behalf (see Item 4.B, “Information on the Company — Business Overview — Our Competitive Strengths - Corn Sourcing Arrangements”). If we lose any of these significant sources of corn through crop failure or through the failure by the granaries or the ADB to abide by the material terms of our sourcing arrangements, we would be required to purchase corn at less favorable prices which could adversely affect our profit margins. Also, there is no guarantee that we will realize savings through our sourcing arrangements since we are liable for the interest payments on the bank loans between the granaries and ADB and other charges by the granaries like transportation costs and storage costs. We may also have difficulty finding alternative sources of corn on satisfactory terms in a timely manner, or at all, which could cause us not to operate at full capacity. Identifying and accessing alternative sources may increase our costs and extended lack of raw materials will reduce production capacity which would have a materially adverse effect on our financial performance. We rely on a steady supply of coal to power our production facilities. If we experience a shortage of coal, our business could be adversely affected. We currently have relationships with nine suppliers of coal, however we do not have any long-term supply agreements in place with these suppliers and we cannot guarantee that such suppliers will continue to do business with us. In the event that our coal suppliers stop doing business with us, we would be forced to find replacement coal suppliers, or increase our coal uptake from existing suppliers, which could take time to locate and secure. If we experience any extended period of time without coal, we would need to obtain power from the local electricity grid, if available, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Risk Factors - Risks Related To Our Company -Interruptions with our coal-fired power-generating systems, whether planned or unexpected, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.” If we experience problems with our product quality, customer satisfaction with respect to pricing of our products or the timely delivery of our products, we could lose our customers and market acceptance, which would negatively affect our sales and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth and sales primarily depend on our maintenance of quality control, customer satisfaction with respect to pricing and the punctual availability and delivery of our products. If we fail to deliver the same quality of our products with the same punctuality and pricing which our customers have grown accustomed to, or in accordance with the terms of our sales agreements, we could damage our customer relations and market acceptance which will affect sales and our business in general. For example, as we advance and improve our methods of producing higher quality products such as Grade A and Grade B edible alcohol, it may become more difficult to maintain our quality standards at all times. Additionally, if we are ever forced to down-grade our edible alcohol, this could also affect the future improvement of our profit margins. If we experience deterioration in the performance or quality of any of our products, whether due to problems internally or externally, it could result in delays in delivery, cancellations of orders or customer complaints, loss of goodwill, diversion of the attention of our senior personnel and harm to our brand and reputation. Any and all of these results would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Governmental authorities within the PRC periodically set corn prices and enact general industry policies that limit production capacity and use of raw materials. A significant increase in the market price of corn as a result of such governmental efforts would increase our cost of sales, and we may not be able to pass those increased costs on to our customers. Such increased costs and other policy initiatives could limit our growth and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The PRC government has the power to intervene in the price of important types of grain (including corn) under certain circumstances, such as when a material change occurs to the market supply and demand and/or the grain price fluctuates significantly, in order to protect the interests of farmers. In practice, the PRC government will periodically purchase a large amount of corn from farmers and set the price for the corn purchased by the government, resulting in effective guidance of the market price by the PRC government. This has a significant impact on the market price of corn for the following year, but does not constitute a legally mandated price for corn. A significant increase in the market price of corn as a result of such governmental efforts would increase our cost of sales, and we may not be able to pass those increased costs on to our customers. Such increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The PRC government requires all producers of edible alcohol to obtain production permits which set forth limitations on how much edible alcohol we can produce per annum. Our Shouguang facility has a government permit to produce 160,000 tons of edible alcohol per year and our Daqing facility has a government permit to process up to 1,000,000 tons of corn, which can produce approximately 330,000 tons of edible alcohol. If our permits are revoked for whatever reason, or if the PRC decides to revise its industry policies to our detriment, we could be forced to curtail or cease our operations. Furthermore, in order to secure the supply of food and feed, PRC governmental entities set limitations on the use of certain raw materials. For instance, according to the 11th Five-Year Plan (2006-2010), the amount of corn used for deep-processing cannot exceed 26% of the total corn consumption as stated in the Guidance Opinion on Promoting of the Healthy Development of Corn Deep-Processing Industry announced by the PRC government. According to the 12th Five-Year Plan, the Chinese government will continue to impose strict control on the amount of corn used for deep-processing. Any further downward limitation may adversely affect our ability to obtain an adequate level of corn at favorable prices. In addition, the Chinese government has ceased in principle approving applications for building new corn deep-processing capacity. Our growth could be limited if we fail to obtain government approval for new capacity or to expand through acquisitions in other geographical areas. In addition, we could face penalties and other enforcement actions if our production levels exceed our approved production levels. The realization of any of the foregoing risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any interruption in our manufacturing operations or production and distribution processes could impair our financial performance and negatively affect our brand. Our production operations involve the coordination of raw materials, internal production processes and external distribution processes. We may experience difficulties in coordinating the various aspects of our production processes, thereby causing downtime and delays. We produce and store almost all of our products, as well as conduct some of our development activities, at our Shouguang and Daqing facilities. We do not maintain back-up facilities, so we depend on these facilities for the continued operation of our business. 12 A delay or stoppage of production caused by adverse weather, natural disaster or other unanticipated catastrophic event, including, without limitation, power interruptions, water shortage, storms, fires, earthquakes, terrorist attacks and wars, could significantly impair our ability to produce our products and operate our business, as well as delay our research and development activities. Our facilities and certain equipment located in these facilities would be difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead-time. Catastrophic events may also destroy any inventory located in our facilities. The occurrence of such an event could materially and adversely affect our business. Any stoppage in production, even if temporary, or delay in delivery to our customers could severely affect our business or reputation. We currently do not have business interruption insurance to offset these potential losses and any interruption in our production operations or production and distribution processes could impair our financial performance and negatively affect our brand. We have not obtained power generation permits for our coal-fired power-generating systems, which could result in the forfeiture of income and the imposition of fines. A new permit system was established in 2005 requires all existing and new power-generating, dispatching and supplying companies to obtain permits from the State Electricity Regulatory Commission. The State Electricity Regulatory Commission has been in the process of implementing the new permit system. By the end of 2008, the State Electricity Regulatory Commission had issued 6,170 power-generating permits. We believe we are to date in compliance with the relevant permit regulations, which required all of our plants to apply for power generation permits no later than August 31, 2008. We have submitted applications for power generation permits for all our existing coal-fired power projects, but have not yet received the permits. The granting of a power generation permit for an existing power generation project is a time-consuming and complicated process, which may in some instances require retroactive application of existing laws and regulations to existing projects that were constructed many years ago. As a result, we may not be able to successfully obtain power generation permits for our coal-fired power-generating systems. A failure to obtain a power generation permit may have a material adverse effect on our business operations, including the forfeiture of income and the imposition of fines. Interruptions with our coal-fired power-generating systems, whether planned or unexpected, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our production facilities require a significant amount of electricity in order to operate at full capacity. Both our Shouguang and Daqing facilities were designed and built to be self-sufficient in power supply through the construction of their own coal-fired power-generating systems. We are also connected to the national power grid at both facilities as a backup measure in the event we experience unanticipated interruptions to our electricity generation and for when we carry out our annual full-scale inspection and maintenance program for our electricity supply systems (see “Business Overview - Our Supply of Electricity”). In addition, we are in the process of undertaking construction project approval procedures, environmental impact assessments and completion acceptance procedures for our Shouguang and Daqing power-generating systems. In the event that we fail to obtain approvals from competent government agencies for the construction of our power-generating systems, we may be required to shut down our power-generating systems and be subject to punishment. If the power-generating systems at our Shouguang facility or our Daqing facility experience unexpected stoppage due to mechanical failure or regulatory action, or when we schedule our annual inspection of our supply systems, we must negotiate with the government for the purchase of electricity to be supplied through the relevant grid until our power-generating systems become operational. During such negotiations, we could be forced to accept pricing terms which are not favorable to us. Furthermore, such negotiations could be time-consuming which could cause a diversion of resources and time of our senior management personnel. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that there will be no interruptions or shortages in the national or local grid electricity supply or that there will be sufficient electricity available to us to meet our needs. There have been shortages in electricity supply in various regions across China, especially during periods of severe winter weather and during the summer peak season. Therefore, if either of our production facilities were to experience any significant downtime, we would be unable to meet our production targets and our business would suffer. Any disruption at our facilities would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Transportation delays, including as a result of disruptions to infrastructure, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends on the availability of rail, road and boat distribution infrastructure for the delivery of raw materials and for the delivery of our products to our customers. Any disruptions in this infrastructure network, whether caused by earthquakes, storms, other natural disasters or human error or malfeasance, could materially impact our business. Therefore, any unexpected delay in transportation of our raw materials or in the delivery of our products to our customers could result in significant disruption to our operations, including the closure of our facilities. Specifically, we do not have contractual rights or any other license to use the railways and rail station that transport our products from our Daqing facility. If for any reason we should lose the use of these facilities, we may not be able to find sufficient alternative methods of transport for products from our Daqing facility in a timely manner, or at all. We will also rely upon others to maintain rail lines and roads from our production facilities to national rail, road and shipping networks, and any failure on their part to maintain such transportation systems could impede the delivery of our raw materials to us and our products to our customers, impose additional costs on us or otherwise cause our business, results of operations and financial condition to suffer. If we fail to continue to develop and introduce new products and technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We intend to continue to develop new products and technologies to broaden our product line. The planned timing or introduction of new products and technologies is subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual timing may differ materially from original plans. Unexpected technical, operational, distribution or other problems could delay or prevent the introduction of one or more of our new products or technologies. Moreover, we cannot be sure that any of our new products or technologies will achieve widespread market acceptance or generate incremental revenue. If our efforts to develop, market and sell new products to the market and apply new technologies are not successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our operations are subject to various risks associated with our use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, some of which are toxic and flammable. If we are found liable for contamination, injury to employees or others, or other harms related to our use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We use, handle, store and dispose of hazardous materials in our operations. Our wastewater may contain toxins and our edible alcohol and methane produced in our operations is flammable. See Item 4.B, “Information on the Company — Business Overview — Environmental Protection.” We cannot completely eliminate the risks of contamination, injury to employees or others, or other harms related to our use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous material. Although we have not experienced incidents in the past, there can be no assurance that we will not experience fires, leakages and other accidents. In the event of future incidents, we could be liable for any damages that may result, including potentially significant monetary damages for any civil litigation or government proceedings related to a personal injury claim, as well as other fines, penalties and other consequences, including suspension or revocation of our licenses or permits or suspending production or ceasing operations at our manufacturing facilities, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we currently do not carry any insurance coverage for potential liabilities relating to the release of hazardous materials. Our use, production and disposal of hazardous materials subjects us to stringent environmental, health and safety regulations. Any actual or alleged violation of these regulations could result in significant regulatory actions, fines and other penalties, including suspending production or ceasing operations, substantial civil or criminal claims resulting in potentially significant monetary damages, adverse publicity and other negative consequences to our business. 14 Because we use, produce and dispose of hazardous materials and our production processes generate noise, wastewater, gaseous and other industrial wastes, we are required to comply with national and local environmental, health and safety regulations applicable to us. Except as disclosed in this annual report, we believe we have complied with all applicable environmental, health and safety procedures and measures. However, we cannot completely eliminate the environmental, health and safety risks associated with our use, production and disposal of hazardous materials and we may experience environmental, health and safety incidents at our facilities, including fires, leakages and other accidents, which could result in regulatory actions requiring us to take corrective actions and subject us to fines and other penalties. In some cases, we could be required to temporarily suspend production or cease operations while we perform corrective actions. Our operations are subject to various risks associated with our use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, some of which are toxic and flammable. If we are found liable for contamination, injury to employees or others, or other harms related to our use, handling storage and disposal of hazardous materials, our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Except as described in this annual report, we believe we are currently in compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety regulations in all material aspects and have all necessary environmental, health and safety permits to operate our business as it is presently conducted. However, if more stringent regulations are adopted in the future, the costs of compliance with these new regulations could be substantial. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental, health and safety regulations, we may be subject to significant regulatory actions, fines and other penalties, including suspending production or ceasing operations, substantial civil or criminal claims resulting in potentially significant monetary damages, adverse publicity, and other negative consequences to our business, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to the PRC laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with such laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected if we were required to increase expenditures to comply with any new environmental regulations affecting our operations. Our operations are subject to various risks associated with our use, handling, storage and disposal of edible alcohol, which is flammable. If we are found liable for contamination, injury to employees or others, or other harms related to our use, handling, storage and disposal of edible alcohol, our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected and our permits and licenses may be suspended or revoked by Chinese regulatory authorities. 15 Although we have designed and implemented procedures and measures to promote occupational health and safety, we cannot completely eliminate the risks of contamination, injury to employees or others, or other harms related to our use, handling, storage and disposal of edible alcohol. In the event of future incidents, we could be liable for any damages that may result, including potentially significant monetary damages for any civil litigation or government proceedings related to a personal injury claim, as well as other fines, penalties and other consequences, including suspension or revocation of our licenses or permits or suspending production or ceasing operations at our research and manufacturing facilities, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. The expansion of our sales and marketing and distribution efforts in new provinces and regions may not be successful. We plan to expand our sales and marketing and distribution efforts into provinces and regions beyond Shandong and Heilongjiang provinces in China, and have already commenced sales and marketing operations in Sichuan Province, Anhui Province, Jiangsu Province, Hebei Province, Jilin Province and Liaoning Province. However, our experience in the sales and marketing and distribution of our products in Shandong and Heilongjiang Provinces may not be applicable in other parts of China. We cannot assure you that we will be able to leverage such experience to expand into other provinces and regions. When we enter new markets, we may face intense competition from edible alcohol producers with established experience or presence in the geographical areas in which we plan to enter and from other edible alcohol producers with similar target customers. In addition, expansion of sales into new markets in new provinces will require the recruiting and training of a new sales force to market and sell our products in that region, the assimilation with the local business cultures of new regions which may be very different from the business cultures of Shandong and Heilongjiang provinces, and require a diversion of resources and time of our senior management personnel. If we fail to integrate effectively in new markets, our operating efficiency may be affected. Furthermore, because customers in new provinces may be far away from our production facilities, our profit margins may be lower because of increased costs in the transportation of our products. Demand for edible alcohol and government regulation may also be different in other provinces. Our failure to manage our planned expansion of sales into new provinces may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and we may not have the same degree of success in other provinces that we have had so far to date, or at all. Our production activities are conducted and will continue to be conducted in concentrated locations. Damage to or disruptions at our production facilities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, especially since we do not have any business interruption insurance. Our two operating production facilities are located in Shandong and Heilongjiang provinces, making our operations particularly vulnerable to natural and other disasters that may occur in those provinces. Operating hazards, natural disasters or other unanticipated or catastrophic events, including power interruptions, water shortages, storms, typhoons, fires, explosions, earthquakes, terrorist attacks, wars and labor disputes in and around these provinces could cause damage to or destroy our facilities or equipment therein. Any of these or similar events could significantly impair our ability to operate our business, as well as delay our research and development activities and commercial production. Our facilities and equipment are expensive and potentially difficult and time-consuming to repair or replace. Catastrophic events may also result in damage to or the destruction of inventory located in our production facilities. In addition, we do not carry any business interruption or other insurance that would compensate us in the event of a loss of this type. The occurrence of such an event could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 16 We rely on our relationships with customers with whom we have sale contracts, the termination of which could cause us to experience short-term or permanent losses that would have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Although during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, there was no single customer from which we generated more than 10% of total sales for any of our products, we do rely on our relationships with certain customers, mainly baijiu distilleries, with which we have entered into 12- to 36-month sales contracts for the sale of an aggregate 340,000 tons, or pre-sales contracts, worth a total of approximately 90% of our total edible alcohol production capacity of 380,000 tons in 2012. Additionally, during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, aggregate sales to our five largest customers represented 23.4%, 16.6% and 17.4% of our sales, respectively. If our relationships with our top customers terminate, or if our relationships with those customers with which we entered into sales contracts terminate, or if such customers decide not to abide by the sales agreements and fail to purchase our products thereunder, or if we are unable to renew our agreements to supply our products with such customers in the future in a satisfactory manner, if at all, then we would be forced to identify and negotiate with new customers in order to replace the lost volume of sales. If we find ourselves having to replace these customers, this may require a diversion of resources and time of our senior management personnel as well as a short-term reduction in our revenues, or we may not be successful in identifying and negotiating with new customers at all, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations and prospects. Our business is capital intensive and our growth strategy may require additional capital, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions, implementation of our strategy to expand our manufacturing capacity or potential investments or acquisitions we may pursue. We may need to sell debt securities or additional equity securities, or obtain additional credit facilities from banks in the PRC in order to implement our growth strategy or to otherwise meet our capital needs. The sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution of your holdings. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations. Financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any failure by us to raise additional funds on terms favorable to us, or at all, could limit our ability to expand our business operations and could harm our overall business prospects. We may undertake acquisitions, which may distract our management, may not result in the benefits we had anticipated and may have unknown risks and liabilities associated with them. Our growth strategy may involve the acquisition of new businesses or the creation of strategic alliances in the edible alcohol production business. These acquisitions could require that our management manage new business relationships, manage new facilities and attract new customers. Furthermore, acquisitions may require significant attention from our management, and the diversion of our management’s attention and resources could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Future acquisitions may also expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with (1) the integration of new operations, services and personnel, (2) unforeseen or hidden liabilities, (3) the diversion of resources from our existing businesses, (4) our inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset the costs of acquisitions and (5) potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees or customers, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. We may also experience some or all of these risks with respect to our recently acquired Weifang Great Chemical Inc., or WGC, and Daqing Borun businesses. For example, we cannot ensure that WGC and Daqing Borun have obtained the necessary construction project permits, fully completed environmental impact assessment procedures and obtained all the licenses required for their conduct of business before we acquired them. Failure of Daqing Borun or WGC to comply with the aforementioned requirements may cause us to bear the liabilities provided by relevant laws and regulations. 17 We will continue to incur increased costs as a result of being a public company, which will adversely impact our results of operations. We became a public company following the completion of our initial public offering in June 2010 and have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. Moreover, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act enacted in July 2010, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE, have imposed additional requirements on corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a result of becoming a public company, we have added independent directors to our board and adopted policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. See also the risk factor entitled, “As a company incorporated in the Cayman Islands, we may adopt certain home country practices in relation to corporate governance matters. These practices may afford less protection to shareholders than they would enjoy if we complied fully with the NYSE corporate governance listing standards.” In addition, we incur costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. It may also be difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors due to increased risks of liability to our directors under the rules and regulations. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these rules and regulations, and we cannot predict or estimate with any degree of certainty the amount or timing of additional costs we may incur. Although our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition reflected in our consolidated financial statements include all of the expenses allocable to our business, because of the additional administrative and financial obligations associated with operating as a publicly traded company, they may not be indicative of the results of operations that we would have achieved had we operated as a public entity for all periods presented or of future results that we may achieve as a publicly traded company with our current holding company structure. Such variations may be material to our business. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC, and the failure to establish such controls could have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our ADSs. The PRC has only recently begun to adopt the management, legal and financial reporting concepts and practices with which investors in the United States are familiar. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining employees in China who have the experience necessary to implement the kind of management, legal and financial controls that are expected of a United States public company. If we cannot establish such controls, or if such deficiencies persist, we may experience difficulty in collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet U.S. standards. The failure to establish such controls could also result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls, which could impact the reliability of our financial statements. Any such deficiencies, weaknesses or lack of compliance could have a materially adverse effect on our business and the public announcement of such deficiencies could adversely impact the price of our ADSs. 18 We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal control over financial reporting. We are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on our internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports. In addition, if we become an accelerated filer or a large accelerated filer for purposes of a future annual report, we will be required to include in such annual report a report of our independent registered public accounting firm that attests to and reports on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as well as the operating effectiveness of our internal controls. Our management may conclude that our internal controls over our financial reporting are not effective. Even if our management concludes that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may, if we are required to include an attestation report from them, still decline to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. In connection with the audit of our financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31 2007, 2008 and 2009 our auditors identified four “reportable conditions” as that term is defined under standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”), in our internal accounting controls. These reportable conditions, which do not qualify as material weakness, related to our lack of a computerized financial accounting information system to record and process our financial transactions, a need to improve the timely recording and processing of our business transactions, lack of formal documentation to document and validate that management has performed periodic financial analysis and failure to set up and carry out the budget and management control in the overall operation systematically. We have made improvements in light of the above reportable conditions by deploying a computerized financial accounting system to do the book-keeping, recording and processing business transactions in a timely manner, setting up procedures to make annual and monthly budget and perform periodic financial analysis. We can provide no assurance that we will continue to be in compliance with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404 or that we will, if required, receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we are unable, if required, to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Any of these possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our reporting processes, which could adversely affect the trading price of the ADSs. Unauthorized use of our Borun wet process patent of invention by third parties and the expenses incurred in protecting such patent may adversely affect our business. We regard our Borun wet process patent of invention and our “Borun” trademark as important to our business. In January 2012 the State Intellectual Property Office awarded a patent to us for the Borun wet process, our proprietary manufacturing method. We believe we are the only corn-based edible alcohol producer in China using the Borun wet process and the market recognizes our brand name products. Infringements of relevant intellectual property rights may reduce our revenues and harm our reputation. We rely on intellectual property laws and contractual arrangements with our key employees and certain of our customers and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Policing unauthorized use of intellectual property is difficult and expensive, as are the steps necessary to prevent the misappropriation or infringement of our technology or trademark. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our Borun wet process method without authorization or sell their products under our “Borun” trademark. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in many industries in China are uncertain and still evolving and may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement procedures in the United States. Moreover, we may not prevail in any litigation that we undertake to enforce our intellectual property rights, and such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management resources. Our failure to adequately maintain and protect our intellectual property rights could lead to the loss of a competitive advantage or otherwise impair our ability to operate our business. 19 Our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our ability to obtain financing, may be adversely affected by a downturn in the global or Chinese economy. The global financial markets have experienced significant disruptions since 2008 and the effect of the crisis has persisted through 2009 and 2010, and to a lesser extent in 2011. China’s economy has also faced challenges. To the extent that there have been improvements in some areas, it is uncertain whether such recovery is sustainable. The corn-based edible alcohol industry may be sensitive to economic downturns, and the macroeconomic environment in China may affect our business and prospects. A prolonged slowdown in China’s economy may lead to a reduced level of corn-based edible alcohol purchases which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, a slowdown in the global or China’s economy or the recurrence of any financial disruptions may have a material and adverse impact on financing available to us. The weakness in the economy could erode investors’ confidence, which constitutes the basis of the credit markets. The recent financial turmoil affecting the financial markets and banking system may significantly restrict our ability to obtain financing in the capital markets or from financial institutions on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Although we are uncertain about the extent to which the recent global financial and economic crisis and slowdown of China’s economy may impact our business in the short term and long term, there is a risk that our business, results of operations and prospects will be materially and adversely affected by any ongoing global economic downturn or slowdown in China’s economy. We are dependent upon our existing management, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future performance depends substantially on the continued services of our executive officers, most notably our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Jinmiao Wang. If one or more of our executive officers are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we might not be able to replace them easily or at all. In addition, we do not have any key person insurance on the lives of such individuals and the loss of any of their services could materially and adversely affect us. If any of our executive officers joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose know-how, key professionals and staff members as well as customers. These executive officers could develop products that could compete with and take market share away from us. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with us, each of which contain non-competition provisions. However, if any dispute arises between our executive officers and us, these non-competition provisions may not be enforceable in China. If any of the foregoing were to happen, our competitive position and business prospects may be materially and adversely affected. One of our shareholders has significant control over the outcome of our shareholder votes. One shareholder, King River Holding Limited, or King River, beneficially owns 56.4% of our outstanding equity interests as of the date of this annual report. Accordingly, King River has significant control over the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors, mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership in our ordinary shares by King River will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. Covenants in certain PRC loan agreements entered into by Shandong Borun Industrial Co., Ltd, or Shandong Borun, and Daqing Borun restrict our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions, which may cause disruption in our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Shandong Borun and Daqing Borun have entered into PRC loan agreements with banks in the PRC which contain various covenants that may limit our discretion in operating the business of our operating subsidiaries. Our lenders have rights that include the following: ·restricting us from using the loan for a purpose other than the one stated in the agreement; ·restricting us during the term of the loan from undertaking any shareholding change or restructuring without obtaining prior approval of the lender; ·restricting us from undertaking mergers and acquisitions or any other joint venture arrangement without prior approval of the lender; ·restricting us from undertaking withdraw of capital, asset transfer, or equity transfer; and ·restricting us from undertaking major investment, asset transfer, leasing, pledging or mortgaging its assets without obtaining prior approval of the lender. 20 As of December 31, 2011, a short-term bank loan of RMB10,000,000 ($1,587,075) from Agricultural Development Bank of China were secured by our equipment with total carrying value of RMB46,339,787 ($7,354,471). A short-term bank loan of RMB70,000,000 ($11,109,524) from Agricultural Development Bank of China and a short-term loan of RMB30,000,000 ($4,761,225) from Longjiang Commercial Bank were secured by third-party guarantors, pursuant to these loan agreements, we granted security interest in its buildings and land-use rights to the third-party guarantors with total carrying values of RMB8,454,748 ($1,341,832) and RMB14,570,866 ($2,312,506) , respectively. The remaining short term loans from Agricultural Development Bank of China amounting to RMB52,500,000 ($8,332,143) were credit loan and all the short- term loans of RMB132,500,000 ($21,028,742) from Agricultural Development Bank of China were secured by the Chief Executive Officer, Mr.Jinmiao Wang simultaneously. A short- term bank loan of RMB28,000,000 ($4,443,810) from Industrial & Commercial Bank of China were secured by our accounts receivables amount to RMB29,196,300 ($4,633,671 ). A short -term bank loan of RMB20,000,000 ($3,174,150) from Industrial & Commercial Bank of China were secured by the raw materials amount to RMB35,389,200($5,616,531). A short-term bank loan of RMB65,000,000 ($10,315,987) from Longjiang Bank and a short-term loan of RMB70,000,000 ($11,109,524 ) from China Construction Bank were secured by our subsidiary Shandong Borun Industry Co.,Ltd. The remaining short-term bank borrowings of RMB163,200,000 ($25,901,062) were secured by third party guarantees. These restrictions on our business may cause disruption in our business operations. Our lenders may restrict us from disposing of or restructuring the ownership of our operation facilities and limit our ability to undertake any acquisition or major investment. If we should fail to obtain their approval for any such transaction, we must give timely notice of the transaction. However, the lender may still have the right to rescind the loan which may materially and adversely affect our future prospects and results of operations. Our operating results for a particular period could fall below our expectations or the expectations of investors or research analysts, resulting in a decrease in the price of our ADSs. Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period as a result of factors beyond our control, such as the recent slowdown in China’s economic growth caused in part by the recent severe global crisis in the financial services and credit markets, and may be difficult to predict for any given period. Our past results may not be indicative of our future performance. If our operating results for any period fall below our expectations or the expectations of investors or research analysts, the price of our ADSs is likely to decrease. As a company incorporated in the Cayman Islands, we may adopt certain home country practices in relation to corporate governance matters. These practices may afford less protection to shareholders than they would enjoy if we complied fully with the NYSE corporate governance listing standards. As a non-U.S. company with shares listed on the NYSE, we are subject to the NYSE corporate governance listing standards. However, in reliance on Section 303A.00 of the NYSE Listed Company Manual, which permits a foreign private issuer to follow the corporate governance practices of its home country, we may adopt certain corporate governance practices that differ significantly from the NYSE corporate governance listing standards. For example, we may include non-independent directors as members of our compensation committee and nominating and corporate governance committee, and our independent directors may not hold regularly scheduled meetings at which only independent directors are present. Such home country practice differs from the NYSE corporate governance listing standards, because there are no specific provisions under the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands imposing such requirements. Accordingly, executive directors, who may also be our major shareholders or representatives of our major shareholders, may have greater power to make or influence major decisions than they would if we complied with all the NYSE corporate governance listing standards. While we may adopt certain practices that are in compliance with the laws of the Cayman Islands, such practices may differ from more stringent requirements imposed by the NYSE Listed Company Manual and as such, our shareholders may be afforded less protection under Cayman Islands law than they would under the NYSE rules applicable to U.S. domestic issuers. As a foreign private issuer we are exempt under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, from providing certain disclosure. As a result our shareholders may be afforded less protection than they would enjoy if we were a U.S. company. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt under the Exchange Act from, among other things, the rules prescribing the furnishing and content of proxy statements. In addition, our executive officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. Further, we are not required under the Exchange Act to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act. As a result, our shareholders may be afforded less protection than they would under the Exchange Act rules applicable to U.S. domestic issuers. 21 RISKS RELATED TO OPERATING IN CHINA All of our assets are located in China and all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are subject to economic, political and legal developments in China generally and by continued economic growth in China as a whole. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. After decades of centralized control, China only recently has permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities and, as a result, we are dependent on our relationship with the local government in the provinces in which we operate our business. The Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. These actions, as well as future actions and policies of the PRC government, could materially affect general economic conditions in China and our business and operations. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, production permits, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. Except as otherwise disclosed in this annual report, we believe our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of these jurisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry developments by imposing industrial policies, any of which could adversely impact our business. Adverse changes in PRC economic and political policies could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our business. Our operating business is based in China and all of our sales are made in China. As such, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China generally and by continued economic growth in China as a whole. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many aspects, including the: ·level of government involvement; ·level of development; 22 ·growth rate; ·level and control of capital investment; ·control of foreign exchange; and ·allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past three decades, the growth has been uneven geographically, among various sectors of the economy and during different periods. We cannot assure you that the Chinese economy will continue to grow or to do so at the pace that has prevailed in recent years, or that if there is growth, such growth will be steady and uniform. In addition, if there is a slowdown, such slowdown could have a negative effect on our business. For example, the Chinese economy experienced high inflation in the second half of 2007 and the first half of 2008. China’s consumer price index increased by 7.0% during the nine months ended September 30, 2008 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. To combat inflation and prevent the economy from overheating, the PRC government adopted a number of tightening macroeconomic measures and monetary policies. Due in part to the impact of the global crisis in financial services and credit markets and other factors, the growth rate of China’s gross domestic product as measured against the same period of the previous year decreased to 7.1% in the first half of 2009, down from 10.4% in the first half of 2008. Beginning in September 2008, among other measures, the PRC government began to loosen macroeconomic measures and monetary policies, including reducing interest rates and decreasing the statutory reserve rates for banks. In addition, in November 2008 the PRC government announced an economic stimulus package in the amount of $586 billion. However, since 2010, the PBOC has begun to increase the statutory reserve ratio and interest rate in response to rapid domestic growth, which may have a negative impact on the stability of China’s economy. It is unclear whether the PRC economic policies will be effective in sustaining stable economic growth in the future. Although the Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China are still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the Chinese government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business. We may become subject to People’s Republic of China taxation on our worldwide income, which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial results and might result in you becoming subject to withholding taxes on any dividends we may declare. The newly enacted PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and the implementation regulations thereunder (which we collectively refer to as the “EIT Law”) became effective as of January 1, 2008. The EIT Law provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to their worldwide income. Currently, uncertainty exists regarding the interpretation and implementation of the EIT Law, and as a result it is uncertain whether we will be deemed to be a PRC resident enterprise. Therefore, although substantially all of our operational management is currently based in the PRC, it is unclear whether PRC tax authorities would require (or permit) us to be treated as a PRC resident enterprise. Under the EIT Law, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of shares (including ADSs) by such investors is also subject to 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. If we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” dividends we pay with respect to our ADSs, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, may be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and may be subject to PRC tax. It is also unclear whether, if we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” holders of our ordinary shares or ADSs might be able to claim the benefit of income tax treaties entered into between China and other countries, including the United States. “Item 10.E. Additional Information — Taxation — People’s Republic of China Taxation” Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. We conduct substantially all of our operations through companies established in the PRC. Our principal operating subsidiaries located in China are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes and their interpretation by the Supreme People’s Court. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involves uncertainties. We cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, the preemption of local regulations by national laws, or the overturn of local government’s decisions by the higher level government. Furthermore, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules, some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all and may have retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of any of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any administrative and court proceedings in China may be protracted, resulting in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 23 Fluctuations in the value of RMB will affect the amount of the value of, and dividends payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency terms. The value of RMB depends, to a large extent, on China’s domestic and international economic, financial and political developments and government policies, as well as the currency’s supply and demand in the local and international markets. For over 10 years from 1994, the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies, including the U.S. dollar, was based on exchange rates set and published daily by People’s Bank of China in light of the previous day’s inter-bank foreign exchange market rates in China and the then current exchange rates on the global financial markets. The official exchange rate for the conversion of RMB into the U.S. dollar was largely stable until July 2005. On July 21, 2005, People’s Bank of China revalued RMB by reference to a basket of foreign currencies, including the U.S. dollar. As a result, the value of RMB appreciated by 2% on that day. The China central bank allowed the official RMB exchange rate to float against a basket of foreign currencies, and the RMB has further appreciated significantly against the U.S. dollar. In July 2008, the China central bank established a narrow band within which the RMB could fluctuate against these currencies, the practical effect of which has been to re-peg the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation halted and the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. Since June 2010, the PRC government has allowed the Renminbi to appreciate slowly against the U.S. dollar again. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar in the future. All of our net revenues and most of our expenses are denominated in Renminbi. Any significant revaluation of Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in U.S. dollars. For example, an appreciation of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would reduce the amount of Renminbi we would receive if we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi. Conversely, a significant depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar may significantly reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings, which in turn could adversely affect the price of our ADSs. Limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. We did not enter into any hedging transactions to hedge our exposure to the risks relating to fluctuations in exchange rates. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners to personal liabilities, limit or eliminate our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, require changes in our ownership structure, or may otherwise expose us to liability under PRC law. In October 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued the “Notice on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Administration on Financing and Round-Trip Investment through offshore Special Purpose Vehicles by Domestic Residents,” generally referred to as Circular 75, effective as of November 1, 2005 and its implementation rules. The policy announced in this notice requires PRC residents to register with the relevant SAFE branch before establishing or controlling offshore special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, for the purpose of engaging in an equity financing outside of China on the strength of domestic PRC assets originally held by those residents. In the case of an SPV which was established, and which acquired a related domestic company or assets, before the implementation date of Circular 75, a retroactive SAFE registration was required to have been completed before March 31, 2006. In addition, any PRC resident that is a shareholder of an SPV is required to amend its SAFE registration within 30 days after any major change in the share capital of the offshore special purpose company without any roundtrip investment being made, such as any increase or decrease of capital, stock right assignment or exchange, merger or division, investment with long term stock rights or credits or provision of guaranty to a foreign party. Failure to comply with the requirements of Circular 75 may result in fines and other penalties under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Any such failure could also result in the SPV’s PRC affiliates being impeded or prevented from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the SPV. We understand that none of our shareholders prior to our public offering was a PRC citizen. Our PRC counsel advises that none of these shareholders is subject to the requirement of the SAFE registration under Circular 75. 24 However, due to the vagueness and uncertainty as to how the SAFE regulations are interpreted and implemented and the possible amendments or changes to the SAFE regulations, we cannot provide any assurance that our current shareholders who may spend a certain amount of their time in the PRC each year will not be required to make or obtain any applicable registrations pursuant to the SAFE regulations. The failure or inability to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject these shareholders to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit or eliminate our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or require changes to our ownership structure, all of which could adversely affect our business and prospects and prevent you from receiving any dividends on your ADSs. Furthermore, as these foreign exchange regulations are still relatively new and their interpretation and implementation has been constantly evolving, it is unclear how these regulations, and any future regulation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. For example, we may be subject to a more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the foreign exchange regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. We may face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to issue equity compensation to our directors and employees and other parties who are PRC citizens or residents under PRC law. In December 2006, the People’s Bank of China promulgated the Administrative Measures of Foreign Exchange Matters for Individuals, which set forth the respective requirements for foreign exchange transactions by individuals (both PRC or non-PRC citizens) under either the current account or the capital account. In January 2007, SAFE issued implementing rules for the Administrative Measures of Foreign Exchange Matters for Individuals, which, among other things, specified approval requirements for certain capital account transactions such as a PRC citizen’s participation in the employee stock ownership plans or stock option plans of an overseas publicly-listed company. On March 28, 2007, SAFE issued the “Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company, also known as “Circular 78.” For any equity compensation plan which is so covered and is adopted by a non-PRC listed company after April 6, 2007, Circular 78 requires all participants who are PRC citizens to register with and obtain approvals from SAFE prior to their participation in the plan. . In addition, Circular 78 also requires PRC citizens within three months after the issuance of Circular 78 to register with SAFE and make the necessary applications and filings if they participated in an overseas listed company’s covered equity compensation plan prior to April 6, 2007. We may adopt an equity compensation plan after this annual report and may make option grants to some of our directors and senior officers, most of whom are PRC citizens. Circular 78 may require PRC citizens who receive option grants to register with SAFE. We believe the registration and approval requirements contemplated in Circular 78 will be burdensome and time-consuming. If it is determined that any of our equity compensation plans fail to comply with such provisions, this may subject us and recipients of such options to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our PRC employees. In that case, our ability to compensate our employees and directors through equity compensation would be hindered and our business operations may be adversely affected. We have limited business insurance coverage in China. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited insurance products. As of December 31, 2011, we carried up to RMB1,592.0 million ($252.7 million) of insurance coverage, which includes coverage for certain of our property, plant and equipment and inventory and for employee injury. We do not have insurance coverage on our other assets and we do not have insurance to cover our business or interruption of our business, litigation or product liability. We have determined that the costs of insuring for these risks and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. Any uninsured occurrence of loss or damage to property, litigation or business disruption may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. The Renminbi is currently freely convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. 25 Currently, WGC may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions,” including payment of dividends to us. WGC may also retain foreign exchange in its current account, subject to a ceiling approved by SAFE or its local branches, to satisfy foreign exchange liabilities or to pay dividends. However, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC governmental authorities will not limit or eliminate our ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenues will be denominated in Renminbi, the existing and any future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China, if any, or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account are subject to limitations and require registration with or approval by the relevant PRC governmental authorities. In particular, if we finance our Chinese subsidiaries by means of foreign currency loans, those loans cannot exceed certain statutory limits and must be registered with SAFE or its local branches and, if we finance our Chinese subsidiaries by means of capital contributions, those capital contributions must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce or its local branches. Our ability to use the U.S. dollar proceeds of future financings to finance our business activities conducted through our Chinese subsidiaries will depend on our ability to obtain these governmental registrations or approvals. In addition, because of the regulatory issues related to foreign currency loans to, and foreign investment in, domestic PRC enterprises, we may not be able to finance our Chinese subsidiaries’ operations by loans or capital contributions. We cannot assure you that we can obtain these governmental registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all. The application of PRC regulations relating to the overseas listing of PRC domestic companies is uncertain, and we may be subject to penalties for failing to obtain approval of the PRC authorities prior to listing our ADSs in the United States. On August 8, 2006, six PRC government agencies, namely, the Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, the State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, or SASAC, the State Administration of Taxation, or SAT, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or SAIC, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, and SAFE jointly issued the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors (the “New M&A Rules”), which became effective on September 8, 2006 and was amended on June 22,2009. The New M&A Rules purport, among other things, to require offshore special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, that are (i) formed for the purpose of overseas listing of the equity interests of PRC companies via acquisition and (ii) are controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies and/or PRC individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of their securities on overseas stock exchanges. On September 21, 2006, pursuant to the New M&A Rules and other PRC laws, the CSRC published on its official website relevant guidance with respect to the listing and trading of PRC domestic enterprises’ securities on overseas stock exchanges (the “Related Clarifications”), including a list of application materials regarding the listing on overseas stock exchange by SPVs. Based on our understanding of current PRC laws and as advised by our PRC counsel, we were and are not required to obtain the approval of CSRC under the New M&A Rules in connection with our initial public offering due to the fact that (1) we were and are not an SPV and (2) the acquisitions among China High Enterprises Limited, or China High, WGC and Shandong Borun were subject to the PRC laws, regulations, rules and circulars related to foreign investment enterprises such as “Interim Provisions on Domestic Investments by Foreign Investment Enterprises” and “Provisions for the Alteration of Investors’ Equities in Foreign-funded Enterprises” instead of the New M&A Rules. However, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation, application and enforcement of these rules, and CSRC has yet to promulgate any written provisions or formally to declare or state whether the overseas listing of a PRC-related company structured similar to ours is subject to the approval of CSRC. Any violation of these rules could result in fines and other penalties on our operations in China, restrictions or limitations on remitting dividends outside of China, and other forms of sanctions that may cause a material and adverse effect to our business, operations and financial condition. 26 The New M&A Rules also established additional procedures and requirements that are expected to make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise that owns well-known trademarks or China’s traditional brands. In addition, PRC national security review rules which became effective on September 1, 2011 require acquisitions by foreign investors of PRC companies engaged in military related or certain other industries that are crucial to national security be subject to security review before consummation of any such acquisition. We may grow our business in part by acquiring other businesses. Complying with the requirements of the New M&A Rules and security review in completing these acquisitions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including approval from CSRC, MOFCOM, State Administration of Foreign Exchange and SAT, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, we may be classified as a PRC "resident enterprise," which could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our shareholders and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, an enterprise established outside the PRC with "de facto management bodies" within the PRC should be considered a "resident enterprise" and is generally subject to a uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on its worldwide income. Under the implementation regulations to the Enterprise Income Tax Law, a "de facto management body" is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and properties of an enterprise. In addition, a circular issued by the State Administration of Taxation on April 22, 2009 known as Circular 82 sets out the standards and procedures for recognizing the location of the "effective management" of an enterprise registered outside of the PRC and funded by Chinese enterprises as controlling investors. This circular specifies that certain PRC-invested enterprises will be classified as PRC resident enterprises if the following are located or resident in the PRC: senior management personnel and departments that are responsible for daily production, operation and management; financial and personnel decision making bodies; key properties, accounting books, the company seal, and minutes of board meetings and shareholders' meetings; and half or more of the senior management or directors having voting rights. Given that our Cayman holding company is incorporated and controlled by PRC individuals instead of PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups, it is unclear whether Circular 82 applies to us, and we are not aware of any clear guidance regarding the criteria pursuant to which the PRC tax authorities will determine the tax residency of an overseas company controlled by PRC individuals under the applicable PRC laws and regulations. Furthermore, we are not aware of any offshore holding company with a corporate structure similar to ours ever having been deemed a PRC resident enterprise by the PRC tax authorities. However, as the tax resident status of an enterprise is subject to determination by the PRC tax authorities, our subsidiaries all operate in the PRC and uncertainties remain with respect to the interpretation of the term "de facto management body" as applicable to our offshore entity, we may be considered a resident enterprise and may therefore be subject to the enterprise income tax at 25% on our global income. If we earn income outside of the PRC, the imposition of a tax on our global income could raise our effective tax rate and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise, dividends we pay to non-PRC resident enterprise shareholders will be subject to PRC withholding tax, and while our holding company is incorporated in the Cayman Islands, we expect that we would deduct the appropriate withholding taxes from any dividend that we paid. Further, foreign ADS holders may be subject to PRC tax on gains realized on the sale or other disposition of ADSs or ordinary shares, if such income is sourced from within the PRC, although procedures for the payment of such taxes do not exist and it is not clear whether or how the PRC government might enforce such taxes against persons who are not residents of the PRC. Any such tax may reduce the returns on your investment in our ADSs. Although our company is incorporated in the Cayman Islands, it remains unclear whether gains realized by our foreign ADS holders will be regarded as income from sources within the PRC if we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise, and it is unclear whether our non-PRC shareholders would be able to claim the benefits of any tax treaties between their tax residence and the PRC in the event that we are treated as a PRC resident enterprise. 27 We rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs. We are a holding company organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands, and we conduct all of our operations through our operating subsidiaries in the PRC. We rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our PRC subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to serve any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. Current regulations in the PRC such as the Wholly-Foreign Owned Enterprise Law (1986), as amended, and the Wholly-Foreign Owned Enterprise Law Implementing Rules (1990), as amended and the Company Law of the PRC (2005), permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. According to the laws mentioned above and the articles of association of our PRC subsidiaries, each of our PRC subsidiaries is required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profit based on the PRC accounting standards and regulations each year to its statutory reserve, until the balance in the reserve reaches 50% of the registered capital of the company. Funds in the reserve are not distributable to us in forms of cash dividends, loans or advances. In addition, if our PRC subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us, which in turn will adversely affect our available cash. Dividends payable by us to our non-PRC resident shareholders may become subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. The New Income Tax Law and the Implementation Rules provide that (1) if the enterprise that distributes the dividends is domiciled in the PRC, or (2) if capital gains are realized from the transfer of equity interests of enterprises domiciled in the PRC, then such dividends or capital gains are treated as PRC-sourced income, and PRC income tax at the rate of up to 10% is applicable to such dividends or capital gains payable to overseas investors that are “non-resident enterprises.” If we are considered a PRC-resident enterprise for tax purposes, any dividends distributed by us to our non-PRC resident shareholders as well as gains realized by such shareholders from the transfer of our shares may be regarded as China-sourced income and, as a result, may be subject to PRC withholding tax at the rate of up to 10%, depending on the provisions of any tax treaty between the PRC and the jurisdiction in which the non-PRC resident shareholder resides. It is unclear whether, if we are considered a PRC resident enterprise, holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares would be able to claim the benefit of income tax treaties or agreements entered into between China and other countries or areas (although we do not expect to withhold at treaty rates if any withholding is required). It is uncertain as to how the aforementioned laws and regulations will be implemented by the relevant PRC tax authorities. If our dividend payments to our non-PRC resident shareholders are subject to PRC withholding tax, it may materially and adversely affect our shareholders’ return on and value of investment in our ADSs. We face uncertainty from the Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax on Non-resident Enterprises’ Share Transfer (“Circular 698”) released in December 2009 by SAT with retroactive effect from January 1, 2008. Pursuant to the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises issued by SAT on December 10, 2009, or SAT Circular 698, where a non-resident enterprise transfers the equity interests of a PRC resident enterprise indirectly via disposing of the equity interests of an overseas holding company (referred to as an Indirect Transfer) and such overseas holding company is located in a tax jurisdiction that: (i) has an effective tax rate less than 12.5% or (ii) does not tax foreign income of its residents, the foreign investor shall report to the competent tax authority of the PRC resident enterprise this Indirect Transfer. The PRC tax authority will examine the true nature of the Indirect Transfer and, if the tax authority considers that the foreign investor has adopted an abusive arrangement in order to avoid PRC tax, they will disregard the existence of the overseas holding company and re-characterize the Indirect Transfer and, as a result, gains derived from such Indirect Transfer may be subject to PRC withholding tax at the rate of up to 10%. Circular 698 also provides that, where a non-PRC resident enterprise transfers its equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise to its related parties at a price lower than the fair market value, the competent tax authority has the power to make a reasonable adjustment to the taxable income of the transaction. In addition, the PRC resident enterprise may be required to provide necessary assistance to support the enforcement of Circular 698. 28 There is uncertainty as to the application of SAT Circular 698. For example, while the term “Indirect Transfer” is not clearly defined, it is understood that the relevant PRC tax authorities have jurisdiction regarding requests for information over a wide range of foreign entities having no direct contact with China. Moreover, the relevant authority has not yet promulgated any formal provisions or formally declared or stated how to calculate the effective tax rates in foreign tax jurisdictions, and the process and format of the reporting of an Indirect Transfer to the competent tax authority of the relevant PRC resident enterprise remain unclear. In addition, there are not any formal declarations with regard to how to determine whether a foreign investor has adopted an abusive arrangement in order to reduce, avoid or defer PRC tax. SAT Circular 698 may be determined by the tax authorities to be applicable to our private equity financing transactions where non-resident shareholders were involved, if any of such transactions were determined by the tax authorities to lack reasonable commercial purpose. Since Circular 698 has retroactive effect from January 1, 2008, we cannot assure you our reorganization will not be subject to examination by the PRC Subsidiaries’ tax authorities and any direct or indirect transfer of our equity interests in our PRC subsidiaries via our overseas holding companies will not be subject to a withholding tax of 10%. Our certificates, permits and licenses related to our operations are subject to governmental control and renewal, and failure to obtain such certificates, permits and licenses or their renewals will cause all or part of our operations to be terminated. Our operations require licenses, permits and in some cases renewals of these licenses and permits from various governmental authorities within the PRC. Our ability to obtain, sustain or renew such licenses and permits on acceptable terms is subject to change, as, among other things, the regulations and policies of applicable governmental authorities may change. If these permits expire without renewal, we may not be allowed to operate our business for an extended period of time, or our operations may cease entirely. Our inability to obtain, the loss of, or the denial of, extension as to any of these licenses or permits may have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition and could result in our being required to cease operations, incur fines and incur penalties. If our land use rights are revoked, we would have no operational capabilities. Under Chinese law, land is owned by the state or rural collective economic organizations. The state issues to the land users the land use right certificate. Land use rights can be revoked and the land users forced to vacate at any time when redevelopment of the land is in the public interest. The public interest rationale is interpreted quite broadly and the process of land appropriation may be less than transparent. Each of our two facilities rely on these land use rights as the cornerstone of their operations, and the loss of such rights would have a material adverse effect on our operations. Labor laws in the PRC may adversely affect our results of operations. On June 29, 2007, the PRC government promulgated a new labor law, namely, the Labor Contract Law of the PRC, or the New Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. The New Labor Contract Law imposes greater liabilities on employers and significantly affects the cost of an employer’s decision to reduce its workforce. Further, it requires certain terminations be based upon seniority and not merit. In the event we decide to significantly change or decrease our workforce, the New Labor Contract Law could adversely affect our ability to enact such changes in a manner that is most advantageous to our business or in a timely and cost-effective manner, thus materially and adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to fully comply with PRC labor laws exposes us to potential liability. Companies operating in China must comply with a variety of labor laws, including certain social insurance, housing fund and other staff welfare-oriented payment obligations. There exist uncertainties as to the interpretation, implementation and enforcement of such obligations. If relevant governmental authorities determine that we have not complied fully with such obligations, we may be in violation of applicable PRC labor laws and we cannot assure you that PRC governmental authorities will not impose penalties on us for any failure to comply. In addition, in the event that any current or former employee files a complaint with relevant governmental authorities, we may be subject to making up such staff-welfare oriented obligations as well as paying administrative fines. In the past, we had been delinquent with respect to the payment of social insurance and housing fund payments. We may be liable for the payments and fines arising from such delinquent payments. 29 Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. If prices for our products rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies, it may have an adverse effect on profitability. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. We face risks related to health epidemics. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the effects of H1N1 flu (swine flu), avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or other epidemics or outbreaks. In April 2009, an outbreak of H1N1 flu (swine flu) first occurred in Mexico and quickly spread to other countries, including the United States and China. In the last decade, China has suffered health epidemics related to the outbreak of avian influenza and severe acute respiratory syndrome. Any prolonged occurrence or recurrence of H1N1 flu (swine flu), avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or other adverse public health developments in China may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. These health epidemics could result in severe travel restrictions and closures that would restrict our ability to ship our products. Potential outbreaks could also lead to temporary closure of our manufacturing facilities, our suppliers’ facilities and/or our end-user customers’ facilities, leading to reduced production, delayed or cancelled orders, and decrease in demand for our products. Any future health epidemic or outbreaks that could disrupt our operations and/or restrict our shipping abilities may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We face risks related to natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other events in China that may affect usage of public transportation which, in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other events in China. For example, in early 2008, parts of China suffered a wave of strong snow storms that severely impacted public transportation systems. In May 2008, Sichuan Province suffered a strong earthquake measuring approximately 8.0 on the Richter scale that caused widespread damage and casualties. The May 2008 Sichuan earthquake has had a material adverse effect on the general economic conditions in the areas affected by the earthquake. Any future natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other events in China could cause a reduction in usage of or other severe disruptions to public transportation systems and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR ORDINARY SHARES AND ADSs You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, we conduct substantially all of our operations in China and substantially all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands and conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entity. Substantially all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and a substantial portion of their assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that you believe your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, as amended and restated from time to time, and by the Companies Law (2010 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against us and our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which provides persuasive, but not binding, authority in a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, shareholders in Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in U.S. federal courts. As a result, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against us, our management, our directors or our major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. 30 We may become a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. Based on the projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets, including goodwill, we do not believe we were considered to be a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2011, and we do not expect to become a PFIC for our taxable year ending December 31, 2012 or thereafter, although there can be no assurance in this regard. In general, we will be a PFIC for any taxable year in which at least 75% of our gross income is “passive income,” as defined for this purpose, or at least 50% of the value of our assets (based on an average of the quarterly values) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of “passive income.” The determination of whether we are a PFIC must be made annually. Accordingly, it is possible that we may become a PFIC in the current or any future taxable year due to changes in our income or asset composition. Although we expect to continue to conduct our operations in a manner that will not cause us to become a PFIC, because we have valued our goodwill based on the market value of our ordinary shares and ADSs, a decrease in the price of our ordinary shares or ADSs may result in our becoming a PFIC. In addition, the composition of our income and assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend the proceeds of any debt issuance or other capital we may raise in the future. If we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which you hold our ADSs, you will be subject to special tax rules with respect to any “excess distribution” received and any gain realized from a sale or other disposition (including for this purpose any pledge) of our ADSs. Distributions received in a taxable year that are greater than 125% of the average annual distributions received during the shorter of the three preceding taxable years or your holding period in our ADSs will be treated as excess distributions. Under these special tax rules: the excess distribution or gain will be allocated ratably over your holding period in our ADSs; the amount allocated to the current taxable year will be treated as ordinary income; and the amount allocated to each other year will be subject to tax at the highest tax rate on ordinary income in effect for that year and that tax will be subject to an interest charge. In addition, non-corporate U.S. Holders will not be eligible for the reduced rates of taxation applicable to “qualified dividends” received from us in taxable years beginning prior to January 1, 2013, if we are a PFIC in the taxable year in which such dividends are paid or in the preceding taxable year. In certain circumstances, in lieu of being subject to the excess distribution rules, you may make an election to include gain on the stock of a PFIC as ordinary income under a mark-to-market method, provided that such stock is regularly traded on a qualified exchange, including the New York Stock Exchange, although there can be no assurance that our ADSs will be “regularly traded” for purposes of the mark-to-market election. If you make a mark-to-market election, such election is generally irrevocable unless our ADSs cease to be regularly traded or the Internal Revenue Service consents to the revocation of the election. Additionally, if we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which you hold our ADSs, you will be subject to special information reporting requirements. For more information on the U.S. tax consequences to you that would result from our classification as a PFIC, please see “Item 10.E. Additional Information — Taxation — United States Taxation — Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could discourage a third party from acquiring us, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunity to sell their shares, including ordinary shares represented by our ADSs, at a premium. Our articles of association contain certain provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our Company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our Company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preference shares. These preference shares may have better voting rights than our ordinary shares, in the form of ADSs or otherwise, and could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preference shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be diluted. 31 Certain actions require the approval of a supermajority of at least two-thirds of the members of our board of directors which, among other things, would allow our non-independent directors to block a variety of actions or transactions, such as a merger, asset sale or other change of control, even if all of our independent directors unanimously voted in favor of such action, thereby further depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium. The market price for our ADSs has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile, which could result in substantial losses to you. The market price for our ADSs has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors, many of which are beyond our control and which may occur regardless of our actual operating performance, including the following: ·announcements of technological or competitive developments; ·regulatory developments in China affecting us, our customers, our competitors or our industry; ·announcements regarding patent or other intellectual property litigation or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors or updates with respect to the enforceability of patents or other intellectual property rights generally in China or internationally; ·actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and changes of our expected results; ·changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; ·changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other edible alcohol producers; ·announcements by us or our competitors of new services, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital investments; addition or departure of our executive officers, senior management personnel and key research personnel; ·detrimental negative publicity about us, our competitors or our industry; ·fluctuations of exchange rates between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar; ·release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; and ·sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the securities market has, from time to time, experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. Any of these factors could result in large and sudden changes in the volume and trading price of our ADSs and could cause holders of our ADSs to incur substantial losses. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation against that company. If we were involved in a class action suit or other securities litigation, it would divert the attention of our senior management, require us to incur significant expense and, whether or not adversely determined, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 32 Future issuances of ordinary shares or ADSs may depress the trading price of our ADSs. Any issuance of equity securities could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders and could substantially decrease the trading price of our ADSs. We may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy (including in connection with acquisitions and other transactions), to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options or for other reasons. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. If we offer holders of our shares any rights to subscribe for additional shares or any other rights, the depositary may make these rights available to you if it is lawful and reasonably practicable. However, the depositary may allow rights that are not distributed or sold to lapse. In that case, you will receive no value for them. In addition, United States securities laws may restrict the sale, deposit, cancellation and transfer of the ADSs issued after exercise of rights. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, with respect to holders of ADSs, or are registered under the provisions of the Securities Act. We can give no assurance that we can establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to these rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have a registration statement declared effective. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise their rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights of our shareholders and may only exercise voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting in 21 days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholders’ meeting. You may not receive distributions on our shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. The depositary has agreed to pay you the cash dividends or other distributions it or its custodian receives on our shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. 33 You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed pursuant to an applicable exemption from registration and the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the costs of mailing them. The depositary is not responsible for making a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if any government approval or registration is required for such distribution. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distributions we make on our shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material and adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. We may need additional capital and may sell additional ordinary shares, ADSs or other equity securities or incur indebtedness, which could result in dilution to our shareholders or increase our debt service obligations. We may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our cash resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities or equity-linked debt securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 34 